EOWG:
Comments welcome through early Tuesday morning (January 23) US EST.
In our meeting last Friday we briefly re-discussing one issue regarding the
updated Quick Tips order.
For reference, the current tips text is at
We'd had an internal request for a small printing change: to change "map"
and "noframes" which are currently boldface, small caps on the card, to
boldface, lower case, since in XHTML it is incorrect to list element names
in upper case.
Turned out to be more complicated than expected. When proofing the new
version, it became apparent that differentiating the element names in only
one manner -- by boldface -- looked somewhat like a typo, in that it did
not stand out enough.
In our meeting last Friday
we discussed four options for resolving it:
1. add the word "element" after MAP and NOFRAMES -- problem is that it
breaks layout
2. drop small caps to lowercase and leave bold -- problem is that doesn't
stand out
3. change font for code-type -- monospace serif, such as courier
4. leave as is -- problem, internal dissension.
We decided as first choice to go with a code-font change, and if that did
not work, to leave it as is.
However I went over this with our printer &amp; with our internal
communications folks and got some new information:
- The code-font looked even more out of place.
- We got an internal rule-out on leaving the card as is, since it would be
inconsistent with XHTML which has been out for a year now.
- The printer managed to make the "element" word fit on the line, but then
we realized that by adding that word, we also needed to add a "the" before
the word before element (yet another ripple effect of a "simple" change to
the card). He then made a word-wrapping fit on the front of the card.
That's not to say it will fit on the translated cards though.
- He also pointed out that on the card itself, the boldface was quite
prominent, and therefore might be a sufficient distinction even without
small caps. However, other parties here felt that the language use would be
inconsistent without "element" on the card.
I know that some of you would like not to comment further on this. However,
if you do, here's the question:
- Please look at the following proofs (these are temporary URI's only!!!
do not bookmark!! and these are for visual inspection only -- the "alt" for
the cards is that one set is exactly the same as the text on the current
QuickTips page, and the other one has "Use the client-side map element and
text for hotspots" and "Use the noframes element and meaningful titles.")
- Any comments pro or con on the use of "the... element" on the card sets?
William's message on Saturday notwithstanding, unless I get strong comments
favoring "the... element" I plan to go with the simple boldface lowercase
"map" &amp; "noframes" only, since adding "element" etc seems to just
exacerbate the clunkiness of the card.
- Judy
Judy Brewer jbrewer@w3.org +1.617.258.9741 http://www.w3.org/WAI
Director, Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI) International Program Office
World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)
MIT/LCS Room NE43-355, 200 Technology Square, Cambridge, MA, 02139, USA
I prefer the card with "the ... element":
a) it reads better (i.e. slightly more grammatically).
b) to me it looks better with the last line of text on the front
side almost in line with the "over" arrow. It appears to make the
margin/padding uniform on all sides.
c) it is slightly more informative - there is a difference between
elements and attributes so why not emphasize that fact.
Having said all that, I won't stop handing the cards out if you choose to
go with the simpler fix.
Cheers!
Chuck Letourneau
Me too.
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
Judy et al,
Here is a strong opinion in favour of "the ... element:"
I greatly prefer the version containing the extra words. The two revised
points are much clearer than before. I happen to be reading an HTML primer
right now. When I read the new version of the Quick Tip card, I am reminded
that that noframes and map are "elements" (as opposed to "attributes,"
"values," etc.), and this reminder powerfully reinforces what I am learning.
To my ears, the extra words do not make the points sound overly technical; the
extra words enhance clarity and aid my understanding.
The inclusion of the extra words sacrifices only a little in terms of visual
aesthetics. Of course, it would be nice to have more white space at the bottom
of Side 1, but the new version is not unattractive. I don't find it clunky.
Maybe the printer can tighten the leading a little, but if it can't be done,
the polar ice caps are not going to melt.
I am willing to trust those who translate Quick Tips into other languages to
use their ingenuity to make everything fit.
Alan
Judy, I concur with Alan.
Lila
Lila Laux, PhD
Human Factors Engineering
Qwest Communications
1475 Lawrence St., Suite 210
Denver, CO, 80202
303 624 0503
