A simple task --- well not so
I start with a new document and ask to set up a textarea
Amaya requests action ??? I SUSPECT IT IS FORCING A FORM
WHICH IS NOT WHAT I WANT... it allows null ???
it then asks for name of control .... null is acceptable ???
but i now want to add style to the control ....
and the attribute menu item is a kludge --- one at a time
and none of the good ones applicable to textarea
and a jump in menu items .... the dialog should just be there
and with many attributes allowed at once.
i got to point where i looked at source view ... oh they stuck me
with attributes row and column set to THEIR values. but gee
doesn't everyone use style for this sort of thing now.....
As an xhtml editor Amaya is neither fish nor fowl. Perhaps if the
assertion about not needing html is removed from the Overview
page and the emphasis is placed on the complex situations that
Amaya is ideal for and in fact has no peer (mathml/svg/xml) i would be
much happier. I sure don't tell my students about it.
John Russell, VE3LL@RAC.CA
check HTML at http://www.htmlhelp.com/tools/validator/
check CSS at http://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/
check JavaScript at http://www.crockford.com/javascript/jslint.html
On Thu, 12 Jun 2003 11:00:41 -0400
I know the specification changed since we implemented forms
and now you can create an textarea outside a form which
can be handled by a srcipt.
This change will be done as soon as possible.
When you select the textarea the attribute menu displays
all attributes applicable to it.
It's what I tried to explain in my previous answer.
Irene.
Ir?ne Vatton INRIA Rh?ne-Alpes
INRIA ZIRST
e-mail: Irene.Vatton@inria.fr 655 avenue de l'Europe
I know the specification changed since we implemented forms
and now you can create an textarea outside a form which
can be handled by a srcipt.
This change will be done as soon as possible.
okay
When you select the textarea the attribute menu displays
all attributes applicable to it.
It's what I tried to explain in my previous answer.
nope IT DOES NOT
a fresh textarea has rows and cols attributes set to
someone elses preferences ... the attribute menu does
not display rows OR cols for access
(workarround is structure or source views i know)
and once again this is awkward to select one at a time
rather than a single dialog with all attributes sitting there
i also suggested as a right click from mouse so one
just needs to set focus on item and right click rather than
looking for menus ((attribute menu could be left as a redundant method))
anyways this is just my take of the gui ....
but i think your time should go to fixing things that are wrong first
then things that are unimplemented after 5 years in the spec (any ccs1)
----- just stick gui improvements on the wish list for later days --
John Russell, VE3LL@RAC.CA
check HTML at http://www.htmlhelp.com/tools/validator/
check CSS at http://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/
check JavaScript at http://www.crockford.com/javascript/jslint.html
On Thu, 12 Jun 2003 12:47:21 -0400
I guess I should explain how a structured editor like Amaya works.
It handles a document tree instead of a single list of characters.
By default the selection is set to a leaf element (a character or an image)
and you have to go up in the tree structure to select enclosing elements
with the F2 (or Esc on Unix platforms).
If you're not sure what element is currently selected, the bottom line of the
window displays the current selected element and its parents.
In your case, when you select within the textarea, the included text is selected
but a single F2 let you select the textarea, then you can change its cols
and rows attributes.
If the textarea is included within a list item, a new F2 let you select the list item
and a new one selects the whole list.
You can copy and paste this complete list into a new document or a new position
within the same document. If this list included links, they are automatically rechecked
and updated if necessary.
The structure approach allows powerfull edits provided the user accepts to work
on the structure level and not only on the characters level.
Irene.
Ir?ne Vatton INRIA Rh?ne-Alpes
INRIA ZIRST
e-mail: Irene.Vatton@inria.fr 655 avenue de l'Europe
