I've taken the liberty of culling from the lists of weblogs, magazines
and community servers posted today. You can find it here:
It's a rough job of cut and paste further chewed via Textile. I've tried
to clean up spelling problems, etc. and I've tried to add some value by
going to each of the sites and getting an impression of what it's about.
However, I admit I may have resorted to "easy humour" on occasion as I
got punchier and punchier with the work. For that I apologize.
However, the comments about legibility come from a boomer,
post-fifty-type guy with tri-focals whose eyes have seen many glories,
but are getting dimmer with age. You might take that to heart in
particular with respect to the more pastel of the text-color choices.
Neutral and desaturated text is also a major chore.
If you find errors, dead links, etc. OR if you have additional (high
quality with sustained content please) links, please forward them or put
them up on the list. In addition, the HTML (or Textile formatted) source
can be got for the price of an email request to yours truly.
...edN
Wow, great initiative! This is a wonderful idea :)
We should definitely try to make it as complete as possible, for everybody's
references :)
However right off the bat two things should be clarified :
Tristan Nitot - the webblog
URL should be pointing to new address : http://www.standblog.com/ , not old
Eric Daspet - looks like a project journal about the [re]design of the blog
site.
This is more like a Weblog on technologies and opinions. While it is
focussing on it's redesign at the moment, it is much more than that :)
Denis Boudreau
www.cybercodeur.net
This is a great start, but what I was eventually going to suggest is an
aggregator site (preferably on the W3C site since that is who benefits from
it). For the .Net world we have sites like
want to hook into the .Net bloggers. I was envisioning something similar
for W3C standards stuff. The problem with this approach is that not
everyone has RSS feeds, and then people tend to mix topics in their blogs.
What some of the .Net guys are working on getting people to use the category
support in RSS 2.0. This way aggregator sites can pull in only the blog
entries that are relevant to them. Mix all those blog entries with the W3C
RSS feed, and you?ve got a great standards evangelist site.
Don XML
Always listen to experts. They'll tell you what can't be done, and why. Then
do it.
I've taken the liberty of culling from the lists of weblogs, magazines and
community servers posted today. You can find it here:
It's a rough job of cut and paste further chewed via Textile. I've tried to
clean up spelling problems, etc. and I've tried to add some value by going
to each of the sites and getting an impression of what it's about. However,
I admit I may have resorted to "easy humour" on occasion as I got punchier
and punchier with the work. For that I apologize.
However, the comments about legibility come from a boomer, post-fifty-type
guy with tri-focals whose eyes have seen many glories, but are getting
dimmer with age. You might take that to heart in particular with respect to
the more pastel of the text-color choices. Neutral and desaturated text is
also a major chore.
If you find errors, dead links, etc. OR if you have additional (high quality
with sustained content please) links, please forward them or put them up on
the list. In addition, the HTML (or Textile formatted) source can be got for
the price of an email request to yours truly.
...edN
Help STOP SPAM with the new MSN 8 and get 2 months FREE*
Ok. Thanks for the mail, the comments and the trackbacks. I've
incorporated comments and suggestions and updated the post. I think I've
done justice to everyone's input; if not, let me know.
And...
Yes, it occurred to me that I was working "fast", but not particularly
"smart". I didn't mean to get in your way, Don. Apologies.
I wonder if this great aggregator idea doesn't need a bit more lead-time
and planning? For example, what I've posted is really not as "pure" on
the subject of standards as it could be; there is a mix of the personal,
the mundane, sometimes the bizarre and also the standards related. If
there were an aggregator, you'd like to have only the standards and/or
accessibility topics getting pinged through. That kind of leaves it up
to the individual blogger to organize the site in a compatible fashion.
Not impossible, but in need of some discussion. Have no idea how close
to this we might be right now.
W3C *is* the logical place to put the aggregator and if someone can push
some buttons to get that working, that makes a lot of sense.
Alternatively, there might be other venues. For example, the Internet
Topic Exchange (http://topicexchange.com/) is already up and running and
seems to be a self-administered utility. This might be worth a look. It
might happen more quickly and it might get more spread given it's a link
exchange venue that attracts diffuse interests.
What do you think Don?
Cheers. ...edN
Ed,
Your not getting in my way, whatever is best for us. I'm just throwing
around some ideas.
And yes, letting individuals make the decsion on what category an entry
relates to will not always work, but it is the best way for now. What the
DotNetWeblogs do is to self administer. Anyone that starts to cross link
just to get readers are warned, and ifit continues, eventually dropped form
the site. It is easier to say, than to do, but you got to eliminate the
"static", otherwise you'll get too much static, and people stop reading.
Don XML
Always listen to experts. They'll tell you what can't be done, and why. Then
do it.
Help STOP SPAM with the new MSN 8 and get 2 months FREE*
Like this:
--Kynn
Kynn Bartlett kynn@idyllmtn.com http://kynn.com
Chief Technologist, Idyll Mountain http://idyllmtn.com
Author, CSS in 24 Hours http://cssin24hours.com
Shock &amp; Awe Blog http://blog.kynn.com/shock
From: "ed nixon" .
Hi Ed,
This is great. Let me compare your list to one I have in html and see if
there are a few you did not list. Looks like most of the standards,
guidelines, and accessibility blogs are present, though I think I missed
seeing a few. Will get back to you tomorrow on this, and if I forget,
email me a nice note.
I need to make a collection of these for another purpose or two. So we
are going to be able to attack two situations with one task. [smile]
Thanks,
holly
The list is really good still looking for
Spanish, Italian, Chinese, Japanese, German, etc... Standards
related blogs. :)
Do you know some?
Karl Dubost / W3C - Conformance Manager
--- Be Strict To Be Cool! ---
I have both two lists printed and am going to combine to see where some
may be missing? If they are.
Then I will pop it up on one of my sites and offer the link, later
today.
I am also very interested in others that Karl mentioned...
holly
I don't unfortunately. Language-wise, I can stumble with Spanish and
probably Italian at about the same level I do with French.
However, I'm happy to set up and accept requests from all the linguistic
groups assuming I can figure out the encoding issues if there are any.
...edN
Macromedia Accessibility blog to add to the list.
[I am still compiling the two lists together between other work on the
sidelines]
holly
It's not a blog but a daily journal fronting a soon to be converted but
non-standards based site - and concerns web standards, accessibility and
field trips in Cornwall which we run every year (and this year's our eighth
annual bash)
If you think it worth it, include it. It is developing, so look and feel
changes on a regular basis. I've set it up after encouragement from my
students who are ripping the code off (with my permission and
encouragement) to analyse it.
John
John Colby
Lecturer, School of Computing, Faculty of Computing, Information and
English
Room F328a, Feeney Building, University of Central England,
Franchise Street, Perry Barr, Birmingham B42 2SU
