I am currently working on two sites, and want to make sure that I'm
accessible. I've run the tests and it appears to be so, but would like some
opinions as well.
The sites are:
with username visitor and password info)
Thanks for any input.
Nina L. Dillmann
Web Portal Development &amp; Design
Tarrant County Information Technology
Hi Nina,
Had a quick look at the first site which looked OK to me although I
personally found some of the text a little confusing. I have no idea who or
what IBO is for example. I also did find the sentence "For use with
prospects, clients and IBOs in the United States/Canada only." very clear.
Maybe it's because I'm for the UK but I have never heard prospects in this
way and it wasn't immediately clear that it was the site that was "For use"
with but I'm being very picky.
The second site however, http://www.appearancestrategy.com
http://www.appearancestrategy.com/ I didn't have so much joy with. I use
my own stylesheet which sets font size to 14pt (I know, shouldn't use pt in
general but this is purely for my own use and I wouldn't use it otherwise!!)
and with both IE5.5 and Mozilla the top right links are partially obvscured
and are only readable using my powers of deduction. It like the right hand
side of the words disappear under another "layer". Had a quick look at the
source and not being a CSS guru couldn't see anything particularly obvious
but this looked unusal to me:
style="visibility:visible;height:auto;z-index:1;position:absolute;clip:rect(
0,600,auto,0)"
Appart from not knowing what clip does I can't see why you would give the
div a class and then add more inline styling. Why not just stick with one or
the other? There could be reasons why you might do this though I suppose?
Also, I did notice that the font-size is set to 12pt which is accepted (as
mentioned above) not to be the best units to use. The predefined words
small, large,... I think are the best choice.
I didn't look at anything else and I only looked briefly at the above but
hopefully it will be of some use.
Cheers
Ian
I am currently working on two sites, and want to make sure that I'm
accessible. I've run the tests and it appears to be so, but would like some
opinions as well.
The sites are:
with username visitor and password info)
Thanks for any input.
Nina L. Dillmann
Web Portal Development &amp; Design
Tarrant County Information Technology
This email is confidential and intended solely for the use of the
individual to whom it is addressed. Any views or opinions presented are
solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of
SchlumbergerSema.
If you are not the intended recipient, be advised that you have received
this email in error and that any use, dissemination, forwarding, printing,
or copying of this email is strictly prohibited.
If you have received this email in error please notify the
SchlumbergerSema Helpdesk by telephone on +44 (0) 121 627 5600.
Hi Nina,
A brief look at the first site (http://www.carty-intl.com) noted the
following:
Contrast issues between navigation links and background image;
Increasing text size can result in overlap of navigational text-links
with text in background image;
Avoid beginning all text links on a page with the same word - this means
users navigating with a links list are unable to alphabetically jump to
an area of interest - begin the link with the most distinguishing
information as much as possible. (e.g. Feature Product list, all begin
with 'new');
Some text size is fixed (e.g. text in search result table);
Identical text links to different targets should be avoided (e.g. search
result for "baby food" is three text links of 'baby food' that go to
different targets);
Data tables are not marked up with headers (e.g. search result table);
Layout fails in NN 4.7
Lists not marked up as such (e.g. list of 'air treatment product' links
have no separator between)
Sofia
Nina,
I've taken a quick look at both sites.
The page looks fine except for the non contrasting link colors at the
top. When enlarging
the font size so I can read it revealed a few things. The links flow out
of the image t
the top and flow into the content earea. It also seems that the name of
the site and what it
delivers is in the image. Thereby the links and this text fall together
are aren't very
readable anymore.
This could be prevented if the background image of the page is seperated
into three areas
and made the background for a div tag. That is one for the links, one
for the name of the
site + what is sands for, and one for on the left of the content area.
The links at the right are a bit difficult to read due the colors
choosen. When enlargin
the font size the links at the right are hidden behind somekind of area,
and are not
so understandable when you see only the first 3 or 4 characters.
Also the text of the contents area flows out of the contwents area and
starts to overlap the
logos and ads at the bottom. This could be solved when the content area
would streatch itself
to be taller. This could maybe done using a couple of div tags with a
couple of background
images. But it may require a layout table to be able to keep the same
layout.
Christian Bottelier
