Date: 15 May 2000, 18:00 hrs
From: Eric Hansen
Re: Suggested Revision to Definitions of Control and Configure
I have been becoming uneasy with the document's distinction between
"control" and "configure" and would like to propose a revision.
Al Gilman's comment helped crystallize some of my thinking. He noted:
3. Question using control/configure distinction in setting minimums, here.
The forced distinction between "control" (i.e. adjustment through the UI
that affect the current behavior) vs. "configure" (adjustments that may have
to be done out of line with a use session, but persist) is unfortunate.
The strongest user requirement is that they be able to adjust the UA
behavior somehow. Whether it fits into the narrower categories of "control"
or "configure" as discussed above is secondary or tertiary, relative to this
requirement.
In the most usable implementation, and this is also quite common today,
there is not a lot of difference between the user interface to
current-session and next-session adjustments, aside from a prompt as to
whether the user intends the adjustment to be temporary/local or
global/permanent.
(http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2000AprJun/0369.html)
Instead of viewing "control" and "configure" as very distinct concepts, I
would like to propose a softer distinction wherein to "configure" is to
"control", but with greater emphasis on the persistence of the setting.
I am inclined to think that, generally speaking, we want the checkpoints
(especially the _minimum_ requirements!) to focus on control. We can
encourage configurability and the use of profiles, etc., but control is the
fundamental issue.
I am hoping that with this revised definition, some of the other decisions
that we are struggling with will resolve more easily.
Following is may fix to the definitions of "configure" and "control".
I invite comment.
Configure
In the context of this document, to configure means to choose, from a set of
options, preferences for interface layout, user agent behavior, rendering
style, and other parameters required by this document. This may be done
through the user agent's user interface, through profiles, style sheets, by
scripts, etc. Users should be able to save their configurations across user
agent sessions (e.g., in a profile). The range of available configurations
(e.g., colors, font families and sizes, sound quality, etc.) may depend on
system or hardware limitations.
Control
In this document, the noun "control" means "user interface component" or
"form component".
Control (and Configuration)
The term "control" is used in two major contexts in this document.
(1) governance, such as a user may exercise over interface layout, user
agent behavior, rendering style, and other parameters required by this
document. Such control may be exercised through the user agent's user
interface, through profiles, style sheets, by scripts, etc. The degree and
kind of control that is possible (e.g., colors, font families and sizes,
sound quality, etc.) may depend on system or hardware limitations. Control
that persists, especially across user sessions, may be termed
bold configuration /bold . A users may be able to save configurations
across user agent settings in a bold profile /bold .
Eric G. Hansen, Ph.D.
Development Scientist
Educational Testing Service
ETS 12-R
Princeton, NJ 08541
609-734-5615 (Voice)
E-mail: ehansen@ets.org
(W) 609-734-5615 (Voice)
thanks Eric and Al. I like the direction this discussion has gone, and
I especially like the new definition of "control"
I suggest a different approach. some things that are now not controllable
are setable and some of that subset should be controllable. I proppose we
use set to mean obtain persistence as in set font family and controll to
mean dynamically interact with or change. We need this distinction.
Hands-On Technolog(eye)s
ftp://poehlman.clark.net
voice 301-949-7599
end sig.
David,
I am a little concerned about trying to make individual checkpoint point
level more complicated and using them to tell developers what needs
persistence along with another functionality. I think if we use the word
control and put our persistence requirements in the configuration section
we will make the document much easier for developers to understand. If we
start to talk about persistence in individual checkpoints then we might as
well get rid of checkpoint 10.7, since it would be duplicating the
requirements in other checkpoints. I would rather see the emphasis on
control in other checkpoints and then use 10.7 determine what should be
persistent and use the minimum requirements in 10.7 as the means to define
persistent features required.
10.7 For the configuration requirements of this document, allow the user to
save user preferences in a profile. [Priority 2]
Jon
Jon Gunderson, Ph.D., ATP
Coordinator of Assistive Communication and Information Technology
Chair, W3C WAI User Agent Working Group
Division of Rehabilitation - Education Services
MC-574
College of Applied Life Studies
University of Illinois at Urbana/Champaign
1207 S. Oak Street, Champaign, IL 61820
Voice: (217) 244-5870
E-mail: jongund@uiuc.edu
WWW: http://www.staff.uiuc.edu/~jongund
WWW: http://www.w3.org/wai/ua
