I believe it would be beneficial to add a HTMLFormControl interface to
be used as a common ancestor interface for the form control interfaces.
This should have no end-user detectable affect from scripting languages
since the existing interfaces share identically named attributes.
However, it would allow strongly-typed languages to operate on the
common attributes of form controls without resorting to reflection.
For example, in JavaScript you could do:
var controls = form.elements();
for(var i = 0; i  controls.length; i++) {
controls.item(i).disabled = true;
But you could not readily do the equivalent in Java.
The interface could look something like:
interface HTMLFormControl : HTMLElement {
readonly attribute HTMLFormElement form;
attribute DOMString name;
attribute DOMString value;
attribute boolean disabled;
// these attributes are not currently in all form control interfaces
attribute DOMString defaultValue;
attribute DOMString accessKey;
attribute long tabIndex;
DOM HTML Level 2 is already a candidate recommendation and making a
change of this nature this late in the process is IMO not a good idea.
So that means that a change like this would be pushed to Level 3 of the
DOM HTML specification and even then this change would cause yet more
binary incompatibilities with older versions of the specification so we
would need really good reasons for making such a change in the
specification. I do agree with you that what you're proposing is a
cleaner design of those API's, but I don't think that making a change
like this now is a good idea, had this been thought of when the original
DOM HTML API's were designed then I would've been all for this.
jst
The DOM HTML is not widely used in Java, so we only considered the
improvement from a DOM ECMAScript perspective. The proposed change does
not add in fact a valuable improvement for ECMAScript users and could
introduce binary incompatibility in other bindings. Based on that, we
choose to leave the current proposal as it stands.
Philippe
[1] http://www.w3.org/2002/06/DOM-Level-2-HTML-CR-issues/all.html#curt1
