This registration request is revised from the previous request posted by me
on January 2nd 2002 based on feedback from the registrar, Harald
Alvestrand. The following changes have been made:
- "Additional Information" section has been updated to quote from the
Introduction section of UTR#26, specifically: "CESU-8 is not intended nor
recommended for open interchange".
- UTR#26 was approved by the 91st Unicode Technical Committee meeting as a
full Unicode Technical Report on February 13th 2002. The encoding was
structurally unchanged, the only changes being cosmetic edits to the
document. Based upon this, I have *not* added the requested notes to the
registration to state that the registration is based off a draft UTR. The
URL of the final UTR is unchanged from the URL referenced in the original
registration, and the final document will be posted by the Unicode
Editorial Committee shortly, upon completion of their final editorial
review.
I request that this charset now be registered by the IANA.
Regards,
Toby Phipps.
Toby Phipps
Director - Global Technology
PeopleSoft, Inc.
tphipps@peoplesoft.com +1-925-694-9525
--- Registration request follows ---
Charset name: CESU-8
Charset aliases: csCESU-8
Suitability for use in MIME text: No
Published specification(s):
Unicode Technical Report #26
"Compatibility Encoding Scheme for UTF-16: 8-bit (CESU-8)"
ISO 10646 equivalency table: See specification.
Additional information:
CESU-8 is an 8-bit Compatibility Encoding Scheme for UTF-16 (CESU) that
is intended for internal use within systems processing Unicode in order
to
provide an ASCII-compatible 8-bit encoding that is similar to UTF-8 but
preserves UTF-16 binary collation. Data encoded in CESU-8 should only be
exchanged when it is labeled as such in a higher-level protocol or is
agreed upon in an API definition. CESU-8 is not intended nor
recommended
for open interchange.
Person &amp; email address to contact for further information:
Toby Phipps
tphipps@peoplesoft.com
Jianping Yang
jianping.yang@oracle.com
Nobuyoshi Mori
nobuyoshi.mori@sap.com
Intended usage: LIMITED USE
IANA,
I hereby approve this registration.
Harald
Toby,
Apologies for not sending this out to you earlier. This Character
Set was registered on March 18, 2002:
Name: CESU-8 [Phipps]
MIBenum: 1016
Source: http://www.unicode.org/unicode/reports/tr26
Alias: csCESU-8
Please see:
Please let me know if anything appears incorrectly or if
you have any questions.
Thank you and best regards,
Michelle S. Cotton
IANA Administrator
Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA)
4676 Admiralty Way, Suite 330
Marina del Rey, California 90292
Voice: (310) 823-9358
