Dear all,
I had some talks with Massimo and Mark Nottingham here at the TP in
Cannes. I have interesting conclusions but I don't have a clue yet how
to formulate that in the specification.
1/ Discussion with Mark Nottingham
I discussed the attribute with Mark and the most important remark he
made was, that there is a very fundamental distinction between applying
the p3p-attribute on data contained in the element being send over the
wire and an interface description (like WSDL[1]). Mark suggests that we
only treat interfaces for the moment and defer the data-sending to later
(epal?) work.
2/ Discussion with Massimo
Before and after having talked to Mark, I've talked a lot with Massimo.
I found out that Massimo's but also Lorrie's approach correspond to what
Mark calls the data approach. In fact, they assume that data is
contained in the element foo xsd:p3patt="p3p.xml" bar Rigo /bar /foo
Now they claim that not anybody will treat that chunk of XML the way
as defined in p3p.xml when foo... is send over the wire.
But this makes the protocol assumption underlying to cc/pp and is the
flip-side of P3P. In fact it makes the protocol assumption that the
policy is sent with the data and constrains the recipient of that data.
This, in terms of P3P, is not possible, as it would mean one is sending
privacy preferences over the wire. We don't do that and it has complete
different semantics. So the only thing we know to do today is, that
if I receive -say- a WSDL interface description with a p3p-attribute
on it, I know that when submitting data to that interface, my data will
be treated in the way described in the P3P policy.
If sending data over the wire, it is like sending preferences (like
cc/pp does). Once we agreed on this, Massimo had no concerns anymore.
The issue is now to find a language to constrain our attribute so that
it could only apply to interfaces and not to data send over the wire. We
will probably also need some words to avoid the misunderstanding
described above (sending data over the wire) as it is most common or
even the preferred interpretation of most people.
I hope this might help Lorrie in drafting her proposal.
1. http://www.w3.org/TeamSubmission/2004/SUBM-p3p-wsdl-20040213/
Rigo Wenning W3C/ERCIM
Policy Analyst Privacy Activity Lead
mail:rigo@w3.org 2004, Routes des Lucioles
OK, I like the distinction between interface description and data. I
know very little about WSDL and other languages for writing interface
descriptions... would an interface description include some reference
to a particular entity or URI where the interface will be processed
(not sure if that's the right word)? I guess what I'm wondering is
whether there could still be a problem that a chunk of XML describing
an interface might be processed by multiple entities, including
entities that the one who wrote it is unaware of (and thus can't
anticipate when writing the P3P policy).
Lorrie
Lorrie,
the issue is that WSDL is using SOAP and qnames and like in the forms
context, several things can be sent to several URIs and there are
intermediaries. So yes, some things have URIs and some don't. It is a
simple question of granularity and complexity like in XForms.
If you can match a small chunk (field for XForms, interface for WSDL) to
a P3P Policy, policy writing gets much easier, matching of functionality
(required/opt in/out) will be easier etc... That's why I'm pushing so
hard on the granularity. It will solve a lot of issues.
For the data in a chunk of XML that is transferred, this can only
be solved with a concept like EPAL. (or a major revision of P3P).
Applying policy to data instead of interfaces is the ultimate level of
granularity.
Best,
Rigo
