At the IETF HTTP-WG it was agreed to form sub-groups on a number of issues
including Digest Authentication in HTTP. I would like to request anyone with
objections to Jeff Hosteltler's draft (now expired) to make them known in the
next three weeks - say January 10th?
I would ask Jeff to resubmit the draft so that we can know what the proposal
is.
To revise people's memories Digest authentication allows a user to demonstrate
that they know a password without sending it over the Internet in a form that
can be decrypted. It does require servers to keep authentication databases
which are sensitive in that any compromise to them will compromise their
security ass access codes. This is the best that can be done without using
public key however. The UNIX method of storing passwords means that passwords
have to be sen over the network in the clear. digest Authentication is
effectively providing Kerberos type security without a mediator.
There are a few outstanding issues:
1) Should we include a mediated form of the authentication?
2) Should we specify a mechanism for defining new Keyed Digest algorithms?
3) Is Kerberos integration a practical proposition?
4) The syntax of the WWW-Authenticate: field is peculiar.
We now have 2 entirely independent implementations, one in Spyglasses deployed
prducts and another in the Common Lisp Web server. Since both of those products
tend to get distributed on CD-ROMS there had better be a good reason behind any
proposed changes.
The mood at the IETF was that a subgroup go off and nail down the remaining
questions and get Digest Auth rolled out ASAP. Hence the need for comments
ASAP.
Appologies for not getting to this sooner after the IETF, I have been busy with
WWW4 which came the following week.
Phillip M. Hallam-Baker Not speaking for anoyone else
hallam@w3.org http://www.w3.org/hypertext/WWW/People/hallam.html
Information Superhighway ----- Hi-ho! Yow! I'm surfing Arpanet!
According to Phillip M. Hallam-Baker:
The expired draft is available at
There is also a digest authentication protected document there at
with user name "Mufasa" and password "CircleOfLife" which can
be used if you have a digest savy client. Unfortunately
that does not include Netscape clients. :(
John Franks
by popular request, we are in the process of resubmitting the draft.
it should be available tomorrow. i think jan 10 is a good goal.
i think we should leave these ideas for another authentication scheme.
the orignal goal of Digest was that we can do significantly better
than Basic with a near-trival set of changes. we went from practically
no security [uuencode("username:password")] to something with some nice
properties while retaining the existing (2 party) web-model. we were
also able to keep it free of patents and royalties and fully exportable
and (probably) importable. i think we should be happy with it as is.
yes, let's discuss this in the sub-group. whether we change the syntax
or not, there's a definite need to improve the wording and eliminate
some ambiguity.
FYI, NCSA, John Franks, and David Kristol also have implementations.
are there any others ??
jeff hostetler
spyglass, inc.
