All -
In rummaging around the Web attempting to cure my ignorance regarding
Document Management Systems, I stumbled across the AIIM site at
Management API 1.5" The URL for the home page is
I'm hoping that someone from this working group can answer the following
questions:
1) is this "standard" live? i.e., is the Document Management community
actually using this specification?
2) if the answer is yes, then I would suggest that it might be a useful
exercise to determine whether the extensions proposed in "Extensions for
Distributed Authoring and Versioning for World Wide Web" are sufficent to
implement the functionality expressed in this API.
Just a thought ...
Charlie
Charlie Brooks The OpenGroup Research Institute
11 Cambridge Center, 4th Floor Cambridge, MA 02142
Charlie Brooks
DMA Tech
ODMASPT
%From:Dennis E. Hamilton
%Date:November 8, 1996
%Re:Open Document Management API Version 1.5
Yes, the ODMA specification Version 1.5 is a brand new draft, ODMA is
vibrant and alive, the code for the connection manager was just distributed
by E-mail, and the organization is meeting today, November 8, in Boston, to
consider proposals around ODMA and the Internet.
I believe they are being encouraged to bring that discussion here.
ODMA has no versioning model or much presence of document management
functions. It is an integration model for bridging between desktop
applications that know content and DMS front-ends that know
document-management. As such it is primarily focused around the transfer
of document content (e.g., WordPerfect 7.0 documents, Excel spreadsheets,
and Netscape 3.0 templates) between applications and a DMS presence that
has the application be able to handle document identifiers as easily as
local (and remoted) file identifiers are handled now.
The dma URL that Judith Slein described here earlier becomes an ODMA
Identifier when it has a form such as
::ODMA\DMA\dma-url
Don't test me on the exact syntax. The ::ODMA is the discriminator that
avoids file-system confusions and cues the application to use functions of
ODMA rather than the file system to get its hands on and subsequently
return the material. All of the delivery of document material is in the
local file-system namespace and the application does not see anything to do
with distribution, and not much to do with versioning. (there are analogs
of Save and Save As ... basically). Most of what the DMS front-end and
system provide is opaque to the desktop application.
There may be expansion of the territory covered by ODMA as they move to
2.0, whatever it will cover. I just learned that the chairmanship moved
from Brian Phelps of PC Docs to someone from Documentum, here in the Bay
Area, so maybe they'll join us next week in Palo Alto.
Dennis E. Hamilton
From: Charlie Brooks[SMTP:cbrooks@osf.org]
Subject: Open Document Management API Version 1.5
All -
In rummaging around the Web attempting to cure my ignorance regarding
Document Management Systems, I stumbled across the AIIM site at
Management API 1.5" The URL for the home page is
I'm hoping that someone from this working group can answer the following
questions:
1) is this "standard" live? i.e., is the Document Management community
actually using this specification?
2) if the answer is yes, then I would suggest that it might be a useful
exercise to determine whether the extensions proposed in "Extensions for
Distributed Authoring and Versioning for World Wide Web" are sufficent to
implement the functionality expressed in this API.
Just a thought ...
Charlie
Charlie Brooks The OpenGroup Research Institute
11 Cambridge Center, 4th Floor Cambridge, MA 02142
I believe Kim Woodward is the new ODMA chair.
Unfortunatly, Documentum's worldwide user conference is in
Florida next week...So, Kim, myself (I'm one of the web
products engineers) and others will not be
able to attend next weeks meeting. There are a few others
who are not going to the users conference, so I'm encouraging
them to attend the meeting in Palo Alto. They say they'll
try to make it.
- Scot
Scot Malloy E-mail: malloys@documentum.com
Documentum, Inc. Voice: (510) 463-6827
Pleasanton, CA 94588 http://www.documentum.com
