I talked to Ralph Swick this afternoon (after reading the latest RDF
doc) and he told me their goal was indeed to be able to describe
things like dictionary type and structure from the link to the
dictionary itself (i.e. before fetching the dictionary itself). Is
wasn't clear in the current RDF spec and should be made clearer in
next version (he pointed me at the fact that RDF can assert anything
about anything, and a LINK is something).
He also thinks that dictionary themselves should be expressed in RDF
syntax, but that's another topic.
I think this doesn't close the issue really and we should articulate a
requirement proposal, rather than a solution, regarding the need of
pointing to accessiblity-relevant dictionary (like phonetic for speech
browser).
to follow up on what Daniel Dardailler said:
I agree we want to arrive at a requirement statement.
I still want some worked examples.
I believe that we need this because we are likely to be facing a
decision between asking for functions in HTML vs. trusting that
the functions are covered outside HTML. To make that decision
responsibly, we need one more level of investigation into the
alternatives.
Specific functions which would be good to cover in the examples:
- how browser recognizes that a dictionary is useful w.r.t.
an HTML document without explicit mention in document.
- how author indicates that a dictionary is to be preferred
for a specific use w.r.t. current document (, current entity).
- Repeat above two for stylesheets.
- how browser detects text resources associated with an
image.
- how does the author community converge on a taxonomy for
distinguishing different text resources associated with the
same image in a widely-recognized way?
I see this as an action item which could be performed outside the
HC working group in response to a request from the HC working
group. If we don't do it in HTML because RDF does it for us, we
will probably need to put "How to do it in RDF" in the Guidelines
for site managers and browsers.
I don't know who should lead the work.
I believe that there needs to be a team because we need to cover the
following classes of expertise:
- RDF expertise
- HTTP expertise including the new Internet-Draft on Alternative
indications (headers)
- Someone with in-depth knowledge of accessibility requirements
including experience using some non-GUI browse mode.
I will wait 24 hours for more comments here before I try to precipitate
this activity elsewhere.
-- Al
Essentially, we need to decide whether RDF will provide an optimal
solution, or whether it would still be preferable to pursue changes to the
reserved link types in HTML. If this working group opts for RDF, as I
think is likely, then the task of working out the details could be added
to the list of action items for the FP working group. How far is the RDF
specification from being completed and submitted as a proposed
recommendation? Obviously it should be reviewed by the FP group at some
stage prior to becoming a standard, and perhaps the dictionary
requirements could be considered as part of such a process.
to follow up on what Daniel Dardailler said:
I agree we want to arrive at a requirement statement.
I still want some worked examples.
- how browser recognizes that a dictionary is useful w.r.t.
an HTML document without explicit mention in document.
DP: Suggest we tackle this on a default then priority basis.
1. Default, left to stylesheet to determine (since the
stylesheet
knows the 'customer' capability -e.g. I am clever, I can deal with
this through to I don't know what to do with this, help me browser.
2. Author intent. I would like the reader to use dictionary X,
knowing from the content the difficulties that may arise
3. Browser does its best.
- how author indicates that a dictionary is to be preferred
for a specific use w.r.t. current document (, current entity).
DP: As above, for the entity being dealt with, ?? using some
characteristic. Indication that a dictionary is necessary
for this item
- how browser detects text resources associated with an
image.
DP: Bottom of the ladder. No one else has suggested how it might
be interpreted, hence I must. This also caters for the lazy
author.
- how does the author community converge on a taxonomy for
distinguishing different text resources associated with the
same image in a widely-recognized way?
DP: How about putting a scoped indirect interpretation. The author
scope is that of layer one - he/she knows about major routes
only. The stylesheet world uses that selection, in the knowledge
of
what the customer wants and has available. This keeps the author
input 'simple' in terms of an n way switch, permitting the
stylesheet
interpretation the flexibility to grow with technology to
encompass
more and more 'routes' to resources.
Regards, DaveP
