Hi,
Tidy gives an error when I tidy the following HTML:
The error is:
Exception: access violation (0xc0000005), Address: 0x004031ec
When I remove the font face... tidy works fine. Is this a known bug or
have a found a new one.
OK, I know I should not use Word, but sometimes it's the only way to
create HTML from existing documents.
Bye,
Jaap Droogers.
[snip]
Sorry, I don't get the error. What OS are You running this on?
BTW: I get 16 warnings from tidy for that 6-word snippet,
Word seems to bet *THE* HTML editor of choice...
Regards
Martin Vethake
PSION Center Uffenkamp
snailmail: PSION Center Uffenkamp
Gartenstr. 3
D-32130 Enger-Dreyen
email : martinv@ucs.de
web : http://www.ucs.de/
voice : +49-5224-699171
Hi Martin,
Sorry, I forgot to mention that I use Windows NT, sp5.
I also use a configurationfile with the the next line:
drop-font-tags: yes
When I remove this line then there are no errors.
Bye,
Jaap
With or without that line I get no run-time errors. But, I don't use
NT. Maybe it doesn't have enough ram alloc'ed but thats guessing.
Regards
Martin Vethake
PSION Center Uffenkamp
snailmail: PSION Center Uffenkamp
Gartenstr. 3
D-32130 Enger-Dreyen
email : martinv@ucs.de
web : http://www.ucs.de/
voice : +49-5224-699171
I am afraid that you will also have to tell us which version of HTML Tidy
you are using. I cannot reproduce your problem using:
tidy --drop-font-tags yes t.html
(where "t.html" contains the test case you supplied). It runs without
error on Windows NT 4.0 SP6 using the Win32 Tidy version "4th August 2000."
Please note that there are several versions of Tidy and many different
platforms supported, so providing the version, platform, command line used,
and a test case are all essential for us to reproduce a problem.
-- Dave
This error is not unique to Jaap. But see GUI note later.
I'm also running NT4.0 Sp 5, w/ Tidy from 4 Aug 2000.
With the line drop-font-tags: yes in a configuration file, I get the exception error
but only after the following warning appear on screen (the error file isn't created
-so I ran the job a bunch of times and finally gleaned the error list since even
Pause isn't effective):
Unknown attribute "old"
Unknown attribute "bookman"
When I comment out the drop-font-tags: yes line in the configuration file (using //),
the job finishes fine.
This occurs with or without the Clean: yes option specified.
The input file has the following line which is causing the error:
center font face="font face=" bookman="" old="" size="5" How
Hunting Regulations are Established /font font face=
"Bookman Old Style" size="4" br
I tried specifying the --drop-font-tags:yes on the command line with the -config
option but still got the exception error.
I can run the file through the GUI version of Tidy (V1.1.4) using a configuration
file built by that program and that contains the drop-font-tags: yes line. The job
runs fine and shows the same two warning lines shown above followed by a few more
with the next one being about a different input line and saying "warning: trimming
empty font "
I am converting old files to CSS so really need this option (drop-font-tags). Since
I am converting a complete site, I have many files and am wanting to use the wildcard
feature of Tidy - which the GUI version doesn't support. Plus I want to just dump the
new (tidied) file in the old one.
Natural Resource Consulting
P. Joseph Gabig ** CEO
4835 Knox ST ** Lincoln NE 68504-2154
Purveyor of Fine Consulting
On the web at: http://wildlifeconsult.com
Philosophically speaking, aren't we all temps? - Charles Barsotti
