Any ideas who I can turn to for best advice on accessible online video
streaming? I need to convert some PSAs and stream them.
Thanks in advance,
Terrie
Terrie L. King
Internet Marketing Manager
UCP
1660 L Street, NW, Suite 700
Washington, DC 20036
Ph: 800-872-5827
Web: www.ucp.org
UCP's mission is to advance the independence, productivity and full
citizenship of people with cerebral palsy and other disabilities.
From: Access Systems [mailto:accessys@smart.net]
(snip)
You are right, they provide their text transcripts in MS Word.
which of course would violate 508 which requires the access be freely
avaliable. (in most cases)
not to mention the proliferation of other operating systems,
from the MAC to the big mainframes.
OpenOffice ? http://www.openoffice.org/
Pat
Patrick H. Lauke
Webmaster / University of Salford
From: Access Systems [mailto:accessys@smart.net]
You are right, they provide their text transcripts in MS Word.
which of course would violate 508 which requires the access be freely
avaliable. (in most cases)
not to mention the proliferation of other operating systems,
from the MAC to the big mainframes.
OpenOffice (which I use) is not perfect and still has lots of trouble with
MS word documents.
BUT and this is personal peeve of mine, why is it always expected that
people with disabilities use all sorts of complex and many times rube
goldberg gyrations to read and use documents that could easily be
accessible if people posting em would make one or two key clicks, I mean
how hard is it to save Word documents in text format ?????
this seems to be the norm rather than the exception. for example rather
than put in a ramp, it is expected that wheelchair users will be able
to get complex wheelchairs like the ibot......
Bob
"They that can give up essential liberty to obtain a little temporary
safety deserve Neither liberty nor safety", Benjamin Franklin
ASCII Ribbon Campaign accessBob
NO HTML/PDF/RTF in e-mail accessys@smartnospam.net
NO MSWord docs in e-mail Access Systems, engineers
NO attachments in e-mail, *LINUX powered* access is a civil right
THIS message and any attachments are CONFIDENTIAL and may be
privileged. They are intended ONLY for the individual or entity named
