"XML documents are made up of storage units called entities, which contain
either text or binary data."
Could we say "XML text or non-XML text?" I am not sure in what sense an
ASCII inclusion (e.g. a VRML world) is more "binary" than an XML document.
Paul Prescod
Boycott Shell Oil worldwide! http://www.web.apc.org/embargo/shell.htm
"Shell is here on trial and it is as well that it is represented by counsel
said to be holding a watching brief."..."The ecological war that the Company
has waged in the Delta will be called to question sooner than later." -Ken
Saro-Wiwa to the tribunal that later executed him.
Agreed. Would XML ever contain VRML? VRML x.x might contain XML.
There
were some long discussions on having a structured text representation
for 2.0.
HTML was considered, but it was decided that simpler text was preferable
for the current systems. We also considered that HTML was a particular
text application, and that others might be needed or desired.
VRML 1.0 is ASCII. VRML 2.0 is UTF8.
The definition is looser than is comfortable. Isn't the notion of
notation
stronger? Text or binary seems weakly-defined.
len bullard
I would like to amend my suggestion to "XML data or non-XML data".
Why not? Isn't VRML a good language for embedding a 3D representation of
financial data? Or of a room?
Good decision!
Paul Prescod
Boycott Shell Oil worldwide! http://www.web.apc.org/embargo/shell.htm
"Shell is here on trial and it is as well that it is represented by counsel
said to be holding a watching brief."..."The ecological war that the Company
has waged in the Delta will be called to question sooner than later." -Ken
Saro-Wiwa to the tribunal that later executed him.
Sure. I just wasn't sure about using it inline. OTH, why not.
There was a lot of discussion about the ease of implementation
of embedding text apps inside VRML objects, although, it isn't
impossible. Requiring it seemed burdensome at the time but
there were several good arguments, some from Tim Bray and Gavin
Nicol who may remember them, for having this kind of functionality in
VRML. We disagreed on the HTML-only aspects. The consensus seemed to
be, "that's
what frames are for". BTW, VRML does not cite a frame directly but
includes a target attribute for which a frame is given as an example.
len
