EOWG Agenda, Jan 7, 2000
Time: 8:30-10:00 US Eastern Time
[speaking more globally, that would be: 13:30-15:00 UTC/ 5:30-7:00 Seattle/
8:30-10:00 Boston/ 14:30-16:00 Nice/ 22:30-00:00 Tokyo/ 00:30-02:00
Melbourne next day.]
Phone bridge: +1 617 252-1038
AGENDA
1. Outreach Updates
- upcoming or recent presentations?
- updates on promotion efforts?
2. Meeting Schedule
- check out proposed schedule at
- and read message about it, noting proposed alternative times, at
- comments?
3. Reference page on Web contests
- check out draft page at
- and read message about it at
- and reply thread, comments from:
Jonathan
Kathleen (welcome, Kathleen)
Rob (Rob I forwarded your message to the list)
Others? Remember you can always check the EOWG archives, at
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-eo/ ;
try out the new archive format.
- is this a good idea?
- anyone know any lists of contests?
- discussion of best ways to educate/influence contest coordinators?
- who wants to work on this w/ Marja?
4. Introduction for Assistive Technology Developers
- check out the initial draft from Wilson
- and the subsequent thread, including:
- discussion: how much could we shrink this?
- would this kind of thing be useful as an audience-tailored entry to WAI
materials?
5. Policy references
- updated a number of references, check it out at
- I put out a query for more US State-level policies to Tech Act
colleagues, and am thinking of breaking out a separate page for those;
sound good?
- sent mail to Reidy Brown to inquire what he was compiling on
universities; what about us linking to a select batch of model policies,
and then to an off-site comprehensive list of policies?
- replied to Raphael Romero on some policy questions
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ig/2000JanMar/0036.html . We
had talked a few months ago about developing a page giving some background
on potential advocacy approaches. What do people think about including some
of this information?
6. WAI Overview Slides
- completed on-line "Web Slides" introduction to WAI
- it's now listed as a resource in the (updated) resource section of the
WAI home page
- and from the W3C "Talks" page (which is a bit on the outdated side in
general)
- so if you note any bugs, please email me promptly mailto:jbrewer@w3.org
7. Next meeting date (January 21) and topic (Review groups)
Judy Brewer jbrewer@w3.org +1.617.258.9741 http://www.w3.org/WAI
Director, Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI) International Program Office
World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)
MIT/LCS Room NE43-355, 545 Technology Square, Cambridge, MA, 02139, USA
aloha, judy!
quote
Remember you can always check the EOWG archives, at
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-eo/ ;
try out the new archive format.
unquote
to which i reply that i really dislike the new format, as it makes it
impossible for anyone using speech output alone to navigate the archive via
a list of links, as there is no means of differentiating between the
boilerplate hyperlink text for "date", "thread", "author", and "subject"...
there are currently nine hyperlinks with the hyperlink text "date", nine
with the hyperlink text "thread", nine with the hyperlink text "author",
and nine with the hyperlink text "subject" listed in a list of links for
the EO mail archive -- how am i to differentiate between them?
i vastly preferred the old introductory format, where i could make sense of
the archive divisions, such as:
Since January 2000
October to December 1999
July to September 1999
when navigating via a list of links, and _then_ choose to have the messages
listed by date, thread, author, or subject...
would it be possible to have both interfaces available? would it also be
possible to add semantic information to the boilerplate hyperlink text via
the use of the TITLE attribute, so that rather than being encoded as:
the link would be encoded thus:
a href="1999OctDec/"
title="Messages from October to December 1999 sorted by date"
date /a
a href="1999OctDec/thread.html"
title="Messages from October to December 1999 sorted by thread"
thread /a
a href="1999OctDec/author.html"
title="Messages from October to December 1999 sorted by author"
author /a
a href="1999OctDec/subject.html"
title="Messages from October to December 1999 sorted by subject"
subject /a
implementation of the latter suggestion would (to a certain extent) reduce
the need for offering an alternative view -- read: providing the option to
view the archive using the old interface -- provided, of course, that one's
UA and/or AT is capable of exposing to the user titles that have been
defined for hyperlinks, either through a list of links or -- ideally, and
-- by serial navigation (i.e. tabbing from link to link)...
in any event, this touches on one of my personal crusades -- the attempt to
get page authors to use semantically sensible -- and, wherever possible,
unique -- hyperlink text for every hyperlink on a page... by semantically
sensible, i mean hyperlink text which does NOT rely on surrounding
contextual information ...
additionally, i'm troubled by the fact that, by violating WCAG Checkpoint
13.1, which states,
quote
13.1 Clearly identify the target of each link. [Priority 2]
Link text should be meaningful enough to make sense when read out of
context -- either on its own or as part of a sequence of links. Link text
should also be terse. For example, in HTML, write "Information about
version 4.3" instead of "click here". In addition to clear link text,
content developers may further clarify the target of a link with an
informative link title (e.g., in HTML, the "title" attribute).
unquote
the new archive format could only obtain a Single-A conformance rating, and
i think it behooves W3C space to be (at least) Double-A compliant...
which, brings me to the Webmaster FAQ, located at:
this page is an accessibility nightmare, for when it is navigated via the
keyboard using speech (JFW 3.5, to be precise), all that is echoed is:
"W3C Homepage visited link"
"FAQ link"
"Display button"
"Display button"
"Display button"
"Display button"
"Display button"
"Display button"
"Display button"
"Display button"
"Display button"
(note: only the first 2 items listed above appear in a list of links for
the page)
since the forms that drive the FAQ page are embedded within a TABLE, one
cannot even obtain surrounding contextual information by using the "speak
entire line" screen-review command... moving the display button cell from
the first item in the row to the last helps somewhat -- at least, when
using JFW 3.5 -- making it possible to use the "speak from left margin to
cursor" screen-review command to obtain the contextual information to
associate with the button, but that is far from an obvious solution for
anyone who is simply trying to use the page to report a problem...
all that being said, i DO like the addition of the search form to the mail
archive!
gregory.
He that lives on Hope, dies farting
-- Benjamin Franklin, Poor Richard's Almanack, 1763
Gregory J. Rosmaita unagi69@concentric.net
WebMaster and Minister of Propaganda, VICUG NYC
Gregory,
I'll follow up w/ the Web team and Communications team on those two issues.
The Webmaster FAQ problem we're aware of, and were discussing how to fix
earlier this week (it ironically works just as miserably for sighted
users), and the archive format is new since the turn of the year, and
obviously problematic in terms of link names.
Thanks,
Judy
date /a
Judy Brewer jbrewer@w3.org +1.617.258.9741 http://www.w3.org/WAI
Director, Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI) International Program Office
World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)
MIT/LCS Room NE43-355, 545 Technology Square, Cambridge, MA, 02139, USA
