It should be possible using ie6 to navigate this document via tabbing.
It isn't.
Try tabbing to (contents) "Preliminary Review" , tab to #prelim, tab
again....
I've already raised this issue, and believe it is worth addressing.
It does set a poor precedent.
jonathan chetwynd
IT teacher (LDD)
j.chetwynd@btinternet.com
on the web"
Jonathan,
We're aware of this issue and have run some experiments with different
browsers to try to isolate the problem, since navigation anomalies does not
seem to be a problem in IE6 only, but to some extent in a few versions of
other browsers as well.
The next stage will be running some experiments with some different
navigation options at the header -- beyond the many nav options that were
initially tested last year for this design.
It is being addressed, and your comments have been acknowledged on other
lists already, but a new design isn't available yet. In the meantime we
needed to get this page out for review. We will insert the new design once
it's available &amp; has been tested.
- Judy
Judy Brewer jbrewer@w3.org +1.617.258.9741 http://www.w3.org/WAI
Director, Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI), World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)
MIT/LCS Room NE43-355, 200 Technology Square, Cambridge, MA, 02139, USA
Once again I recommend taking time out.
I have been advocating that content is not quite as important as WAI seems
to believe it is, demonstration is at least as important.
Judy may be in a rush to publish, however there is already a huge amount of
material published by WAI on the web.
Most of it is only accessible to a tiny minority of the population.
There is yet to be any material published on the WAI site that is accessible
to people with a learning difficulty.
I've sent in a report suggesting that the WAI homepage be changed to only
include one anchor per table cell.
The W3C homepage follows this, and indeed I was thanked by its editor for
making this report.
I've not had an acknowledgement from WAI, and no action has been taken.
I'll be looking into how tabbing navigation can be improved.
However the editors current attitude is unlikely to encourage my efforts.
thanks
jonathan chetwynd
IT teacher (LDD)
j.chetwynd@btinternet.com
on the web"
