[thinking to myself... oh boy, why am I doing this...???]
My friend Michael Mealling [mailto:michael@neonym.net] asserts:
If you have two URIs then you, by definition, have two distinctly
different Resources.
The following three URIs are well formed and distinct, but resolve to
precisely the same resource:
It can be argued that the first and second actually point to a resolution
table, which in turn supports redirection of the link to the actual resource
(the third), though this seems to me a distinction without a difference, and
unhelpful.
The distinction between the first and the second resides at the DNS level
(two domains pointed at the same machine... not all that uncommon). Clearly
these two are different URLs that resolve to the same resource.
stu
Stuart Weibel
Senior Research Scientist
OCLC Office of Research
weibel@oclc.org
Hi Stu! I asked myself the same thing.....
If you have two URIs then you, by definition, have two distinctly
The definition of 'same' that you are using is perfectly reasonable to
you but might be completely unreasonable to someone else. I personally
don't agree with it since I have no real garuantee that oclc.org will
remain under OCLC's control since domain-names are re-assignable. We
spent a large amount of time way back when realizing that 'sameness'
with respect to URIs has many 'flavors', only one being universal for
all cases in which a URI can be used.
-MM
Weibel,Stu scripsit:
So you say. But how do we know that, absent a clear-cut operational
definition of "resource"? A resource cannot be identified with the MIME
entity body that is returned when you GET it: the resources may be
different even though the entity bodies are bit-for-bit identical and
have the same media type; contrariwise, a single resource may return
different entity bodies on different retrievals.
So the most you can say is that two URIs always return the same entity
bodies (or none at all), which cannot be established empirically because
it has to span the entire past and future history of those URIs.
John Cowan www.ccil.org/~cowan www.reutershealth.com jcowan@reutershealth.com
All "isms" should be "wasms". --Abbie
If you have two URIs then you, by definition, have two distinctly
Quite.
Perhaps it would be more precise to say that all three
of the above URIs
1. have equivalent denotations (refer to the same resource)
2. resolve to the same set of representations of that resource
3. (potentially) have distinct intensions
I see the intersection of the traditional (RESTful) Web and
the Semantic Web as being the shared denotations of URIs.
Both the Web and Semantic Web share the same set of identifiers
and a given URI denotes the same resource for both a web agent
and a SW agent.
The Web is concerned with representations of those resources
retrievable via their URIs. Navigating the Web constitutes
traversing from representation to representation via URIs
referring to related resources.
The Semantic Web is concerned with knowledge about resources
retrievable in some fashion (e.g. URIQA) via their URIs.
Navigating the Semantic Web constitutes traversing from
description to description via URIs referring to related
resources.
Different URIs may denote the same resource, even if different
representations or descriptions are available via those URIs.
The particular URI chosen often (and usually unknowingly)
reflects a distinct intension from other URIs that might
denote the same resource, for which we need languages such as
RDF and OWL to model effectively.
While my assertion that http: and https: variants (typically)
have identical denotations might be questionable (at least
insofar as the letter of the specs), it is certainly the case
that the assertion that two different URIs always denote two
different resources is not only false, but would render both
the Web and Semantic Web unworkably constrained and more
seriously, semantically disjoint.
Regards,
Patrick
Patrick Stickler
Nokia, Finland
patrick.stickler@nokia.com
