I'm looking at making accessible an educational website for an FE college
and while looking at inclusiveness of people with learning difficulties,
Something struck me. I think, maybe a potential standardisation missing
which may help many people.
What I'm interested in is the use of icons on web pages as the main meaning
representation for links (see Jonathan Chetwynd's web site at
Is there any development of a global standard for meanings of icons /
pictograms so that meanings become standard like text?
I ask this because the constant replies I get, is to work with students to
invent our own - this is reasonable for our Intranet where support is
easily given but potential future students (our web sites target audience)
may not perceive them with the same meaning, which could cause confusion.
These could be developed in the same way different people require (and can
choose) use of different fonts (for languages / families locales). They
could also be defined WAI?
I'd be interested to hear comments on this.
Dave Harris
This email is confidential and intended solely for the use of the individual
to whom it is addressed. Any views or opinions presented are solely those
of the author and do not necessarily represent those of
Telford College of Arts &amp; Technology. If you are not the intended recipient,
be advised that you have received this email in error and that any use,
dissemination, forwarding, printing, or copying of this email is strictly
prohibited.
If you have received this email in error please notify the
Telford College of Arts &amp; Technology I.T. Helpdesk
by telephone on 44 (0)1952 642284.
Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked with virus software
before transmission. However, you should carry out your own virus check
before opening any attachment. Telford College of Arts &amp; Technology accepts
no liability for any loss or damage, which may be caused by software
viruses.
Hi David,
yes there is quite a lot of work in this area. Unfortunately it has almost
no profile at all in WAI discussions at the moment. There are several
symbol sets that are implemente in a range of software (chat, email,
document composition, etc) - Bliss, PCS, Widgit, and a couple of others
whose names aren't at the tip of my tongue.
If you follow Jonathan's work closer you might find references to the
WWAAC group, and the CCF or Concept Coding Framework which they are
developing [1]. This is a semantic-web based approach to identifying
concepts, and then things that represent them - which turns out to work
quite well for symbol-based systems, and in addition allows for easy
customisation - for example I can use a photo of me instead of a symbol
for "me".
I can use SVG symbols so I can style things appropriately. Jonathan often
talks about the red-bus/green-bus problem, where if people see a symbol
for bus and it is red they interpret that as important, and ignore all the
passing buses because they happen to be green.
I did some mock-ups of how to do this in SVG, and hope to get a simple
SVG-based demo quality authoring system running soon. You might like to
look at an example (note that the RDF included uses a whole lot of
undeclared dummy properties - it has the rough shape of the real thing,
but has been "greeked" - dummy text used) [2].
One of the big issues is copyright - none of these symbol sets are freely
available in the way that words and letters are - you have to pay for
them. This has been a barrier to interoperability and communication.
Again, interesting developments include the fact that the Unicode
consortium are looking at including bliss symbols in Unicode, which would
actually mean the specific concepts encoded by bliss, since the images
that represent them are just like different fonts.
So I think it isn't such a bad idea to develop symbols if you're going to
give them away, but if you are not it would be cheaper, and probably more
interoperable, to just buy a license for some software that includes a
decent sized symbol set.
[1] http://dewey.computing.dundee.ac.uk/ccf
[2] http://www.w3.org/2001/sw/Europe/talks/20040309-charles/mesg.svg (you
should be able to open it in an old browser and see something roughly
right, or in Amaya to see something better)
cheers
Chaals
Charles McCathieNevile charles@sidar.org
A small choice?
comprehensive survey of site navigation conventions
HTH DaveP.
NOTICE: The information contained in this email and any attachments is
confidential and may be privileged. If you are not the intended
recipient you should not use, disclose, distribute or copy any of the
content of it or of any attachment; you are requested to notify the
sender immediately of your receipt of the email and then to delete it
and any attachments from your system.
RNIB endeavours to ensure that emails and any attachments generated by
its staff are free from viruses or other contaminants. However, it
cannot accept any responsibility for any such which are transmitted.
We therefore recommend you scan all attachments.
Please note that the statements and views expressed in this email and
any attachments are those of the author and do not necessarily represent
those of RNIB.
RNIB Registered Charity Number: 226227
Website: http://www.rnib.org.uk
How about QBullets? http://www.matterform.com/?page=qbullets/
I have seen them on some different sites (including some wiki's I
think). One example of a website is http://demuynck.org
Kind regards,
Jeroen Budts
Jeroen Budts - http://budts.be/weblog/ - http://budts.be/jeroen/
Using more.groupware Webmail - www.moregroupware.org
A small choice?
more
comprehensive survey of site navigation conventions
HTH DaveP.
NOTICE: The information contained in this email and any attachments is
confidential and may be privileged. If you are not the intended
recipient you should not use, disclose, distribute or copy any of the
content of it or of any attachment; you are requested to notify the
sender immediately of your receipt of the email and then to delete it
and any attachments from your system.
RNIB endeavours to ensure that emails and any attachments generated by
its staff are free from viruses or other contaminants. However, it
cannot accept any responsibility for any such which are transmitted.
We therefore recommend you scan all attachments.
Please note that the statements and views expressed in this email and
any attachments are those of the author and do not necessarily
represent
those of RNIB.
RNIB Registered Charity Number: 226227
Website: http://www.rnib.org.uk
With our Special Education students, we use the symbols contained in the
Mayer-Johnson (http://www.mayer-johnson.com/) product called Boardmaker.
It contains numerous images that represent people, places, things,
emotions, and much more. Teachers and speech therapists create "boards"
with these images that students can use to communicate. In some instances,
the student points to a series of pictures to tell the teacher something.
In other cases, the teacher points to a picture to tell the student
something. These pictures are also placed on objects around the room so the
student can learn to associate the picture with the object.
Boardmaker is a very popular software used in the Special Education world
(at least in the U.S.) and would be very recognizable to a specific audience.
The other nice feature about this product, is that each picture also comes
with standard text that is also customizable. By including the text,
individuals that are not familiar with the symbols can still understand the
meaning, and once individuals become accustomed to seeing the symbols and
text, they no longer need the text to recognize the symbol and it's meaning.
I think that if the ALT attribute is used to provide the meaning for each
symbol used, it would accomplish the same type of goal. Those that cannot
"see" the symbol, still know what it's function is. Those that can "see"
the symbol, can mouseover it to read the ALT text and still will know what
it's function is.
Sorry if this wasn't exactly the type of feedback you're looking for.
Janet
David
Choosing standardized icons was one of the issues we faced when building
ATutor. Though we found a few that seem relatively standard, such as a
house for a home icon, and a magnifying glass for a search tool, many of
the icons we used were picked because there was no better choice. One
thing to keep in mind is that users learn to make the association
between icons and the tools they represent relatively quick,despite the
lack of standardization for these visual representations outside the
application. While I think a small set of icons can be standardized, in
a complex application like ATutor, there are many tools that will not be
found on most sites, so representing them graphically in a standard way
would be difficult. How to represent a course enrollment utility for
example?
ATutor was built for the primary purpose of accomodating students with
learning difficulties. It uses a variety of strategies for presenting
the interface as well as structuring the content. It's also fully
accessible, and free.
There's a demo and a download at:
greg
Hi David, and others...
I'm Andy Judson, I work on the wwaac project mentioned by Chaals' original
reply, and he covered the background to our project nicely. We're currently
coming to the end of our 3 years of european funding and as such we're busy
writing our final deliverables. But over the next few days we're going to
meeting internally to discuss how we can continue this work etc. I won't go
into the project too much here as everything is on the website [1]. The
latest version of our deliverable and other background work and links can be
found there. Recently we've been producing a demo area [2] that uses our
concept coding approach - which is basically made up of rdf/owl/ruby and
xpointers.
[1] http://dewey.computing.dundee.ac.uk/ccf
[2] http://dewey.computing.dundee.ac.uk:8080/ccf
Please have a look at the these and email me if you have further questions
You can also find me and the others working on the concept coding on irc at
irc.freenode.net#ccf
Also, in response to Janet the PCS symbol set from mayer-johnson is a
licensed set, so it is not likely you can just post them on your websites.
We're in discussion with all the communication symbol set authors/license
owners and developers using them to get them onboard with our approach, and
to discuss how the use of such systems over the web can happen.
With our Special Education students, we use the symbols contained in the
Mayer-Johnson (http://www.mayer-johnson.com/) product called Boardmaker.
It contains numerous images that represent people, places, things,
emotions, and much more. Teachers and speech therapists create "boards"
with these images that students can use to communicate. In some instances,
the student points to a series of pictures to tell the teacher something.
In other cases, the teacher points to a picture to tell the student
something. These pictures are also placed on objects around the room so the
student can learn to associate the picture with the object.
Boardmaker is a very popular software used in the Special Education world
(at least in the U.S.) and would be very recognizable to a specific
audience.
The other nice feature about this product, is that each picture also comes
with standard text that is also customizable. By including the text,
individuals that are not familiar with the symbols can still understand the
meaning, and once individuals become accustomed to seeing the symbols and
text, they no longer need the text to recognize the symbol and it's meaning.
I think that if the ALT attribute is used to provide the meaning for each
symbol used, it would accomplish the same type of goal. Those that cannot
"see" the symbol, still know what it's function is. Those that can "see"
the symbol, can mouseover it to read the ALT text and still will know what
it's function is.
Sorry if this wasn't exactly the type of feedback you're looking for.
Janet
Unicode is about the only place for this, and is where any open standard
should get reflected. There are various "dingbat" and other pictorial
icons in Unicode. There are also 10,000s of CJK icons, but these have
become very abstracted (you could also say that the floppy disk icon for
save is becoming a pure abstraction, because people don't use floppy
disks any longer). A new iconic language ought to be considered as valid
as Chinese (and risks becoming as complex).
Representation of non-concrete objects is likely to very difficult to
achieve because they will have to be represented indirectly and those
representations are likely to be subject to cultural considerations
(e.g. black for mourning is wrong in South Asia, where the mourning
colour is white).
In reality, in user interface design, apart from a few de facto standards,
the remaining icons get invented by the designers, and may reflect an
imagery theme for the product that has no relation to what the product
actually does. They are normally there for frequent users. Occasional
users typically have to hover the icon to find out what it means from the
tool-tip.
