I have put some thoughts on the opportunity that the Initiative is facing
as it organizes itself in an informal whitepaper at
Sorry I won't be with you in Nice to explain this. But I hope that some
people will have a chance to read this, and that the tasks and teams that
come out of this meeting fit the present state of knowledge better than
the plan going in.
For example, it is premature to form separate teams on protocol writing
and guideline writing at this time. We need to pound on protocols and
guidelines as a unit until the guidelines are so lightweight that they
will fly. We are not to that point yet.
Al Gilman
Thanks for the input, Al, comments on your document will follow.
Actually, I think we need to work on protocols and languages first,
and then on guidelines. But of course there will be overalp, since we
won't be done with technology before we start working on guidelines.
As far as using one forum/team to discuss that, I agree, and that's
why you only see one w3c-wai-wg list for now.
Hello Al and all.
I've read
I will count this note a success if it gets
people to consider these issues in preparing work plans, methods
and infrastructure for the Initiative.
and I thank you for it already.
As always when I have to reply an long message like this one, I try to
find the few key sentences and I ignore the rest (ignore in my reply,
but I have read it of course). Please tell me if there is particular
aspect I should have answered and didn't.
The preliminary plans for the Web Access Initiative are based on how the
World Wide Web consortium has run projects in the past. Work is carried out
by working groups that communicate between meetings by email lists. The work
is punctuated by real-time telephone conferences and face-to-face meetings.
It culminates in a cycle of document drafting, review and comment. The
review comments are handled via the group email lists. There are also
minimum-participation thresholds for the working groups. One must satisfy
action items in a timely fashion and maintain attendance at meetings to be
considered a member of the group.
This is basically the text. You're a good outside observer! (do you
have access to the W3C official process document?)
The Initiative should take a hard look at its assumptions about how
people participate and find ways to improve the accessibility of
this Initiative to workers for whom travel or receiving voluminous
email streams are barriers.
Agreed.
On the email topic first, we already have created a working group and
a interest group forum, which resemble the lynx-dev and lynx-learner
list you're talking about.
Let's see how these 2 list work and then we can fix the problem if
there is one.
The issues related to archiving of these lists are being looked at and
your input about extended mailto and search is valuable.
On the travel front now. Travel constraints, whether driven by
physical, time or wallet disabilities are and have been a primary
concern to us. If you're worry that an invited expert is dropped from
the working group because he or she cannot travel to Europe or the
West coast, you shouldn't.
For someone (a member or a invited expert) to be expelled from a W3C
working group (to my knowledge, this has never happen before), it
really has to be a situation where the person is in the way of the
normal process: sign up for some deliverables and never return them,
show up with no preparation and waste half of a common bandwidth to
get back in track, make marketing blurb instead of working toward a
common goal, that kind of things. As the chair of the working group, I
am responsible for that policy.
Protocols are too important to be left to the developers.
I'd rather not start a religeous discussion on that topic, but I can't
help :-)
Protocols are developers' things.
Requirements are not.
Example: a requirement is that one should be able to add a web page worth of
descriptive text to an image.
another requirement is that users that do not use this text
shouldn't have to pay for it.
These are user level statements.
One protocol designer answer is the D tag, another is the OBJECT tag,
another one is Content negociation at the HTTP level (gimme this gif
as text/html please).
Developers have to discuss that and come up with a solution that
fulfill the requirements, not the users.
While doing so, they might have their own requirements and
constraints (think of backward compatibility, truth and beauty of
the markup, etc).
The initial phase of the project should be dominated by characterization of
the current situation: what works and what doesn't, what disabilities there
are, etc. This should be led by the evaluator competency.
Agreed.
The only answer I have for your is that right now, although the W3C
working group has started, the IPO (International Program Office) for
the WAI itself has not. We're still in the wait-for-fund phase and in
order to do what you advocate, we must know exactly what is our
resource pool.
Policy people and technology people have difficulty communicating.
Bridge-building between NetNerds and PolicyWonks is one of the subtasks on
our agenda.
W3C has recently hired a policy analyst, to do just that (across the
board, not just for WAI). His name is Joseph Reagle (reagle@w3.org)
and if you have specific questions in mind, feel free to ask him.
for the solution to work. One example is law enforcement. The proposal for
the Initiative says that the Consortium will, through the Initiative, become
an advocate for the disabled with the Industry. Stating this without placing
law enforcement in the context leaves the picture unclear.
What laws are you thinking about ?
Which countries are they applicable in ?
From day one of writing the briefing package, Mike Paciello, Jim
Miller and myself have tried and wanted to gather more than just US
legislation pointers in our document. Guess what: it's too hard, a
moving target where most pieces are not in sight!
Again, depending on the resources we get, this is one of my favorite
action item: build up a WAI legit resource center for people *word
wide* to get the context they need.
Qualify your model of who the players are.
I found the absense of groups such as the webwatch-l email list from the
groups that are mentioned as potential contributors and supporters of the
Initiative to be unfortunate. Groups and individuals that are prominent
today meeting the online needs of disabled individuals are a critical
resource. They can give us the success models to build on.
The invitation to the Initiative Launch went out to contacts that the
organizers already knew. This list should be made public and revised with
the aid of public comment.
Agreed and I hope I can count on people like yourself to help bridging
gaps between these existing virtual communities and WAI.
People should be asked now, "How will we know that it is working." Various
tasks will spin off from this, including testing of early prototypes and the
development of better evaluation measures and instruments. A sketch of the
"final selloff test" should be one of the first products of the Initiative.
Not that it won't change a lot. But doing this now will improve the work
done thereafter.
A hard one. We can build prototypes and evolve our spec to meet the
requirements of our users, but we will know if all that really works
in the field itself: are 1998 or 1999 web pages and tools better than in
1997, accessibility-wise ?
OK, so we first need to assess the current field situation but for
that we need to build up some guidelines and the tools that check
them, for which we need the technology straighten out first. Kind of
chicken and egg problem here...
I propose that we start with the technologies we know best at W3C:
HTML/CSS/HTTP. From there we can work our way toward including
additional topics, usage guidelines of course, but also better email
or archiving support, or less web centric things like Java or Windows
APIs.
From: Daniel Dardailler danield@w3.org
I've read
and I thank you for it already.
Great! I sweat some over writing it, so I am glad if you found reading
it worth your time.
As always when I have to reply an long message like this one, I try to
find the few key sentences and I ignore the rest (ignore in my reply,
but I have read it of course). Please tell me if there is particular
aspect I should have answered and didn't.
Thank you for not quoting back the whole thing.
My overall assessment is that we are in pretty good sync. My confidence
in the process is way up from, say, the launch date.
I have continued on a few points below, but I don't want to take too
much of anyone's time with this right now.
[big snip]
Protocols are too important to be left to the developers.
I'd rather not start a religeous discussion on that topic, but I can't
help :-)
Protocols are developers' things.
Requirements are not.
There is more difference in our word-use than our management
ideas, here. I see user-level descriptions of both requirements
and solutions, and developer-level descriptions of both --
concurrently in existence in the process.
To me a protocol is any method involving more than one agent.
Which means we need to define method and agent... Suffice it to
say that abstractions are included. The way I use protocol,
the ISO-OSI model is a protocol for software decomposition.
And I am willing to bend my word-use to the norms of the group as
the group gets together and is able to assert a common view on
these things.
What I got out of your response is that you have a good grasp of
the users' inability to write a fire-and-forget requirements
statement and disengage thereafter. That's why I don't see a
problem in the terminology clash.
[snip.. back to Daniel...]
What laws are you thinking about ?
Which countries are they applicable in ?
My familiarity is only with U.S. Law. There are precedents in
public accomodation laws, the ADA, and fair housing laws that
commercial entities have to be public and non-discriminatory in
offers to do business. These do not translate directly to Web
commerce, but the do suggest that there will be a body of public
policy attempting to say that some distinctions are anti-social.
The Web technology creates a whole web of new gray shades between
public and private. How the policy comes down in the end is
still up in the air. But our thinking should include the possibility
that there will be some concerns enforced by legal sanctions
whether criminal or tort.
Miller and myself have tried and wanted to gather more than just US
legislation pointers in our document. Guess what: it's too hard, a
moving target where most pieces are not in sight!
Again, depending on the resources we get, this is one of my favorite
action item: build up a WAI legit resource center for people *word
wide* to get the context they need.
[Al again...]
I think that you can induce some of this just by the way you ask
others questions and actually listen to them. Part of the problem
is that the legal scene is changing perhaps faster than the data
communications scene.
I don't think that you need to build an archive to make the
information come together. Link to what you can find and you may
achieve critical mass. The linking may spread.
The invitation to the Initiative Launch went out to contacts that the
organizers already knew. This list should be made public and revised with
the aid of public comment.
Agreed and I hope I can count on people like yourself to help bridging
gaps between these existing virtual communities and WAI.
I hope I can be of assistance in this.
[Al said "make a rough sketch of the acceptance test process one
of your first products"]
A hard one. We can build prototypes and evolve our spec to meet the
requirements of our users, but we will know if all that really works
in the field itself: are 1998 or 1999 web pages and tools better than in
1997, accessibility-wise ?
OK, so we first need to assess the current field situation but for
that we need to build up some guidelines and the tools that check
them, for which we need the technology straighten out first. Kind of
chicken and egg problem here...
You don't need scientific measures to get started. You do need
to contact the right populations. Get them to characterize their
experience of the 'Net and Web. Lloyd Rassmussen is a pretty
good rapporteur for Lynx and the blind.
I propose that we start with the technologies we know best at W3C:
HTML/CSS/HTTP. From there we can work our way toward including
additional topics, usage guidelines of course, but also better email
or archiving support, or less web centric things like Java or Windows
APIs.
Go for it. Do something you can see your way clear to doing. It
can grow from there.
Al Gilman
