I have run into a problem while tidying up some html that has
comments in it. Maybe this can turn into a requested feature??
the comment looks something like
Except that the ' is a chr 146. In other words, a 'smart apostropy' or
'curly apostropy'
(yes this is output from word if you are curious)
This character is getting changed to something else. In my text editor it
indicates it is a chr 25. In Word (opened as raw text) it inidicates chr
13. I am not convinced that it is either of these because of the tools I
used. I can get more carefull and find out if I need to, but it is
definately no longer a chr 146. It may be the unicode equivalent of a
smart apostropy???
If chr 146 is in a regular uncommented tag it becomes &amp;#8217;
Which is great.
Is there a way I can get tidy to convert the character in the same way as
if it was not in the comment? or to leave it alone?
I did search the archives and tried different config file settings.
I used Bj?rn's command-line version (last updated 7 April, 2002)
I used these config settings last (tried many variations)
tidy-mark: no
doctype: omit
output-xml: yes
output-xhtml: yes
add-xml-decl: yes
write-back: yes
quiet: yes
show-warnings: no
wrap: 0
assume-xml-procins: yes
quote-nbsp: no
quote-marks: yes
hopefully I am not just being a bothersome newbe.
Thanks
Fred
Yes. That's a bug. I added it to the bug tracker, see
regards.
Is it a bug? Surely this depends on the charset. If it is something
other than the windows charset then 146 isn't a valid character.
Dave Raggett dsr@w3.org or dave.raggett@openwave.com
W3C lead for voice/multimodal. http://www.w3.org/People/Raggett
To convert 0x92 to 0x19 is a bug, yes.
Why? If you are converting a broken document (invalid characters)
into a valid document with the equivalent Unicode characters and
a Unicode character set, surely this is in direct alignment with
the goals of HTML Tidy?
If the OUTPUT charset is the Windows charset, then yes it would
be a bug to convert these characters to the Unicode equivalents.
Dave Raggett dsr@w3.org or dave.raggett@openwave.com
W3C lead for voice/multimodal. http://www.w3.org/People/Raggett
Again, a reduced test case looks like this
It's encoded using Windows-1252, hence a hex dump looks like
3C 21 2D 2D 92 2D 2D 3E
After running Tidy on that document without any special configuration
option it becomes
3C 21 2D 2D 19 2D 2D 3E
U+0019 is a c0 control character ("END OF MEDIUM") and it is an invalid
character in HTML ("UNUSED" in the SGML declaration). That's a bug. I am
not against transcoding or replacing the U+2019 in the source document,
but Tidy does not do this at the moment, it just mangles the character.
Agreed - if both input and output character sets are Windows-1252
then Tidy shouldn't mess with valid Windows-1252 characters.
That said, I think it is bad practice to use Windows-1252 and we
should set the default to a portable character set based on Unicode.
Linux and Mac user's aren't happy with folks delivering documents
using Windows-1252 special characters when these characters have
equivalent Unicode code points. It is also the case that
Windows-1252 TrueType fonts include the Unicode glyph tables
so that using the Unicode code points works fine on Windows.
Dave Raggett dsr@w3.org or dave.raggett@openwave.com
W3C lead for voice/multimodal. http://www.w3.org/People/Raggett
