Bonjour,
I have downloaded the Blackdog onForm engine to process Xforms on IE6 and it doesn't seem to work.
Has anybody tried this plugin and experienced problems too? Or do you know any alternatives to view and submit xforms on IE browsers?
Regards,
Pierre Busnel
Pierre.
I am sorry to say that we have currently halted development of the OnForm
Engine, concentrating instead on producing a simple to use forms-designer
for xForms.
The version of the dll that you have should work with a significant sub-set
of the xForms Spec, but we are not currently planning to develop that engine
to alpha status.
For IE to render your xHTML/xForms mark up suing this engine two additional
things are required:-
1)Internet Explorer looks for an .htc (html component file) when it
encounters elements with the "xforms" namespace.
2)The engine must be passed the name of an xsl stylesheet to tell it how the
xForms controls are rendered.
Both of these files can be generated from OnForm xPress, our forms designer,
which gives this architecture a lot of flexiblity and power, but neither is
easy to create otherwise, which means that this architecture may have
unneccessary complexity.
The output from the Forms Designer is designed to work with any xForms
rendering engine that doesn't require code in addition to the xForms spec,
and we are about to launch what we hope is the final beta version of the
designer which inludes design capacity for all of the xForms controls,
groups, nested repeats, and switches.
I hope that this answers your questions in the short term
Very best regards
Robert Bull
* This e-mail is for the intended recipient only, *
* its contents and the content of any attachments *
* is copyright material belonging to HoT Training *
* and Consultancy Ltd, and all information herein *
* should be treated as Company Confidential *
Behalf Of pierre busnel
Bonjour,
I have downloaded the Blackdog onForm engine to process Xforms on IE6 and it
doesn't seem to work.
Has anybody tried this plugin and experienced problems too? Or do you know
any alternatives to view and submit xforms on IE browsers?
Regards,
Pierre Busnel
Hi Pierre,
A version of formsPlayer is available as a plug-in for IE6. fP was one of
the two processors that implemented 100% of XForms 1.0, and so allowed the
spec to become a full standard. It's available as a free download from:
fP is more than an XForms processor though. For a taster of some of the
things we have in the pipeline take a look at our customisable search-bar,
allowing you to search Amazon and Google from an Internet Explorer side-bar
- all expressed with XForms:
Regards,
Mark
Mark Birbeck
CEO and CTO
x-port.net Ltd.
Download our XForms processor from
Thank you all for your answers,
Best regards
Pierre
