I'm curious about the use of tabs instead of spaces for indenting. I
have always liked tabs (maily because of display in my editors).
The tidy web page says "Tidy never outputs tabs". Is there a
particular reason for this or just an option not implemented?
Michael D. Hubbard
Laboratory of Aquatic Entomology
Florida A&amp;M University
Tallahassee, Florida 32307 USA
Voice: +1 (850) 561 - 2216
"And his answer trickled through my head,
like water through a sieve."
Through the Looking Glass, Lewis Carroll
The number of columns for each tab stop varies from one system or
program to another, Unix systems generally use 8, but other systems
often use 4 or 5 columns. Many people like to use a smaller number
of spaces, to maximize the space remaining before the right margin.
In principle, an option could be added to use tabs, but this isn't a
frequently requested option.
Regards,
-- Dave Raggett dsr@w3.org http://www.w3.org/People/Raggett
World Wide Web Consortium (on assignment from HP Labs)
The number of columns for each tab stop varies from one system or
program to another, Unix systems generally use 8, but other systems
often use 4 or 5 columns. Many people like to use a smaller number
of spaces, to maximize the space remaining before the right margin.
In principle, an option could be added to use tabs, but this isn't a
frequently requested option.
Regards,
-- Dave Raggett dsr@w3.org http://www.w3.org/People/Raggett
World Wide Web Consortium (on assignment from HP Labs)
I also prefer tabs over multiple spaces. Moreover, I run an "extended find
and replace" to replace double spaces with single spaces over all HTML
documents that I receive to edit from other authors (this is done
recursively until no more matches occur).
So if it's just because of lack of request that there is no option to tell
Tidy to use tabs for pretty printing HTML, I hereby add my request to
Michael's - are two requests enough for getting this implemented? ;-)
Regards,
Sebastian Lange
I prefer tabs also. I can easily (re-) define the number of spaces
these are expanded to on my favourite text editor (BBEdit on the
Macintosh). It also makes for smaller files, particularly if there
is a lot of indenting. And we are always being told to minimise the
file size to speed downloading :-)
Regards,
Peter
HTTP compression handles multiple spaces pretty well from what I hear. I used
to be a big tab user, but I've changed over to using spaces exclusively, and
really like the consistency in appearance no matter which editor I'm using or
what the tab settings are. FWIW.
/Jelks
Sebastian Lange a ?crit:
This ist number three |Ich bin der dritte
For the same reasons |Mir geht's genauso...
/ \ This was TMTM (The Megabyte Text Magician)
/ norbert@globenet.org
/ http://www.globenet.org/periph
/ http://www.globenet.org/fora/tmtm
If this is going to be implemented, my vote would be to make it an
option. I like to use an editor that does not accept tabs at all, and
treats the Tab key as a signal to insert a given number of spaces. It
would just ignore any tabs in pretty-print output.
Jack
MvTools, a Miva/HTML editor -- FREE, at
I absolutely agree - a possible solution would be to extend the
"indent-spaces" configuration directive to accept not only numbers as
values but also boolean or string values:
examples:
indent-spaces: 4
indent-spaces: no // maybe too confusing?
indent-spaces: tab
I would never vote for replacing a good thing with another good thing, but
rather allow the choice between both of them...
Sebastian
