Hi folks -- anyone got any pointers to references/material on how
to test specific pieces of software to see if they are
"accessible" (for common definitions of the word)? I need to gather
some things to show my QA/testing folks that they can understand.
--Kynn
Kynn Bartlett kynn@reef.com
Technical Developer Liaison
Reef North America
Tel +1 949-567-7006
ACCESSIBILITY IS DYNAMIC. TAKE CONTROL.
Kynn --
I would highly recommend that you purchase a couple of usability books -- go
to Jakob Nielsen's site for references (http://www.useit.com). His book on
Web Usability provides an outline for conducting tests. Jared Spool's
company, UI Engineering here in Mass is a great resource.
The best overall usability site is http://usableweb.com/ created by Keith
Instone. Lots of papers and reference material here. Keep in mind that both
Lila Laux and Shawn Henry are members of this list. Both are proffessional
usability engineers. I believe that Kitch Barnacle at Trace has a strong
background in usability engineering. Jutta Treviranus and folks up at ATRC
also have a strong background in usability testing. WebABLE, Inc. provides
usability testing and inspections as part of it's core service offerings.
What you're not going to find is an measurable quantity of
usability/accessibility reference material. Unfortunately, there are very
few people involved in this area. It is my personal profession, as I believe
it is for Lila and Shawn. So specific resources tend to be thin.
However, the usability processes and methodologies created to perform
quality usability testing can be employed with/for people with disabilities.
The key is accommodatation. I have found this to be the greatest challenge
for mainstream usability companies.
Hope this helps.
- Mike
There is Microsoft's
Testing Guidelines for Accessibility
Steve
Steve McCaffrey
Senior Programmer/Analyst
Information Technology Services
New York State Department of Education
(518)-473-3453
smccaffr@mail.nysed.gov
Member,
New York State Workgroup on Accessibility to Information Technology
Web Design Subcommittee
Wow, what a great resource Mike's reply is!
Just one little thing. I got lost just at the end.
Can you expand just a bit on what you mean by 'accomodation' in this
sentence?
What is it that the mainstream of usability skills and practice doesn't quite
prepare you for in doing disability access evaluations?
Al
From: w3c-wai-ig-request@w3.org
[ mailto:w3c-wai-ig-request@w3.org%5DOn mailto:w3c-wai-ig-request@w3.org]On
Thanks for the kind thoughts Al. Regarding my experience with accommodations
for user testing involving people with disabilities, I note the following:
1. Usability testing methods employ several different techniques -- but the
key to all of them is direct interaction with the test participant. So,
problem number one is: Most usability companies have limited or no access to
users with disabilities. There is limited communication and/or experience in
using people with disabilities as test subjects.
2. Many usability testing and design practices require user feedback, user
interviews, user observation. Thus, usability testing labs are often set up
to record test sessions via video and audio. These labs are rarely set up to
be intrinsically accessible themselves. Labs don't accomodate wheelchairs;
computer systems don't include screen readers, magnifiers, etc...
3. Usability engineers are great "people, people". They usually understand
the natural difficulties and user needs of people without disabilities --
but their awareness of the disability cultures is weak at best, often
awkward. This is problematic in that it leads to what I call the "natural
selection process" -- they rarely, if ever, include people with disabilities
in their standard testing practices. (For those lurking, this is *not*
intended to be an absolute -- just a personal observation and opinion)
4. Awareness -- we in the disabilities communities (personal and
professional) have done little to educate the usability community. This
needs to be stepped up considerably. I believe Harvey Bingham's recent study
in this area proves this very point. I hold myself responsible because I
have been in this field for close to 10 years now. I should be doing much
more. Unfortunately, the economy demands otherwise.
But, as I noted, WebABLE, Inc., (as well as Optavia) has made it part of our
general service offerings to our clients. And, I am making it a point to
include in all my presentations, seminars, and workshops, as well as
writings. We have other plans for the near future that I believe will help
promote this very important need.
- Mike
-----Original Message-----
From: w3c-wai-ig-request@w3.org
w3.org]On
Already have all of the mentioned...
Yeah, I'm kinda getting that picture. :p I specifically could use
something that says "this is how we tested our software to ensure
accessibility" and I haven't found that -- yet.
--Kynn
Kynn Bartlett kynn@reef.com
Technical Developer Liaison
Reef North America
Tel +1 949-567-7006
ACCESSIBILITY IS DYNAMIC. TAKE CONTROL.
I would bet that Kitch, Jutta, and Shawn can get you things. I will send you
things I've done as well.
-Mike
From: Kynn Bartlett [mailto:kynn@reef.com]
Sent: Wednesday, March 07, 2001 10:02 AM
Subject: RE: Process/Procedure for Accessibility Testing of Software
Hi Kynn,
Look at IBM's software accessibility information. It's quite extensive.
I've found the Microsoft software accessibility guidelines to be very much
geared to developers writing applications for Windows.
The IBM Accessibility Center:
At MIT we are in the process of creating a software accessibility policy,
guidelines and recommendations for both software purchasers and developers
and are referring to the IBM guidelines. We are combining these with our
Web access policy and recommendations. So many applications these days have
Web front ends that the line is getting blurry. WGBH/NCAM has also released
great guidelines for accessible software for education at:
The best resource with links to these sites and more is the Trace page at:
Sun has info for developers about software accessibility at:
-jean-
There is a start on it as part of techniques for ATAG: Techniques for
Evaluating Authoring Tool Accessibility at
(The idea is that we will make this more complete and it will be a part of
the ATAG techniques in a new draft)
comments and contributions very welcome by the way - please send them to
w3c-wai-au@w3.org
cheers
Charles McCN
I would bet that Kitch, Jutta, and Shawn can get you things. I will send you
things I've done as well.
-Mike
From: Kynn Bartlett [mailto:kynn@reef.com]
Sent: Wednesday, March 07, 2001 10:02 AM
Subject: RE: Process/Procedure for Accessibility Testing of Software
Location: I-cubed, 110 Victoria Street, Carlton VIC 3053, Australia
(or W3C INRIA, Route des Lucioles, BP 93, 06902 Sophia Antipolis Cedex, France)
