Gregg
Gregg C Vanderheiden Ph.D.
Professor - Ind. Engr. &amp; BioMed Engr.
Director - Trace R &amp; D Center
University of Wisconsin-Madison
From: public-comments-wcag20-request@w3.org
[mailto:public-comments-wcag20-request@w3.org] On Behalf Of Dillon Debidin
Subject: Suggestion for this Editorial Note
Editorial Note: We are looking for a word to replace "page" that applies
across technologies. For visual applications, "screen" would apply, but
would not apply for speech-based technologies such as VoiceXML.
How about 'media'
Print media
Paper media
Screen media
Voice/Speech media
To The Group -
We've had this discusion before and it's going to remain confusing. When I think of what page means with regard to web pages, I take it to mean the actual document (no matter how long it takes to scroll from beginning to end) and its (if any) associated forms, buttons, embedded media, etc. I beleive a page is a single document.
My thoughts and I believe I responded the same way some time ago.
Doyle
Gregg
Gregg C Vanderheiden Ph.D.
Professor - Ind. Engr. &amp; BioMed Engr.
Director - Trace R &amp; D Center
University of Wisconsin-Madison
Editorial Note: We are looking for a word to replace "page" that applies across technologies. For visual applications, "screen" would apply, but would not apply for speech-based technologies such as VoiceXML.
How about 'media'
Print media
Paper media
Screen media
Voice/Speech media
Gregg asked:
Editorial Note: We are looking for a word to replace "page" that applies
across technologies. For visual applications, "screen" would apply, but
would not apply for speech-based technologies such as VoiceXML.
How about 'media'
Print media
Paper media
Screen media
Voice/Speech media
"Media" is too broad in my opinion. "Media" has many different meanings. One
of which is "means of mass communication". This is the meaning in which the
word is used almost exclusively in the Netherlands. I can imagine many
people confusing "print media" with newspapers, "screen media" with TV,
"speech media" with radio, etc.
Also, the word "media" doesn't make sense in the context we're using page at
the moment:
"Organize content consistently from "page to page" ..."
becomes
"Organize content consistently from media to media ..." which has a totally
different meaning from which we want to say. "From media to media" sounds to
me like you have to make sure the content is organized consistently between
different types of media.
My suggestion is to work around the problem by eliminating the reference to
pages altogether:
Guideline 3.2:
Organize content consistently throughout the resource and make interactive
components behave in predictable ways.
Level 2, SC 1:
Components that are repeated in different places within the resource occur
in the same sequence each time they are repeated, for at least one
presentation format.
Level 2, SC 3:
Changing the setting of any input field should not automatically cause an
http://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20/#extreme-changedef extreme change in context
such as changing the current location within the resource.
Level 2, SC 4:
Interactive elements that appear in different places within the resource,
including graphical elements, are associated with the same functionality
wherever they appear.
The old phrasing only talked about consistent behavior between pages, but
why narrow it to that? Within a page, you do not want the same interactive
element associatiated with different functionality either.That's why I like
"in different places within the resource" better than "in multiple pages".
Yvette Hoitink
Heritas, Enschede, the Netherlands
E-mail: y.p.hoitink@heritas.nl
WWW: http://www.heritas.nl
This one's going to spiral out of control if you're not careful. It
already carries a strong whiff of anti-design ideology.
"Resource" is surely better than page, though.
You could have two or three links to a homepage using different forms.
Besides, we often talk about alternatives in accessibility.
Joe Clark | joeclark@joeclark.org
Accessibility http://joeclark.org/access/
Expect criticism if you top-post
Joe Clark wrote in response to my suggestion:
Two or three different types of links to a homepage wouldn't violate that
rule because they are different interactive elements associated with the
same functionality. That's exactly the reverse case of the criterion I'm
describing: the _same_ element associated with _different_ functionality.
An (extreme) example of a violation of this criterion would be two links
called "Home", one going to the homepage of the current subsection of the
website and one going to the homepage of the overall website. This would be
hard to understand for most people, let alone people with a learning
disability.
Yvette hoitink
Heritas, Enschede, the Netherlands
E-mail: y.p.hoitink@heritas.nl
WWW: http://www.heritas.nl
I don't see the ideology Joe refers to, but I agree that scoping this
requirement is very difficult.
Hmm. It's better in that it encompasses things like VoiceXML dialogues
(albeit not very precisely) but it isn't as clear as "page" in situations
where peopla are accustomed to think of pages. I don't think it is better,
but don't think it's worse, either.
For what it's worth, I do think "media" is a bad suggestion - it is generally
understood as an abstract noun either referring to the things that are used
to communicate, in general (such as "mixed media", "traditional media as
compared to the web...") or as a collective term for those involved in
journalism and entertainment (such as "the portrayal of australians and
canadians by the media").
You could. In many cases I think this appraoch is not a good way to make
things better for users. But the problem of having something that appears to
be the same and links to two or three different destinations strikes me as
worse.
On the positive side, if we embrace the kind of dictionary-lookup and
re-modelling approaches that the semantic web can provide, it might be
relatively easy for designers to build things which have both of the types of
variation I just described, and provide easy means for people who are just
trying to get work done to turn it off and see things in a simpler way
(beyond basic stuff like styling, which I would imagine is already obvious to
people on this list).
Yes, and I think we talk too little about the reality that people who are
working with incosistent alternative versions of the same thing have trouble
working together. The late Len Kasday used to talk about this (but then he
had to actually solve the problem for a large, real-world application, and
did so).
cheers
Chaals
I believe I was the one who introduced the word "resource." I don't
particularly like it, but my earlier use of the word "page" was
critiqued (appropriately) because it didn't allow for situations where
there was no page, such as Voice XML applications. So I used the term
"resource" because it was more general, I had heard it before in
reference to Web-thingies, and I couldn't think of anything better.More
recently, the talk about aggregation has (in my view) made the case for
the more general term even more compelling.
John
"Good design is accessible design."
Please note our new name and URL!
John Slatin, Ph.D.
Director, Accessibility Institute
University of Texas at Austin
FAC 248C
1 University Station G9600
Austin, TX 78712
ph 512-495-4288, f 512-495-4524
email jslatin@mail.utexas.edu
web http://www.utexas.edu/research/accessibility/
Behalf Of Yvette P. Hoitink
Joe Clark wrote in response to my suggestion:
Two or three different types of links to a homepage wouldn't violate
that rule because they are different interactive elements associated
with the same functionality. That's exactly the reverse case of the
criterion I'm
describing: the _same_ element associated with _different_
functionality.
An (extreme) example of a violation of this criterion would be two links
called "Home", one going to the homepage of the current subsection of
the website and one going to the homepage of the overall website. This
would be hard to understand for most people, let alone people with a
learning disability.
Yvette hoitink
Heritas, Enschede, the Netherlands
E-mail: y.p.hoitink@heritas.nl
WWW: http://www.heritas.nl
