greg PROPFIND is for fetching properties. REPORT is for fetching information
about the server, its layout/organization, for multiple disparate
resources
and data, etc. /greg
The spec currently says REPORT is for fetching properties of a resource
that require additional parameters, PROPFIND for properties that don't
require parameters. So why not just add the parameters to PROPFIND?
We're getting many requests to reduce the number of methods. While I'm not
always sympathetic to this, REPORT looks like a good candidate. The WebDAV
working group seemed to prefer this approach. What do others think?
From: "Jim Amsden" jamsden@us.ibm.com
greg PROPFIND is for fetching properties. REPORT is for fetching
information about the server, its layout/organization, for multiple
disparate resources and data, etc. /greg
The spec currently says REPORT is for fetching properties of a resource
that require additional parameters, PROPFIND for properties that don't
require parameters. So why not just add the parameters to PROPFIND?
To be precise, the spec currently says REPORT is for obtaining
"information" about a resource. I personally find the idea of a
"parameterized property" a bit of a stretch, but might be willing
to make that stretch except for the DTD problem I pointed out in
an earlier message.
So I'm currently in the "have a REPORT method" camp.
We're getting many requests to reduce the number of methods. While I'm
not always sympathetic to this, REPORT looks like a good candidate. The
WebDAV working group seemed to prefer this approach. What do others
think?
Actually, I think the requests are to add *no* new methods, not to
reduce the number of methods. I don't think anyone has said that it
helps them to add a smaller number of methods (i.e. if you're adding
one, you can add an arbitrary number).
Cheers,
Geoff
A good chance, I suppose, to clarify what I think:
- PROPFIND should be used to ask for a list of properties on a resource, or
a set of resources, including version-controlled resources or version
resources. My last mail had a suggested syntax that does not break RFC2518.
This involved adding only one XML element, very simple extension to
PROPFIND. Additionally, the response will be entirely compatible with 2518,
no different than an existing PROPFIND response.
- If that means that CORE versioning servers do not have to support REPORT,
so much the better. It will make it easy for simple servers to implement
CORE. To this end, I suggest that CORE should not require REPORT support
but instead require support of a simple version specification element in
the PROPFIND request body.
- REPORT is preferable, when EITHER the request information is not easily
marshalled via PROPFIND, OR the response format cannot be a
straight-forward listing of href and property sets (propfind response).
E.g. merge-preview-report, compare-report, version-selector-url-report
(from deltav draft 10)
-- Lisa
[mailto:ietf-dav-versioning-request@w3.org]On Behalf Of Jim Amsden
greg PROPFIND is for fetching properties. REPORT is for fetching
information
about the server, its layout/organization, for multiple disparate resources
and data, etc. /greg
The spec currently says REPORT is for fetching properties of a resource that
require additional parameters, PROPFIND for properties that don't require
parameters. So why not just add the parameters to PROPFIND?
We're getting many requests to reduce the number of methods. While I'm not
always sympathetic to this, REPORT looks like a good candidate. The WebDAV
working group seemed to prefer this approach. What do others think?
