These are notes
in brief:
A split the guidelines into those meeting people's needs and those
concerned with UI.
B provide working examples
C mention cultural issues
D encourage automated navigation (storytelling)
E encourage use of appropriate images
F dilectics
G priamble
A split the guidelines into those meeting people's needs and those
concerned with UI.
The guidelines are split between meeting the different needs of users
and the different abilities of their computer interfaces (UIs)
people 1,2,4,7,12,13,14
machines 2,3,5,6,8,9,10,11
That is my first impression, and at this stage of our understanding that
is a mess.
It is crucial that people can find the information they require.
Just as the techniques have been separated, peoples needs and machine
abilities must be separated.
This will lead to some duplication, people must come first.
B provide working examples
It is important that the guidelines are a good example of what they
intend
Guideline 3 has two useful examples ie
(using a table for layout or a header to change the font size)
(e.g., constructing what looks like a table of data with an HTML PRE
element)
However they are textual rather than graphical..
^ are excellent tools for navigation once learnt.
However, it is not clear how one navigates without a scroll bar, though
javascript could provide screensize and v could provide next page, for
those with javascript.
Naturally this means there should be bad examples.
Why not have an example of an irritating and meaningless flickering
animation, with a disable button.
There is frequent mention of the need to cater for cognitive disablity,
but no link to the example guideline site.
C mention cultural issues
Where is the mention of cultural artifact. Most of our students live in
flats, but house/home is still gingerbread style.
Chopsticks/KFS... white weddings/funerals... Some of these concerns are
cross-media.
D encourage automated navigation (storytelling)
gl 7.
People with physical disabilities might not be able to move quickly or
accurately enough to interact with moving objects.
In fact people with physical+cognitive disabilities need more specific
motivation. Moving objects are better able to provide a context. Scroll
bars are a complete barrier to many.
7.1,7.2 excellent
Perhaps mention should be made of the need to provide programmatic
movement through a site with a speed control. (also covers 7.3, 7.4,
7.5)
gl 10. automated navigation is essential for some users see 7
E encourage use of appropriate images
gl 1
Provide equivalent alternatives to auditory and visual content.
The porisma or corollary is that we MUST provide visual content that is
equivalent, and this is very much more time consuming and difficult.
Providing non-text equivalents (e.g., pictures, videos, and
pre-recorded audio) of text is also beneficial to some users, especially
nonreaders or people who have difficulty reading.
This rather brief in comparison and does not discuss the inherent
difficulties, it is certainly not rated a 'must'.
14.2  Supplement text with graphic or auditory presentations where they
will facilitate comprehension of the page.
why is this not priority 1?
This is hardly encouraging, a picture tells a thousand words, in many
cases pictures are a huge benefit. Non-readers, children...
For the sighted vision is a large part of their native (pre-educational)
understanding. People with cognitive disability make extensive use of
this ability, in order to navigate the real world. Making use of this
ability offers an opportunity to enhance education.
This area is extremely complex and needs enormous expansion.
F dilectics
The Guidelines seem to occasionally and regularly miss out on dilectical
arguments, that is if a group needs, or has a problem with one feature,
it is almost certain that another group will need that feature disabled
or actioned.
(I use porisma in a similar sense to corollary, but where the solution
is either irrational, or difficult to attain.)
G priamble
The following notes concern the priamble, they are not guideline notes
but 'chapter' notes.
1.0
They may have difficulty reading or comprehending text.
Excellent, but having noted a disability, it is important to meet its
needs.
2.1...
Provide text (including text equivalents). Text can be rendered in ways
that are available to almost all browsing devices and accessible to
almost all users.
This plainly does not help those with cognitive difficulties
why is the opposite not mentioned ie providing pictures and sounds?
4.
Each checkpoint has a priority level assigned by the Working Group
based on the checkpoint's impact on accessibility.
Says who, no but seriously this needs to be expanded. ie are we just
identifying what is possible?
JC:: "This plainly does not help those with cognitive difficulties
why is the opposite not mentioned ie providing pictures and sounds?"
WL: It is "mentioned" but since there is no *widely useful, acceptable*
way to do it objectively there is nothing to do but hold these kinds of
discussions and hope that something useful develops - as of now there is
not universally understood graphical communication method - your
KFS/chopsticks example is almost enough proof of that.
JC:: "...are we just identifying what is possible?"
WL: Absolutely. That may be unfortunate and deplorable but dealing in
the *not possible*(yet?) may get grants but it won't feed the bulldogs.
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
At an early stage in the development of the guidelines it was decided that
examples should be contained either in the techniques document, or in a
sample web site that would be supposed to illustrate the techniques. The
techniques document has been well prepared by the editors, but to my
knowledge, no one has yet constructed a sample web site, and indeed it
lies entirely outside this group's charter (this is probably another
action item for EO).
I am not currently privy to decisions as to the method of communication
determined by w3c for their site.
However if you have tried flash3 it has an excellent interactive tutorial.
It is not impossible to provide text alternatives, however difficult.
SimCity as I remember, about 25 years ago was available as a text game.
Today it is used by city planners, the text version is not abandoned, just
less accessible to the majority.
The gl site does use   and ^ someone decided these icons were acceptable.
Prefferred learning method is a user centred term referring to different
peoples chosen method of studying. Some like command line structure, others
prefer gui.
By only admitting one method wai is not accommodating a large part of the
community. It happens that non-readers are near one extreme.
It is evident that if this is to be actioned, much of the site would be
effected, including ig, gl and eo.
jay@peepo.com
Please send us links to your favourite websites.
Our site www.peepo.com is a drive thru.
When you see a link of interest, click on it.
Move the mouse to slow down.
It is a graphical aid to browsing the www.
We value your comments.
JC:: "It is not impossible to provide text alternatives, however
difficult."
WL: How about "meaningful" or "widely understood" text alternatives? If
that's not "impossible" then please show an *EXAMPLE* using some
significant portion of the WAI site. We are not saying that we
*shouldn't* do it, but that we "can't" and there is still no evidence to
the contrary. Even just using text there is a running thread about
misunderstandings in many checkpoints so that a "popularized" version
beyond the QuickTips cards has been bruted about - to go another step
and make the presentation simultaneously ideographic is, at least in
practical terms, in fact *impossible*. Please, prove me wrong.
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
We are using Flash three and are putting ALT tags in the embedded object.
problems
acceptable.
others
Jonathan,
currently the way we do our site is for the staff to include keeping it up to
date and workable as part of their workload. That seems to have problems
already in how much we can do.
Actually WAI is reviewing its site, but the forum is the education and
outreach group. If you have time to provide input there as well as gl it
would be appreciated, otherwise those of us on both groups will try to ensure
that the best thinking we have in GL is put into practise on our own site.
cheers
Charles
I am not currently privy to decisions as to the method of communication
determined by w3c for their site.
However if you have tried flash3 it has an excellent interactive tutorial.
It is not impossible to provide text alternatives, however difficult.
SimCity as I remember, about 25 years ago was available as a text game.
Today it is used by city planners, the text version is not abandoned, just
less accessible to the majority.
The gl site does use   and ^ someone decided these icons were acceptable.
Prefferred learning method is a user centred term referring to different
peoples chosen method of studying. Some like command line structure, others
prefer gui.
By only admitting one method wai is not accommodating a large part of the
community. It happens that non-readers are near one extreme.
It is evident that if this is to be actioned, much of the site would be
effected, including ig, gl and eo.
jay@peepo.com
Please send us links to your favourite websites.
Our site www.peepo.com is a drive thru.
When you see a link of interest, click on it.
Move the mouse to slow down.
It is a graphical aid to browsing the www.
We value your comments.
--Charles McCathieNevile mailto:charles@w3.org
W3C Web Accessibility Initiative http://www.w3.org/WAI
MIT/LCS - 545 Technology sq., Cambridge MA, 02139, USA
I have used Jonathan's comments where he breaks out the checkpoints
according to people and machines and applied them to the excel spreadsheet
This might put these into perspective. please see the worksheet
"Applicability". Let me know if you need a HTML version and I can post it as
soon as I hear back form Jonathon on this question, "Checkpopint 2 as both
People and Machines. Jonathon, is this correct?"
rob
