The reason for asking for a separate draft is because of a combination
of factors, none of which depend on this being a 'big' idea: there is
not yet apparent consensus on the idea, and also, so far we are
handling proposed extensions to HTTP with separate drafts.
The proposal changes frequently (Friday it was 'redo-safe', today it
is 'safe') and it won't be clear what we're asking for consensus on
until there is an internet draft on which we do Last Call.
If we don't have a separate draft and apparent consensus on that
separate draft, then we won't be able to add this to the standard.
You might think it's unfair that proposals that were made before
HTTP/1.1 became 'proposed standard' didn't require this extra level of
nonsense, but this kind of inertia is necessary to achieve stability.
It is not an issue of unfairness, but simply misperception of
the situation. I can see now that a separate draft was required for
addition of a header (idempotent- redo-safe- safe) or method (repost)
from the outset of his discussion.
It might be better, then, if Roy and Koen finished their
discussion of what we have term the "rel=source alternative", and
a qualifed group of people took on the issue of safe, private and
secure storage of post-content, and mechanisms or re-using it via
a bookmark-like facility, beyond the simple, "first step" I was
suggesting. Ideally, this should be done in coordination with the
W3C ERB. It seems inappropriate to undertake an IETF ID that is
likely to involve new HTML markup or at least naming conventions
under circumstances where the IETF no longer has a clear role in
the development and standarization of HTML.
Fote
Foteos Macrides Worcester Foundation for Biomedical Research
MACRIDES@SCI.WFBR.EDU 222 Maple Avenue, Shrewsbury, MA 01545
Foteos Macrides:
I too have been waiting for Roy (or Larry) to comment on my objections
to rel=source. I have been thinking about writing a `safe: yes'
mini-ID in case nobody else volunteers, but would like to see the
`rel=source' issue settled first.
I personally have little interest in taking the work beyond a `safe:
yes' mini-ID. I don't think a bookmarking standard would create much
added value.
Koen.
Your objection was that returning a safe URL for the redo, as opposed
to an indication that the form data is safe to be reposted, is too much
of a burden on CGI authors.
My response is that I don't care -- CGI authors will need to do at least
that much work, if not more, to ensure that the POST action is indeed
safely repost-able, and having them actually decode the semantics of
the original request is the best way to ensure that. Lazy CGI developers
create security holes and protocol meltdown, so I have no desire to
coddle to their needs. People who don't want to do the work can just
live with the annoying "do you really want to repost this form?" query --
there is no loss of functionality. The side benefit is the definition
and implementation of various forms of Link, which is something we need
for almost every major enhancement currently under discussion for the Web
(collaboration, annotation, link maintenance, style sheets, ...).
I have no interest in discussing any lesser issue -- my only purpose in
discussing this one was to inform folks on the variety of ways that
were already defined to do the same thing. Once you know what options
are available, there's not much else I can contribute to the discussion.
I don't see any reason to standardize something that is no more than a
midnight hack, at least until someone convinces the midnight hackers
out there to implement it. Either way, it isn't something I'm willing
to spend time on, nor is it necessary for me, or even the IETF, to approve
of something before it is implemented in practice.
Cheers,
...Roy T. Fielding
Department of Information &amp; Computer Science (fielding@ics.uci.edu)
After some reflection, I realized that this concern might be in the
domain of User Agent Hints as a more general category. So for starters,
I'd suggest;
UA-Hints: safe=[yes|no]
And then I'd propose adding some server requests re history list
handling:
history=no : This response SHOULD NOT be included in a UA
history list.
history=noredo: Show the current response in the history list
w/o ever reperforming the request. RELOAD/REFRESH
by the user follows safe= semantics.
history=refresh: Never reshow the current response, rather
repeat the request or at least check it.
history=replace: The page from which the current response was
requested is replaced. This is similar to =no except
that =no causes the next page to replace while
=replace allows the current response to replace the
previous page
The default would be the current haphazzard muddle implemented by the
individual UAs.
The control these options (including safe=) would greatly improve the
usability of three complex WWW applications I've assisted in the
development of.
Dave Morris
Roy T. Fielding:
[Koen:]
Yes, that was my main objection.
Nonsense. Many POST actions are safe by nature, and if POST is to be
used for i18n, many more will be. Examples are POSTs to search
engines and to HTML checkers with a forms interface.
I care little about the side benefits on the status of Link. I want
something which promotes i18n, and `safe: yes' is better at that.
I don't think i18n is a lesser issue.
So tell me where to look for the existing definition of `rel=source',
like I asked. I might even copy it into the `safe: yes' ID.
_Some_ headers can be deployed without IETF action, but `safe: yes' is
not one of them. As long as `safe: yes' is not approved by the IETF,
any browser which uses it as a license to treat a POST as safe would
be clearly non-conformant to the 1.1 protocol.
Koen.
If we waited until everybody had a 'clear role', we'd never get
anything done. An "Internet Draft" is just a working document, and
the only reason for having one is so that we can have a discussion
where the referent in the discussion is concrete. Too often there's a
long mail interchange where someone makes a proposal and then changes
it 10 times during the discussion, and then someone else says "I
really like it" and other people don't know which 'it' is really the
final 'it'. If something is going to happen on this, *someone* must
write an Internet draft describing what that someone wants to have
happen.
We've gone on about this for a long time. I would like to declare this
topic closed until there is a volunteer to write up and submit an
internet draft. If you would like to volunteer, let me know.
Regards,
Larry
