Hello Everyone,
I'm trying to gather information on colleges and universities that have
explicit policies on accessible web page design. If you know of a college
or university with some sort of policy statement on the topic please share
either an URL or the actual document with me. It is probably better to
reply to me privately at kford@teleport.com as opposed to the group at
large. I'll be happy to share the results of my inquiry with the list if
there's suitable response.
Thanks,
Kelly
This question is a perfect opportunity to get some feedback on behalf of
Utah State University and our new initiative which we have dubbed "Web
Accessibility in Mind" (WebAIM).
Utah State University is about to implement a Web Accessibility policy by
the end of the calendar year. I have been a part of the decision-making
process in that regard. Our first instinct was to require Priority 1
accessibility, but after taking a second look at the issues, we decided to
implement most of Priority 2 as well. The only exclusions (in the draft)
were the following:
1. Tables for layout (Priority 2, 5.3). Strictly speaking, a website can be
Priority 2 compliant and use tables for layout (if the table linearizes
well). However, our main reason for deciding to be somewhat leniant on the
issue of using stylesheets for layout (as opposed to tables) has to do with
poor browser support. At some point in the future, we will reexamine this
issue.
2. Applets and scripts (Priority 2, 6.4, 7.3, 8.1, 9.2, 9.3). Although we
realize that inaccessible applets are a real issue, the scarcity of
accessible java programs, perl scripts, etc. led us to be leniant in this
area as well. Retrofitting existing scripts and applets to accessibility
requirements is a large burden. Perhaps we could require that all _new_
scripts be accessible?
Because this initiative is only a draft at this point, revisions can be
made, and I welcome your feedback.
Paul Bohman
Technology Specialist
Web Accessibility in Mind
Utah State University
college
Paul, I'd like to applaud you for a sensible approach to the web
accessibility policy issue -- an accessibility policy needs to be
more than simply "all the p1s" or "all the p1s and p2s" or "all the
checkpoints, period", and instead has to consider each one
individually and arrive at the best solution for your site and your
needs.
Priority 1s are must-haves, but every organization should carefully
consider the P2s and the P3s as well. Paul, did Utah State look at
any of the P3s? Some of them are so trivially easy to do (e.g.
LANG="en" on the HTML tag) that doing them is simply a matter of
decent templates, while others involve a greater degree of work.
Kynn Bartlett mailto:kynn@hwg.org
President, HTML Writers Guild http://www.hwg.org/
AWARE Center Director http://aware.hwg.org/
Hi,
Does your policy address services provided to your college web site by
external vendors? The reason I'm seeking accessible web policies is to
help gain some support for my view that a service my employer has
contracted with to put a college bookstore online must be accessible or
provide an accessible alternative service.
Hi, Kelly and Paul, I would be interested in this too. As I mentioned
earlier this month, the HTML Writers Guild (obviously not a college,
but at least, an educational organization) has recently adopted a
policy similar to that which you describe -- we require that our
"partners" who provide services to our members do so in an accessible
way, so as not to exclude our HWG members who have disabilities.
Kynn Bartlett mailto:kynn@hwg.org
President, HTML Writers Guild http://www.hwg.org/
AWARE Center Director http://aware.hwg.org/
Your question is a good one. As it stands right now, our policy does not
directly address the issue of external vendors, and I thank you for
reminding me of the importance of this issue.
In our case, there are few instances of web content which has been handled
through external vendors. Nearly everything has been home grown. The most
significant exception to that statement is the use of Web CT in some online
courses. The use of Web CT has presented a dilemma in our task of drafting
accessibility policies. Web CT, as it is now, is not a disability-friendly
program. In fact, this program is one of the reasons why we decided to be
leniant with existing scripts and applets. The university has a lot of money
and effort tied into courses in that program. The problem is that our draft
does not prescribe a method for making sure that the Web CT content will--at
some point--be accessible. Even though we realized this when we wrote the
draft, the issue has not yet been fully resolved. Thank you for once again
bringing the question to the forefront.
I am likely to propose that all new contracts with external vendors include
an accessibility clause, and that provisions be made to somehow gradually
move existing scripts/applets in that direction. We'll have to figure out
the most appropriate wording, timeline, etc. for that kind of action.
Paul Bohman
Technology Specialist
Web Accessibility in Mind
Utah State University
Thank you for the support.
Yes and no. As the list of U.S.U. web accessibility requirements grew (from
Priority 1 to most of Priority 2), I wanted to make sure that I wasn't
pushing my luck within the group. As of yet, I have not formally recommended
any of the Priority 3 checkpoints. Luckily, I am the one drafting the policy
and I have some freedom with regard to its wording and criteria. The policy
is due for official review next week, and, in accordance with your
suggestion, I will revisit the Priority 3 guidelines.
You mentioned the language attribute. Which other checkpoints from Priority
3 would you recommend as system-wide requirements? I open this question up
to the group (...keeping in mind that one of my goals is to not instigate a
major backlash from existing webmasters that would frustrate my efforts).
Paul Bohman
Technology Specialist
Web Accessibility in Mind
Utah State University
The ones I feel are most "sensible" as system-wide requirements include:
4.2 Specify the expansion of each abbreviation or acronym in a document
where it first occurs.
4.3 Identify the primary natural language of a document.
13.5 Provide navigation bars to highlight and give access to the
navigation mechanism.
13.7 If search functions are provided, enable different types of
searches for different skill levels and preferences.
14.2 Supplement text with graphic or auditory presentations where they
will facilitate comprehension of the page.
14.3 Create a style of presentation that is consistent across pages.
These are all either easy to do (relative to the value they provide)
or just common sense rules of web design or writing. You shouldn't
shy away from making them requirements on your site simply because
they have a the P3 label.
Kynn Bartlett mailto:kynn@hwg.org
President, HTML Writers Guild http://www.hwg.org/
AWARE Center Director http://aware.hwg.org/
aloha, paul!
quote
You mentioned the language attribute. Which other checkpoints from Priority
3 would you recommend as system-wide requirements? I open this question
up to the group
unquote
to which i respond, here is a list of items that should have been accorded
a higher priority level than the P3 with which they were classified by
WCAG, and which are particularly important means of providing access to
information in an academic setting
1. Checkpoint 4.2 "Specify the expansion of each abbreviation or acronym in
a document where it first occurs" -- -- you should, however, stress that it
is most important to use ABBR in documents where there are 2 instances of
the same abbreviation (such as quote d r period unquote, or "Dr." which can
mean "doctor" as well as "drive", depending on context); the same caveat
applies to ACRONYMs
2. Checkpoints 9.4 "Create a logical tab order through links, form
controls, and objects." and 9.5: "Provide keyboard shortcuts to important
links (including those in client-side image maps), form controls, and
groups of form controls" -- in other words, use TABINDEX and ACCESSKEY in
client-side image maps and in forms (Note: you will also need to require
that when ACCESSKEYs are defined for an image map or form, that a list of
ACCESSKEYs must also be provided, and linked to the form or the image map,
so that users know that the ACCESSKEYs exist; a TABINDEX order listing is
also highly recommended)
3. Checkpoint 11.3 "Provide information so that users may receive documents
according to their preferences (e.g., language, content type, etc.)" --
basically, use META data; this will vastly improve any internal search
facility your site may implement, which is an extremely important
consideration when working in an academic setting
4. Checkpoint 13.6 "Group related links, identify the group (for user
agents), and, until user agents do so, provide a way to bypass the group"
-- make a "Skip NavBar" link the first item in the navigation bar; if the
navigational controls take the form of an image map, make the first link "A
List of AccessKeys for this Page" (refer also to point 2 above) and the
second link "Skip NavBar"
5. Checkpoint 14.3 "Create a style of presentation that is consistent
across pages. " -- this is a basic principle of usability, as well as
accessibility
6. Checkpoint 5.5 "Provide summaries for tables." -- this is not only
important for tables used to present tabular data, but since you have
decided to allow the use of tables for layout, you should use the SUMMARY
attribute to indicate that the table is used for layout, so that the user
of A.T. can take appropriate steps... of course, you should also ensure
that any content which is marked up in a table for layout purposes
linearizes comprehensibly...
i hope you find this information useful -- if you would like clarification
on any of these points, please let me know via the WAI-IG list,
gregory.
He that lives on Hope, dies farting
-- Benjamin Franklin, Poor Richard's Almanack, 1763
Gregory J. Rosmaita unagi69@concentric.net
WebMaster and Minister of Propaganda, VICUG NYC
This is actually just good writing practice as well. It's been a
requirement at all the publishing houses I've worked with for computer
books, and goes beyond just abbreviations and acronyms to include jargon
and technical words the average reader isn't likely to know (e.g. This past
year, John learned HTML, the HyperText Markup Language, which is used to
created Web pages. and Riboflavin, the vitamin more commonly known as
Vitamin B2, has the following properties.....)
The practice increases overall comprehension for everyone!
Ann
Re the policy on applets on scripts,
quote
unquote
It can be hard if the applet is actually interactively doing something,
e.g. it's a little physics simulation. But when applets are used
decoratively, e.g. to scroll text, it's pretty simple to have alterative
equivalent content that appears when applets are turned off (just put
alternative content between the last PARAM and the closing /applet . In
this case the alternative is merely the text that's scrolled, possibly
including links.
Similarly with some SCRIPTS where it's simple to have a NOSCRIPT.
Perhaps your guidelines could make this distinction and be tougher on the
simpler cases.
Thank you very much for bringing up this thread by the way (I'm also at a
University).
Len
Leonard R. Kasday, Ph.D.
Institute on Disabilities/UAP, and
Department of Electrical Engineering
Temple University
423 Ritter Annex, Philadelphia, PA 19122
kasday@acm.org
(215) 204-2247 (voice)
(800) 750-7428 (TTY)
I agree that this is good writing practice. I could use some clarification,
however. It seems to me that the guideline to which you refer has reference
to the HTML tags rather than inline text (e.g. acronym title="World Wide
Web" WWW /acronym ). Does the guideline also refer to inline text?
Paul Bohman
Technology Specialist
Web Accessibility in Mind
Utah State University
past
Your point is a good one. For the most part, however, it seems that the kind
of alternative content which you describe is already covered in Priority 1,
1.1. The way that I interpreted the Priority 2 reference to scripts and
applets was that the scripts/applets themselves had to be accessible as
opposed to an alternative format.
Paul Bohman
Technology Specialist
Web Accessibility in Mind
Utah State University
[...] when applets are used
decoratively, e.g. to scroll text, it's pretty simple to have alterative
equivalent content that appears when applets are turned off (just put
alternative content between the last PARAM and the closing /applet . In
this case the alternative is merely the text that's scrolled, possibly
including links.
Similarly with some SCRIPTS where it's simple to have a NOSCRIPT.
Perhaps your guidelines could make this distinction and be tougher on the
simpler cases.
