I want WAI (read well: WAI) to be very, very clear about what it truly
means here:
Work statement [1]: focused mainly on membership requirements for our task
force. People need to be members in good standing of the larger WCAG group
but can focus their time commitment to techniques, or split their time.
The membership requirements seem to have been unilaterally upgraded
overnight to read as follows:
Participation
Task Force participants must be participants in good standing of
the WCAG WG, should have experience with a Web technology (such as
HTML, CSS, or SVG), and must actively contribute to the work of the
Task Force, including:
* minimum 2 hours per week of Task Force work
* remain current on the mailing list and respond in a timely manner
to postings on mailing list
* participate in Task Force telephone meetings, or send regrets to
the list
* assist in preparing Task Force deliverables for discussion
Essentially, even to work on HTML techniques now requires one to be PiGS
(participant in good standing).
1. That was not the case before.
2. Is that really and truly what the World Wide Web Consortium wishes to
insist on now?
Answer question 2 very carefully indeed. The Web Accessibility Initiative
stands to permanently alienate contributors if it actually puts the
proposal into practice. Perhaps I should add a third question:
3. Is that the result WAI actually intends?
Public responses, to the list, *only*, please.
Joe Clark | joeclark@joeclark.org
Author, _Building Accessible Websites_
Joe,
Please note that this [1] is a draft, it is not final and we are still
discussing it. I have clarified this by adding the following disclaimer to
the beginning of the document: "This is a draft. This has not been approved
by the WCAG WG and is not operative. It is for discussion purposes
only. Please send comments to w3c-wai-gl@w3.org."
At Wednesday's meeting we discussed that if someone had to attend both
the techniques task force telecon *and* the WCAG WG telecon *and* keep up
on the mailing list, the minimum 4 hours of time expected to contribute
(per our charter) would be eaten up without doing any real
work. Therefore, it seems to make sense that a person could participate in
either the task force telecons or the WCAG WG telecons to be considered a
participant in good standing. However, we want to make sure that we are
not running two separate groups. The task force is not publishing its own
documents, it is working on documents for the WCAG WG. Keeping the two
groups in synch is key and overlapping participation helps.
Our policies will not change overnight or without warning. This is a draft
that was produced for discussion. This is part of the transition to
adopting our new charter and the new process document and, in the near
future, adopting the new patent policy. As part of this transition, other
aspects of our work will be discussed, better documented and revised.
--wendy
[1] http://www.w3.org/WAI/GL/2003/12/wttf.html
Work statement [1]: focused mainly on membership requirements for our task
force. People need to be members in good standing of the larger WCAG group
but can focus their time commitment to techniques, or split their time.
wendy a chisholm
world wide web consortium
web accessibility initiative
The Web Accessibility Initiative remains unable to see that:
1. the PiGS designation (participant in good standing) is inherently
elitist and filters out anyone who cannot afford the time or money for up
to 150 hours a year of long-distance telephone consultations and
face-to-face meetings. It is a method of *reducing* public participation.
2. an effort to impose PiGS requirements now is a convenient yet
suspicious method to limit participation in WCAG WG or Techniques WG or
any other working group. It is inherently contrary to the aims of the
Initiative, since it ensures that nobody but sinecurists with day jobs--
who are the existing WAI politburo anyway-- will ever be allowed to
contribute.
3. you can't polish a turd. Wendy's response--
-- is predicated on *keeping the proposed PiGS requirement*. We are not
talking about somewhat-more-palatable methods to meet the PiGS
requirements. I am telling you up front, as I have explained already, that
such a requirement *is the problen*.
4. WAI is acting as though there is something resembling agreement to
impose this requirement. The hastily-added proviso that it's all being
"discussed" does not eliminate the impression that it's a backroom deal
that's gonna be rammed through whether anyone likes it or not. The
existing WAI politburo, who are all WAI staff or PiGS anyway, obviously
will like the idea, because it doesn't affect them except inasmuch as it
solidifies the class structure of the Initiative. A requirement for PiGS
status keeps the riffraff out. And if you think I'm worried only about
myself, wait till I count up all the participants on the GL list who would
be excluded by this requirement.
*Throw out the plan*. There is nothing broken with the current
participation methods that needs fixing, and the cure is worse than the
disease.
This is an epochal decision that WAI seems to be laughing off. Screw this
up and it's gonna blow up in your faces. You will kneecap the entire Web
Content Accessibility Guidelines. If you thought you didn't have enough
WCAG proponents working to improve the Guidelines as it is, wait till you
start turning boosters into enemies. Becaus that is what's gonna happen.
Joe Clark | joeclark@joeclark.org
Author, _Building Accessible Websites_
Hey Joe,
I don't think so.
W3C is a consortium with a set of rules ("The Process Document")
designed to ensure that the massive variety of stakeholders get some
kind of accountability, whether or not they are actual members of the
Consortium. (This could be contrasted to many similar organisations
with similar impact that are not prepared to make themselves so open).
You can check these - they are published at
The participants in good standing stuff has been in the rules since WAI
began, and in every charter. If you join the group you are required to
state that you read the charter - it's about a page and a half. Some
minimal attention to what you are involved in might have been helpful
to ensure this didn't come as such a surprise. In other words, to join
the group you did explicitly agree to this already.
WAI seems to be very aware of the difficulty of participation and
remaining in good standing. The rules require attending teleconferences
or sending regrets, and being up to date on the mailing list. When I
have been in good standing it has generally been through following the
mailing list, and sending timely regrets. It isn't that hard to
participate, and even if you aren't a member of the group you can send
comments, knowing that the working group is required by "the Process"
to address them.
And whatever the rules, WAI seems often to work hard to ensure that
people can contribute valuable information. They are certainly not
perfect at it, but they strike me as being as good as the available
alternatives...
I share your concern about the narrow range of people who are in a
position to contribute regularly. Representing an organisation where
the primary language is spanish (the other 4 are Portuguese, Gallego,
Catalan and Euskera/Basque) and where many people are not in a position
to follow the work because of a language barrier, I understand the
problems that the world faces in giving its input to WAI. But I think
in this case you're "going off half-cocked", and that a single positive
suggestion based on the facts would be more useful to those of us
trying to deal with WAI from the outside who don't have a sinecured
North American position...
"Throw out the plan" isn't a suggestion. There isn't "a plan", the
status quo that you seem so happy about makes certain requirements of
participants, and the thing that got you so excited is a reminder of
those. It seems to suggest ways to reduce the commitment to the bare
minimum for effective participation. So if the system works now, you
seem to be making much ado about nothing.
cheers
Chaals
Charles McCathieNevile Fundaci?n Sidar
charles@sidar.org http://www.sidar.org
etc, etc.
Hi Charles,
I have no problem with this process and support it as probably the only
way to get things done, but there does seem to need to be some other way
or avenue for people to be involved. But also, what you say about
reading the mailing list and sending timely regrets as remaining in good
standing is only born out when you render that interpretation of the
charter.
From what I see, it is only those who do this and participate in
regular teleconferences that remain in good standing, and I don't really
have a problem with that. Even you, with all your past participation
and involvement have been taken off the PIGS list.
I am also in this situation with ATAG. I am passionate about the issues
there, because like Joe, I believe a better document / recommendation
will be more readily understood, accepted and adopted by the web
community as a whole. But I have just had to agree to it's charter to
be a part of that working group. I have two voices in my head (yes, I
am mad), one saying; "For Sanity's sake Geoff, you are committing
yourself beyond all your resources", the other saying; "You have to do
this to save mankind:-)"... well not quite.. as a sit at my computer
with cape and mask.
I hope you get the drift, it's not easy for some of us to balance these
commitments, it seems to me that a lot of the people in this area have
part of their paying job description / time allocation to W3C
activities, let alone the international phone calls and international
face to faces.
I'm not asking the charter to be changed or amended as such, just to
look at something to be done for those who sincerely and passionately
want to contribute and be involved in the discussion and forging of the
recommendations. I don't know how, just that I don't want to see the
charter restrict valuable contributions. If it can be determined that
the person is at least genuinely trying to contribute to the degree they
can most facilitate, maybe that is acceptable.
I do notice however that WAI is one of the few W3C groups that is so
open to individual participation (at least I think so).
... I'll be away for a bit over a week... Internet free zone.
Geoff
I want to attempt to clarify what exactly the consensus process is, why
it exists, and why it's a good thing. As you read this, note that I am
a W3C/WAI employee, but have no special status in the working group,
and am merely trying to get us back to the tasks at hand.
Nobody is held back from participating in this working group, full
stop. Not participants who don't happen to be in good standing, not
people who aren't on the list, nobody. The WCAG WG is probably the most
open working group in the consortium, and I say this having been an
invited expert myself long before joining W3C.
The discussion here on good standing seems to be taking the angle that
good standing is some way to keep people out of the process. In
actuality, it is a way of drawing interested parties in. After clearing
the invited-expert hurdle, anyone, irrespective of organizational
affiliation, can become a participant in good standing. The concept of
"good standing" in the consensus process helps prevent less-interested
parties from scuttling the work of the group.
A scenario: individuals A through W get together to solve a problem,
and are about to arrive at an agreement. Each individual in this group
under the consensus process has the right to stop the group and require
their issues to be addressed.
Individual X has just joined the group. Not knowing how a certain
decision was arrived at, or having contributed to the process to date,
X does not have the right to block consensus. However, if X provides
value to the group and becomes knowledgeable about the topic, the
consensus process then establishes X's right to cause issues to be
resolved.
Individual Y once joined the group, has rarely appeared or interacted
with the group, but appears for the call for consensus. Y's issues may
already have been resolved. Y may not be aware of the current state of
work. Or worse, Y may be trying intentionally to destroy the work
created to date. For these reasons, Y is considered by process not to
be able to block consensus.
"Good standing" in the consensus process is designed to keep people
actively involved in work that benefits the group, and giving each
participant the power to effect change where it most matters to her or
him. That power has to come with some kind of check, and for the W3C
that is in the form of regular attendance and participation. (There are
other means of breaking a move to block something, but they are
designed for situations where a compromise cannot be reached, and the
Director ensures that there is otherwise a genuine consensus among the
group.)
So, who are you if you bear the unfortunate moniker of "bad standing"?
You're the same as anyone else, at least in the WCAG WG. You can join
the conference calls, attend the face-to-face meetings, read and post
to the mailing list. The only thing you don't get to do, under the
consensus process on which W3C is based, is stop the train. We seek
consensus from not only the working group, but the approval of the
other working groups in the WAI domain, then proof that the document is
viable in the wild (Candidate Recommendation), then the consensus of
the W3C membership (Proposed Recommendation), and _then_ the approval
of the Director of W3C before the document becomes an official
Recommendation.
We do not blithely ignore the world around us in this process. Wendy
regularly receives reviews and new issues from outside the working
group, brings those issues to the working group, and proposes changes
to the document based on outside comments. And people in the working
group who are not "in good standing" have their issues addressed with
no discrimination as to their standing.
So, then. That's consensus in a nutshell. I'm hoping people are now
asking, what can I do to get my issues addressed? (Please tell me
you're asking this. Seriously. I'm not even supposed to be here today.
I'm on jury duty, and I'm writing this at night while my wife is
watching the 14-hour Two Towers edition.)
First, go to the meetings, if you can. W3C puts a high priority on
active participation, and regular teleconferences are to date the most
effective means for pushing things forward. That's why it's (almost) a
requirement for participation in good standing. It is very important to
the process, in that we can ask whether a given item has consensus and
have a near-immediate answer. For the techniques task force, it's
important to keep coordinated on what everyone is doing. It is also
helpful to attend because whether or not the group thought something
was a good idea or not often doesn't come through well in meeting
minutes.
Even if you cannot go to the meetings, read the drafts and comment on
them regularly. Send emails to the w3c-wai-gl and/or
public-comments-wcag20@w3.org lists, pointing out the draft you're
commenting on, the problem you have with it, and if at all possible,
potential solutions. If you have expertise in a given area, take an
action item to solve the issues you know how to deal with. If you take
an action item, produce a deliverable, or tell the chairs or staff
contact that you can't.
Read what consensus means to the W3C, and how issues are addressed[1].
Note that the WCAG 2.0 draft points to an issue-tracking list[2] which
contains hundreds of open issues with the document. Make sure you are
suggesting something new, and if not, add your comments to any existing
bugs against the document.
Raise issues clearly. Start a new thread. State the problem you see
with the document, citing examples if possible, and what you think
would resolve things. Raising a concern in one sentence halfway down a
message on an unrelated thread is not likely to result in the group's
immediate consideration.
Hope this helps.
m
[1] http://www.w3.org/2003/06/Process-20030618/policies.html#Consensus
[2]
Then fix your damned minutes. How hard can it be to write these things
down?
Is it not irresponsible for the Working Group to fail to document its
decisions and rationales?
That requirement is too onerous. It's certainly very nice to say that
critics must solve the problems they identify, but that is arguably what
W3C staff, PiGS, and politburo members with day jobs should be doing. Half
the time the issue involves a failure to read the W3C's own specs, or a
failure to simply provide examples from the real Web to back up what
they're saying.
If PiGS member A makes a statement, and some non-PiGS contributor X says
it's false and explains why, it is A's responsibility to fix it. It is
certainly nice if X or someone else solves it, but in a group as
notoriously incapable of spotting its own mistakes as this, merely
pointing them out must suffice.
Further, the converse of "participant in good standing" is not
"participant in bad standing." That requires a formal banning or shunning
and applies solely to former participants in good standing. The converse
of "participant in good standing" is a participant with no standing at
all. The values, essentially, are +1, 0, and -1, not +1 and -1.
Joe Clark | joeclark@joeclark.org
Author, _Building Accessible Websites_
The original point was about the need to encourage more people to
participate on this list.
Personally I am less likely to participate if there is a good chance
that I will get insulted on a publicly minuted list as a result.
(You once asked Joe, why should we keep lists polite)
All the best
Lisa Seeman
Visit us at the UB Access website
UB Access - Moving internet accessibility
Behalf Of Joe Clark
Then fix your damned minutes. How hard can it be to write these things
down?
Is it not irresponsible for the Working Group to fail to document its
decisions and rationales?
That requirement is too onerous. It's certainly very nice to say that
critics must solve the problems they identify, but that is arguably what
W3C staff, PiGS, and politburo members with day jobs should be doing.
Half the time the issue involves a failure to read the W3C's own specs,
or a failure to simply provide examples from the real Web to back up
what they're saying.
If PiGS member A makes a statement, and some non-PiGS contributor X says
it's false and explains why, it is A's responsibility to fix it. It is
certainly nice if X or someone else solves it, but in a group as
notoriously incapable of spotting its own mistakes as this, merely
pointing them out must suffice.
Further, the converse of "participant in good standing" is not
"participant in bad standing." That requires a formal banning or
shunning and applies solely to former participants in good standing. The
converse of "participant in good standing" is a participant with no
standing at all. The values, essentially, are +1, 0, and -1, not +1 and
-1.
Joe Clark | joeclark@joeclark.org
Author, _Building Accessible Websites_
Lisa brings up a good point and one that I'm concerned with. Personally
I'm tired of the negatives we get from some people. I would rather have
someone criticize with positive information than have to read a
condescending email.
I've not been able to meet on the teleconference because of the
obligations I have with my State government. That has subsided for the
next month, but it looks like the next two weeks are non-call days due
to the holidays.
Thanks and Happy Holidays,
Lee
Behalf Of lisa seeman
The original point was about the need to encourage more people to
participate on this list.
Personally I am less likely to participate if there is a good chance
that I will get insulted on a publicly minuted list as a result.
(You once asked Joe, why should we keep lists polite)
All the best
Lisa Seeman
Visit us at the UB Access website
UB Access - Moving internet accessibility
-----Original Message-----
Behalf Of Joe Clark
Then fix your damned minutes. How hard can it be to write these things
down?
Is it not irresponsible for the Working Group to fail to document its
decisions and rationales?
That requirement is too onerous. It's certainly very nice to say that
critics must solve the problems they identify, but that is arguably what
W3C staff, PiGS, and politburo members with day jobs should be doing.
Half the time the issue involves a failure to read the W3C's own specs,
or a failure to simply provide examples from the real Web to back up
what they're saying.
If PiGS member A makes a statement, and some non-PiGS contributor X says
it's false and explains why, it is A's responsibility to fix it. It is
certainly nice if X or someone else solves it, but in a group as
notoriously incapable of spotting its own mistakes as this, merely
pointing them out must suffice.
Further, the converse of "participant in good standing" is not
"participant in bad standing." That requires a formal banning or
shunning and applies solely to former participants in good standing. The
converse of "participant in good standing" is a participant with no
standing at all. The values, essentially, are +1, 0, and -1, not +1 and
-1.
Joe Clark | joeclark@joeclark.org
Author, _Building Accessible Websites_
Lots of acronyms in the subject line
Some reporting back from the Israel accessibility group face to face
meeting
1,
There is a lot of burden in the requiring of the Lang tag.
Most sites will have vocational English words in the middle of Hebrew
Paragraphs.
However as there is no overlap in the encoding character set, it works
fine without the Lang tag.
It was suggested that we change the wording of 3.1 success criteria 1
From
passages or fragments of text occurring within the content that are
written in a language other than the primary natural language of the
content as a whole, are identified, including specification of the
language of the passage or fragment. [X]
To
passages or fragments of text occurring within the content that are
written in a language other than the primary natural language of the
content as a whole, are identifiable, either through the character
encoding used or through direct including specification of the language
of the passage or fragment. [X]
2, Some heated debates on Diatric marks - the old user need Verses
Author burden - we will try and get some kind of consensus on this one.
All the best
Lisa Seeman
Visit us at the UB Access website
UB Access - Moving internet accessibility
Hi Lisa,
Character encoding information helps you know the script, which may be
useful for font selection or some other rendering considerations, but
doesn't help you with selecting the right voice for pronunciation of the
text. For example, ASCII text could just as easily be Indonesian or
Malaysian as English. Text using 'Latin1' characters could represent a
very wide range of languages. So 'either through the character encoding
used' would be inappropriate, unfortunately.
To help me better understand the issue, could you briefly characterise
for me the type of content that causes the problem? Is it English? How
much of it is there (as a very rough average)? Is much of it acronyms?
proper names? technical words? etc.
Exploring solutions: can one assume that Israeli text to speech systems
can deal pretty well with the embedded non-Hebrew stuff? Does that
apply to the tts systems dealing with other languages? If Hebrew
systems deal with English ok, maybe you'd only have to label stuff that
was, say, Indonesian or Malay??
RI
In other words, the ISOC group in Israel are possibly doing one of two
things:
1. Asserting that there are a lot of english words which are recognised as
hebrew, although requiring a different pronunciation. Fortunately, they are
easy to spot because they use a different alphabet, and the tools recognise
them.
This would seem to be a fine claim to make - although I would like to
see some connection to what the vocabulary they are using is...
2. Assuming that words included in hebrew text that are written in latin
script are automatically english. I trust this isn't their assertion.
cheers
Chaals
From: w3c-wai-gl-request@w3.org
[mailto:w3c-wai-gl-request@w3.org] On Behalf Of lisa seeman
Sent: 22 December 2003 05:55
snip
Post: 21 Mitchell street, FOOTSCRAY Vic 3011, Australia or
W3C, 2004 Route des Lucioles, 06902 Sophia Antipolis Cedex, France
English words in Hebrew text aren't considered as Hebrew, It is just an
example of typical usage.
I do not see it as a problem for internationalization. He Lang tag is
correct from the initialization stand point, in the main because no
I=one is pushing for legislation to require correct encoding of HTML
because of internalization issues.
Accessibility is a different story, I think part of the thinking for
having the requirement for the Lang tag at minimal accessibility was
because for some pages it is very important and it is not too
burdensome. However , in Israel it is burdensome (unless people are
using transcoding - like SWAP :) ) and on the other hand, the importance
to accessibility is questionable. Assistive technologies and user agents
used in Israel default to the English were the encoding is in the Latin
character set - unless directed otherwise. That may not be ideal and is
not because English is that prevalent generally, (there are more Russian
and Arabic speakers) but the because of the strong English speaking
influence on net culture and the user agent need to work with the
reality of what is out there.
So we have a strange situation were for Israel we have a P1 success
criteria that will affect most pages in Hebrew, is considered
burdensome, and is not partially helpful to accessibility.
That would perhaps justify modifying the wording of the criteria to
exclude this type of occurrence were user agents are extremely likely to
decode any language change correctly themselves.
All the best
Lisa Seeman
Visit us at the UB Access website
UB Access - Moving internet accessibility
Behalf Of Charles McCathieNevile
In other words, the ISOC group in Israel are possibly doing one of two
things:
1. Asserting that there are a lot of english words which are recognised
as hebrew, although requiring a different pronunciation. Fortunately,
they are easy to spot because they use a different alphabet, and the
tools recognise them.
This would seem to be a fine claim to make - although I would like to
see some connection to what the vocabulary they are using is...
2. Assuming that words included in hebrew text that are written in latin
script are automatically english. I trust this isn't their assertion.
cheers
Chaals
snip
134 136
78 22
Post: 21 Mitchell street, FOOTSCRAY Vic 3011, Australia or
W3C, 2004 Route des Lucioles, 06902 Sophia Antipolis Cedex, France
