Hello everyone.
I'm carrying out some research on the Royal London Society for the Blind
web site, with the view of suggesting improvements to its current format
and accessibility.
I would appreciate if participants would take a few moments to browse the
site and provide feedback on its current format and accessibility.
Suggestions, comments and constructive critisism will be greatly
appreciated.
You can also forward the comments directly to me using the return path to
this message.
The address is:
Thank you for your time.
Isaac Kute
Adaptive Technology Centre
Dorton College of Further Education
RLSB
Several comments in no special order:
Unless you have a commitment to do an awful lot of work you will find
that maintaining three sets of pages is too difficult. I notice that at
the moment the three are very different - I struggled to find much
consistency between versions. I would suggest producing one version, and
using a search and replace to change the FONT or apply a different Style
sheet (or both) in order to provide a version for ordinary type as well
as one with large font, high contrast. (Alternatively, some help for
users on how to specify their own fonts would obviate even that
requirement.) Consistency is particularly important for users who are
making use of a range of technologies (for example screenreader at work,
high contrast/large print at home, magnified version (eg Opera) at the
library).
The Screenreader version has no meaningful markup - this makes it a very
poor cousin to the other versions. A screenreader would be better off
using a properly marked up, accessible version of the framed version,
This effectively requires a sensible use of NOFRAMES in the Frameset
page, and links on each page (which are there anyway)
In a high-contrast large print version it would have made more sense to
enlarge the images.
These are my first impressions, and it seems to me that all of these are
reasonably important problems which can be relatively simply solved at
this stage.
regards
Charles McCathieNevile
As already noted by Charles, I cant see a reason for having three versions.
If you write one site leaving typography to the browser/user default, those who need strong contrast and large fonts probably configure their browser accordingly.
Users of screen readers, if they want heading to be the same font size as text can get a browser that may be configured this way (e.g., Lynx or Opera).
The frames version comes totally blank at my current configuration. If I weere to get to it from an external link I woudn't be able to find the working versions.
Regards,
Nir Dagan
Assistant Professor of Economics
Universidad Pompeu Fabra
Barcelona (Spain)
website: http://www.nirdagan.com
"There is nothing quite so practical as a good theory."
-- A. Einstein
