Just a reminder of the teleconference on Monday at 4:00 pm ET
(617) 761-6200 ext. 2894#
Agenda:
1. Implementation Techniques for Guidelines 3 and 4:
During this meeting we will be making decisions on proposed changes that
will affect ATAG 2.0 so please be familiar with the proposed changes at:
2. F2F Planning (Copenhagen, 12-13 July 2004). There are only 3
teleconferences left before this meeting.
Please send regrets or additional agenda items to the list.
Cheers,
Jan
Jan Richards, M.Sc.
User Interface Design Specialist
Adaptive Technology Resource Centre (ATRC), University of Toronto
Web: http://jan.atrc.utoronto.ca
For my first action item from the May 24 AUWG telecon, Karen Mardahl has
kindly offered to assist
me with this item, so I have sent some text to Karen for comment. If she
agrees, I am happy to release
to the group for discussion.
Following is text I promised as the second of my action items from the May
24 AUWG telecon.
To be added right before "Technique 3.1.1 title":
"NOTE: It is a goal (not a requirement?) that all available (to the user)
accessibility
features of an authoring tool be as configurable (by the user) as
possible. For example,
an authoring tool may have a few defined options, and permission to
configure those options,
or perhaps an authoring tool may use a free-form style sheet. The
developer of an authoring
tool should make every effort to accommodate the wishes of a user in
development. For an authoring
tool, a description of all accessibility features provided and degree of
user configurability of each feature
should be documented."
Comments welcomed and appreciated. Should any of this go into the
Guidelines (if not there already?)
Best wishes, Tim Boland NIST
Hi,
As Tim points out at the end of his message, maybe we do need a new
checkpoint(!) that would be devoted to configurability. At the moment
"configurability" exists in ATAG2.0 as a kind of note in checkpoint 3.1
(technique 3.1.1) and as a small bit of checkpoint 4.4.
A new checkpoint under GL4 (where the rest of our meta-requirements
live) could pull together some of these ideas in one place.
Reaction?
Cheers,
Jan
Jan Richards, M.Sc.
User Interface Design Specialist
Adaptive Technology Resource Centre (ATRC), University of Toronto
Web: http://jan.atrc.utoronto.ca
Hi everyone,
After giving some more thought to the configuration issue, I have put
together an idea for a new ATAG checkpoint in Guideline 4. Like other
checkpoints in GL4 it is a "meta-requirement" on the functions we
already require in GL3.
It is very rough at the moment, but I wanted to throw it out for
feedback. Make sure to look at the "Trickle down effects" noted at the
bottom to see what the effect on the rest of the docs might be.
Comments? Questions?
ATAG Checkpoint 4.X: Ensure that accessibility prompting, checking,
repair and documentation functions are configurable. [Priority 3]
Rationale: A configurable tool is more likely to be adaptable to the
work habits of more authors.
Success Criteria #1: The configurability of functions related to
accessibility prompting, checking, repair, and documentation must be
equivalent to that of comparable functions in terms of number of options
under author control and the degree to which each option can be controlled.
Trickle down effects in the rest of the ATAG documents:
- can remove "[3] configurability" from success criteria 1 of ATAG
checkpoint 4.4.
- can remove paragraph 4 from Introduction to Guideline 3 (in Guidelines
and Techniques)
- link to this checkpoint from Clarification area in Techniques for
Checkpoint 3.1.
- can remove "This intervention may proceed according to a
user-configurable schedule. " from success criteria 1 of Checkpoint 3.1.
- can use section on configurability in techniques for checkpoint 3.1
could be used as starting point for techniques for this checkpoint (4.X)
- good place to gather minor configuration techniques from all over the
techniques document.
Cheers,
Jan
Jan Richards, M.Sc.
User Interface Design Specialist
Adaptive Technology Resource Centre (ATRC), University of Toronto
Web: http://jan.atrc.utoronto.ca
