My IPS is about to discontinue shell account access, and with it, support for
Lynx, which is my browser of choice for most things. I recall hearing about a
Dos-based version of Lynx that can be run on a Windows-based PC. Three
questions:
1. How does Dos Lynx compare with Unix Lynx?
2. Can the program be installed by a technophobe?
3. Where do you get it?
Alan
Alan Cantor
Cantor + Associates
Workplace Accommodation Consultants
acantor@interlog.com
www.interlog.com/~acantor
Alan,
Don't know, I've never used the Unix version
There is a DOS version, but there is also a 32-bit Windows version; that's probably the one you want to get (see below)
Can you use WinZip? Then you can. All you need to do is unzip the archive in a directory (letting it cretae subdirectories but that's the default), then create a shortcut (the latter for convenience only - you can start it from Explorer)
Windows: lynx_w32.zip
DOS: lynx_386.zip
From the readme.txt:
The Win32 version will work on Win95 or WinNT using the standard winsock.
Win3.11 will NOT work -- not even with win32s and wolverine installed.
This is a console application meaning that it appears to run in a DOS box
within Windows, but it accesses the Windows network layer and other kernel
functions directly.
Cheers,
Marjolein Katsma
HomeSite Help - http://hshelp.com/
Bookstore for Webmasters - http://hshelp.com/bookstore/bookstore.html
There are two versions to consider. One is truly DOS-based - you can run it on, say, an old 386/486 running DOS. The other is a Win32 version. You can run it on Windows 95/98/NT, but it's still a text-mode program. The Win32 version, at least, compares quite well with the Unix version. This is NOT the old DOSLynx, which had a separate code base and lacked many of the Unix features.
Both can be obtained at:
For further information, see http://lynx.browser.org/
Adam Guasch-Melendez
EEOC
"Alan Cantor" acantor@interlog.com 03/03 1:38 PM
My IPS is about to discontinue shell account access, and with it, support for
Lynx, which is my browser of choice for most things. I recall hearing about a
Dos-based version of Lynx that can be run on a Windows-based PC. Three
questions:
1. How does Dos Lynx compare with Unix Lynx?
2. Can the program be installed by a technophobe?
3. Where do you get it?
Alan
Alan Cantor
Cantor + Associates
Workplace Accommodation Consultants
acantor@interlog.com
www.interlog.com/~acantor
aloha, alan!
the starting point for DOS and Win32 versions of Lynx is Wayne Buttles'
FDisk site, located at:
in particular, his DOS internet page, located at:
versions of lynx that run in DOS on a 386 machine (or higher) and in
Win32's DOS emulation mode can be found at:
installation is easy, since the DOS and Win32 versions of Lynx come
pre-compiled, so it is simply a matter of recursively unarchiving the zip
file...
you can also easily add support for RealPlayer, and other multi-media
players, by editing the .mailcap file that comes with the Lynx32
distribution -- just make sure that you use a Win32-aware unarchiving
program, such as WinZip, which is capable of handling non-standard
filenames... this is especially important if you do want to add support
for helper applications, since a Win32-aware archiving utility can create
the .mailcap file referred to above on your hard drive, even though the
filename is technically invalid in the Windows environment, since it starts
with a period...
in addition, if you add the directory which contains the lynx executable,
lynx.exe, to your AUTOEXEC.BAT file's PATH statement, you will be able to
load lynx from any DOS prompt...
other tips and tricks for maximizing the functionality of Lynx32 are
contained in a plain text file included with the distribution... note that
while Lynx32 is a 32-bit program, it runs in text mode, which means that
one could always use a DOS based screen reader (loaded during AUTOEXEC.BAT,
so that speech automatically starts when a DOS-box is spawned) or a windows
screen reader that features a DOS-emulation mode to have Lynx32 voiced...
Wayne's last release of Lynx32, compiled on 9 January 2000, is based upon
the 2.8.3 (dev17) build of Lynx, and can be obtained from:
Wayne recently announced that he will be less actively releasing Lynx32 in
the future, so there are also a few other ports of Lynx to the Win32
platform which you may want to investigate...
1. a cygwin compiled version, available from:
ftp://crab.it.osha.sut.ac.jp/pub/Win32/develope/senshu/Lynx
2. a Borland C++ compiled version, available from:
but Wayne's port is still the best package for technophobes...
a blind slash low-vision tailored version of Wayne's previous
(non-developmental) version of Lynx32 can be downloaded from:
the Blynx32 distribution contains a configuration file (lynx.cfg) which has
been tailored for blind slash low vision users (high contrast screen
colors, accessibility features turned on, etc.) and which is extensively
commented, so that the average user can further personalize it by editing
it in a plain text editor... Blynx32 also contains a sample .mailcap file
and other resources... the lynx.cfg and .mailcap file contained in the
Blynx32 distribution are also compatible with Wayne's latest build...
good luck, and let me know if you need any further assistance,
gregory.
He that lives on Hope, dies farting
-- Benjamin Franklin, Poor Richard's Almanack, 1763
Gregory J. Rosmaita unagi69@concentric.net
WebMaster and Minister of Propaganda, VICUG NYC
Dear Alan,
There is a version of Lynx for Win32 (95/98/NT) and one for 386+.
I use the Win32 version regularly. It is quite comparable to the Unix
version I sometimes telnet to. You can find a download link from URL:
The Win32 version (runs in an MSDOS window) requires you to establish a
connection to your ISP through the Windows OS (via Dia-Up Networking or
whatever).
There are links there to the pure DOS version, which I have not tried. It
looks like the DosLynx has been updated as of March 1st! The author warns
that this is quote a "development" version, not a "release" version unquote.
Last I heard, DosLynx was really annoying because several navigation keys
were hard mapped to letter keys. This means that one could NOT type in many
raw URLs. That was a few years back, so I assume that this defect has been
resolved.
Installation of the Win32 version of Lynx was pretty straight forward: (1)
download the .zip archive. (2) Expand (unzip) the archive in the directory
of your choice. (3) Make shortcuts to the lynx.exe on your desktop or in
your Start menu. Most Windows installation packages have you download an
.exe and they then perform the latter steps for you, but not this one!
That handles your question 1-3, I hope someone else can fill in the details
on the pure DOS version.
Good luck!
Bruce Bailey
aloha, bruce!
you wrote,
quote
That handles your question 1-3, I hope someone else can fill in the details
on the pure DOS version.
unquote
check out Rene Ludwig's Lynx_Kit, available from:
The lynx_kit contains a true DOS port of Lynx 2.8.1 in a self-extracting
file, along with a PPP packet driver, so that you can access the internet
via a PPP account from within DOS. It requires a 386 or faster processor.
Rene also has an archive of other handy DOS Internet utilities at:
if you are looking for a DOS port that will work on a 286, then you need to
try Bobcat, information about which can be found at either:
or http://www.hicom.net/~oedipus/blind.html#bob
Bobcat can be downloaded from:
as a last resort, one could always telnet to a public version of lynx, a
list of which can be found at:
but there are obvious limitations on what one can and cannot do using lynx
via telnet....
gregory.
He that lives on Hope, dies farting
-- Benjamin Franklin, Poor Richard's Almanack, 1763
Gregory J. Rosmaita unagi69@concentric.net
WebMaster and Minister of Propaganda, VICUG NYC
Thank you to everybody who replied to my query about Lynx, both publicly and
privately. For anybody else interested in this text-based browser, know that
it is trivially simple to set up on a Windows machine that already has been
set up for Internet access. I had it up and running in less than two minutes.
Alan
