In E3A3FFB80F5CD1119CED00805FBECA2F013BBD91@red-msg-55.dns.microsoft.com
"Charles (Chuck) Oppermann" chuckop@MICROSOFT.com says:
Once again, I must caution. Do not think of ALT as how it's represented
in
LYNX or any other browser. As we move to the W3C's Document Object
Model,
we need to be thinking of HTML elements as objects. As such, we need to
think of how we use these attributes to property identify the object.
I don't primarily think of ALT _as_ it's represented in any particular
browser, but _for_ its stated purpose. And its purpose is to serve as
alternative text, for presentation when the image is - for whatever
reason - not being presented.
"Alternative text". Let's concentrate on that.
Whatever you may say about what's going in behind the scenes, there's a
need for alternative text, and this is it. If you want to "property
identify the object" for some other good reason, I'd respectfully suggest
you look for another attribute. This one's assigned, in my opinion. Just
occasionally, the appropriate alternative text might identify the object,
describe the object, explain the object, name the object, whatever. Its
purpose is none of these things: its _purpose_ is to supply alternative
text, for use when the object is not being presented.
It's a compromise, for sure, but this is surely what we should be
aiming at, no? TITLE and LONGDESC (for IMG) are other handles we may
turn, in their respective ways.
It would be a complete mistake to let our choice be dominated by what one
or other browser happens to be doing today. Let's concentrate on the
functional requirement, in terms of user needs, and then we can evaluate
how well the browsers are fulfilling that requirement. Not vice versa.
In article Pine.OSF.3.96.980210225622.3087A-100000@a5.ph.gla.ac.uk ,
"Alan J. Flavell" flavell@a5.ph.gla.ac.uk writes
[An excellent summary of the purpose of ALT snipped for brevity]
Absolutely. Particularly as there is so much variety, and so little
agreement, amongst the browser developers (as well as between versions
of the same browser).
We seem to be chasing ourselves around in never-ending circles. The
browser developers have a view on what ALT is, or means to them, and
produce a browser which renders it in a certain way. Web authors see the
effects, write code accordingly, and modify their behaviour in an ever-
more futile attempt to cater for the changing browser behaviour.
As far as I can see this has arisen because of ambiguity in the original
specification - but this ambiguity still remains unresolved.
Why is it so difficult to reach a concensus on such a basic concept as
ALTernative text for images?
Colin Reynolds
"I know you believe you understand what you thought I said, but
I'm not sure you realize that what you heard was not what I meant!"
to follow up on what Colin F Reynolds said:
In the post you will find at
w3c-wai-wg@w3.org from April to June 1997: ALT revisited
.. I argue that it is because the answer to what is plausible or
appropriate alternative text is context-sensitive.
Perhaps we can tighten up the statements in the document. But
there is no universal "best" because of the variant circumstances
and limited options available to us.
Al Gilman
