Howdy,
Supposing (yet not to assume) you intend to use these in an accessible html
document, ALT tags, D-Links and text-link alternatives will spare confusion as
to what the symbols mean in the context of your document.
Corel Gallery has thousands of symbols/icons including foreign and universal
symbols in their clip-art collection.
The following URI's are Icon/Symbol libraries:
Hope this helps!
Kindest regards,
-LK
One curious thing here is that these web sites are accessible to people with
learning or cognitive disabilities but probably not accessible under the
w3org guidelines. A bit of a dichotomy I think
Thinking about this a bit I can see an advantage to haing a standard set of
Universal Symbols. There are people who use the internet that cannot read.
(Consider people with TBI's)
Signed English (not ALS) is the closest method to universal symbolism I can
think of.
Signed English is taught to Down's Syndrome children from day one to help them
communicate what they cannot speak. They become rather adept at it - it is
amazing.
But note - I have often seen the kids make up their own Signs for objects or
actions they do not know the proper Sign for. Usually very creative, but like
playing charades.
Signed English and ASL also varies from region to region. I am sure not many
people outside Texas know the Sign for "Chicken Fried Steak". And I would not
know many signs used in other English speaking countries (ie; Australia).
Yet, very basic Sign Language is universal.
Replicating Signs as graphic images on the web is another thing because most
signs require motion.
Symbol Cards representing basic activities such as eating and toileting are
also used and they prove to be very effective - placing them in a sequence to
form a sentence, etc. But these too have thier flaws. ie; we have never owned
an electric can opener - so, when our child was presented with a picture of
one he said it was a radio.
KPR,
LK
to follow up on what Lovey@aol.com said:
Check out the VRML "signing avatar" at
Linkname: Overview
URL: http://www.seamless-solutions.com/main.htm
Linkname: Sign Language
URL: http://www.seamless-solutions.com/sign_language/Default.htm
Al
I have to disagree on this:
There is no such thing as universal sign language. Each community's sign
language is a naturally formed language with it's own phonology,
morphology, and syntax. If a Deaf American and a Deaf German meet on the
street, they *won't* understand each other. What they *will* be better at
is a mutual gesturing. Since they both use language through a visual
medium, they're more receptive to communicating physically.
I realize this is off-topic, but I gotta use my MA in ASL Linguistics
*somewhere*!
---Jess Chaiken
Jessica Chaiken, Media Specialist
National Rehabilitation Information Center
800/346-2742
jchaiken@mindspring.com
Information for Independence is just a click away!
Just a quick note to agree with Jessica Chaiken, working as a British Sign Language (BSL) interpreter, variation of Sign Language occurs within the UK, as well as internationally.
With regard to;
This 'signed english' does not represent BSL but rather a signed language in its own right, probably a signed system called Makaton.
Lastly, within the UK there is also Signed Supported English (SSE) which varies from the phonology, morphology, and syntax in BSL.
This may seem off topic but the understanding of the difference phonology etc, in Signed Languages is important for Deaf people's access to information.
Alex McDonald
Project Officer - "On-Line Information on Employment and Training Opportunities for Disabled People"
UK
