When adding a stylesheet to a page you can specify a media type as
Aural.
How well is this supported amongst screen readers?
Cheers,
Julian Voelcker
Cirencester, United Kingdom
I think the only user agent that supports this well is EmacSpeak, which
runs in Unix and Linux and has only a few hundred users. The concepts have
migrated into many other products and protocols, but implementation seems
minimal. The concept is not dead.
Braille is the solution to the digital divide.
Lloyd Rasmussen, Senior Staff Engineer
National Library Service f/t Blind and Physically Handicapped
Library of Congress (202) 707-0535 http://www.loc.gov/nls/
HOME: http://lras.home.sprynet.com
The opinions expressed here are my own and do not necessarily represent
those of NLS.
based on the number of folks I know who use EmacSpeak I would suspect
there are a lot more than a few hundred users, most however don't say much
just hack thier own system it seems
bob
"They that can give up essential liberty to obtain a little temporary
safety deserve Neither liberty nor safety", Benjamin Franklin
ASCII Ribbon Campaign accessBob
NO HTML/PDF/RTF in e-mail accessys@smartnospam.net
NO MSWord docs in e-mail Access Systems, engineers
NO attachments in e-mail, *LINUX powered* access is a civil right
THIS message and any attachments are CONFIDENTIAL and may be
privileged. They are intended ONLY for the individual or entity named
That's a shame, I was just trying to see if there was a way of styling
pages so that they can be specifically optimised for screen readers.
Cheers,
Julian Voelcker
Cirencester, United Kingdom
no problem. Most screen readers available today work well with accessible
css or throw it away if they don't use it and the thrick there is to code
your site so that it works well regardless of whether css is taken into
account. We really need to stop aiming our efforts at particular at
solutions.
That's a shame, I was just trying to see if there was a way of styling
pages so that they can be specifically optimised for screen readers.
Cheers,
Julian Voelcker
Cirencester, United Kingdom
