Peepo has advocated for some years the use of the keyboard as means to select links.
In the latest mozilla browser, when you type a letter, except in a text entry box, it cycles through links that have that letter in their text.
it seems slightly buggy, but what do you think?
(course it screws my coding right and proper)
thanks
jonathan
--- jonathan chetwynd j.chetwynd@btinternet.com
i found out about this only a few days ago and have
been using the so-called 'typeaheadfind' since then
quite a lot. i haven't found it buggy at all and
absolutely love it.
it's more a Find function then a 'cycling through
links' function. with the focus on the page you just
type a word (or beginning of it) and mozilla jumps to
that word. F3 finds the next instance. it first only
looks at links but if you type a '/' (slash) before
the word it searches the whole text. it really just
saves you bringing up that cumbersome Find dialogue
box.
i don't think it really works for cycling through
links. the tab key works better for that.
iris
omnia mea mecum porto
Do you Yahoo!?
New DSL Internet Access from SBC &amp; Yahoo!
--- jonathan chetwynd j.chetwynd@btinternet.com
how does it screw your coding?
iris
omnia mea mecum porto
Do you Yahoo!?
New DSL Internet Access from SBC &amp; Yahoo!
Indeed.... I have loved Opera's "inline find" for a long time. Sounds
like Moz has copped another Opera feature ;-)
I still haven't found anything that matches Opera's CONTROL+J (which
will list all links on the page). It also gives you a quick method to
see if your links will make sense when read out of context.
TjL
30 Days to becoming an Opera Lover
Day 25: Opera does Plug-ins (better than the other guys) too
well those are some of the positives, how about disabling for those who are
hyperactive, and just cannot stop fiddling with the keyboard?
its buggy in the sense that for instance 'k' words aren't just those that
start with the letter k but also those that include the letter k. I'd expect
it to have a few others besides.
jonathan
