I have recently taken over as web master of one the largest web archives
with free sheet notes, the Werner Icking Music Archive
the GMD sheet music archive http://www.gmd.de/Misc/Music/ named after
the late web master of the latter web site.
As an unexperienced web editor I have taken amaya (4.3.2 for linux) into
use as an editing tool in combination with emacs editing of the html
code. This has proven very efficient except for one of the web pages of
my site, the master page
horizontically neighbouring tables at the top of the page. While
appearing as intended when handled by the Netscape and IE browsers the
rightmost table looks weird when displayed by amaya.
I can live with that since I know that my web guests see the framed text
of the 2nd table as intended. But I wonder whether the weird appearance
of it within amaya is due to some incompatibility between amaya and
method used for setting up the two tables in question.
Regards
Christian Mondrup, Computer Programmer
Scandiatransplant, Skejby Hospital, University Hospital of Aarhus
Brendstrupgaardsvej, DK 8200 Aarhus N, Denmark
I apologize for having posted my user questions to the wrong list. I
didn't notice the difference between www-amaya-dev@w3.org and
www-amaya@w3.org.
Sorry!
Christian Mondrup, Computer Programmer
Scandiatransplant, Skejby Hospital, University Hospital of Aarhus
Brendstrupgaardsvej, DK 8200 Aarhus N, Denmark
the most important fixes to the document are
lines 54 and 55 have a height="100%" attribute.
Neither table or tr tags have this as a permitted attribute!
delete them and your table will display ok in amaya.
However there are several other errors such as missing
quotes arround an attribute value in line 26 and missing
semicolons on character entities in lines 57 and 75....
validator.w3.org will show others as well
but clearing height attribute is sufficient to get good display of table.
John Russell, VE3LL@RAC.CA
Please send complaints to my legal reps
Dewey, Cheatum &amp; Howe ATTN: Sue Alotte
On my Linux box, the only difference between the Netscape display and the
Amaya display is the border color of the right table (black in Amaya).
Is it what you call a "weird look"?
