I was chatting with a colleague to day and the subject of anon resources
and provenance came up.
Assume I recieve the following rdf from some source SOURCE, possibly with a
digital signature:
If were to represent this in my machine as:
gensym:1234 foo:bar "foobar" .
http://goo foo:bar "foobar" .
this is not the information that SOURCE signed - SOURCE made no assertion
about gensym:1234 . We'd have to be able to distinguish between the
gensym'd URI and the 'real' one.
Brian
Some observations:
(1) A signature is applied to some particular document or data, not to the
information it contains or represents.
(2) Depending on the context in which the signature is applied, it conveys
some kind of assurance about the content of the document. It may assert
that the information represented by the document is true. It may convey
some different assurance about the document. (Joseph Reagle has some
thoughts about this: see http://www.w3.org/TR/xmldsig-p3p-profile/ .)
(3) Ultimately, the assurance conveyed by a signature will apply, I think,
to the model theoretic interpretation of the information (in which, I
assert, genid's and other identifying forms will not generally be present).
#g
Graham Klyne Baltimore Technologies
Strategic Research Content Security Group
Not sure I follow that one, but it is suggesting to me that anon resources
must be distinguishable from non-anonymous ones in the model. Otherwise
the model does not represent what the sender signed.
Brian
In this case, I come to the opposite conclusion.
I think that in a model, or interpretation, there are just things that are
denoted. The form of the denotation used in the formal language being
interpreted (identifiers, variables, position on a piece of paper, etc.)
does not generally exist in the domain of interpretation. Thus any
distinction in the form of denotation is not material in the domain being
described.
#g
Graham Klyne Baltimore Technologies
Strategic Research Content Security Group
Ah - I think thats the first time I've got stung by the ambiguity of the
term 'model'.
I meant to suggest that the datastructure which represents RDF/XML, i.e.
the data model, must represent the anonimity, otherwise it is not
representing what was in the RDF/XML that was read.
Brian
As I said a while ago, it matters who generates the gensym. If SOURCE
uses an anonymous node (existential quantifier) then indeed you are
not entitled to replace it with a gensym and say that it represents
what SOURCE said. That is what the logic says also: the step from the
existential to the skolem form is *not* a valid inference, so you
would not be correct in saying that conclusion followed from what
SOURCE said. However, SOURCE could have replaced his existential with
a skolem constant ( a newly generated URI, guaranteed different from
any other URI anywhere else) and, my claim is, that you would have
been told virtually the same content by SOURCE under those
circumstances as you would have been by SOURCE telling you his
existential. (Not quite *exactly* the same, since you would know, in
addition to the fact that the thing exists, that SOURCE was using
this URI to refer to it. But that information wouldnt help you make
any inferences about the thing that you couldnt have made from the
existential.) But indeed, if someone signs a document then it isnt,
in general, correct to transfer that signature to another document
that differs even in the slightest respect, so the issue of whether
the inferences are valid or not may be irrelevant here.
Pat
(650)859 6569 w
(650)494 3973 h (until September)
phayes@ai.uwf.edu
Yes. If we have genuinely anonymous nodes then they must be
recognisable as such. I gather however that this is still an open
issue, ie do we have genuinely anonymous nodes in an RDF
graph/document, or does 'anonymous' simply mean 'unspecified', so
that anonymous nodes have an URI (unique to the document which
originated it) but we just don't say what it is ?
To me, the interesting thing is that the model theory works just as
well either way. Details coming, hopefully tomorrow.
Pat
(650)859 6569 w
(650)494 3973 h (until September)
phayes@ai.uwf.edu
I'm struggling slowly to understand. My appologies if I miss the
significance of some remarks first time around.
The syntax clearly allows anonymous resources. I think you have just
said that a parser, which on receiving RDF/XML containing anon
resources, assigned URI's to the anon resources when spitting out the
triples would not be representing exactly the information it had
as input. Are we agreeing on this?
To represent exactly the information recieved, anon resources must
be a part of the model/abstract syntax. Yes? No?
Could have, but didn't. I suggest the requirement here is that
the abstract syntax/model be able to represent *exactly* the information
conveyed in the syntax.
My point here is that the abstract model should be able to represent
*exactly* the information that SOURCE intended to sign. Any subsequent
inferences are the responsibility of the recipient.
Brian
That's the point I'm arguing: I don't think it's the anonymity that must
be represented, but the lack of possibility of other knowledge associated
with the name.
(Where I'm interpreting "representing" to mean something like "conveying
the same information about the domain of discourse")
#g
Graham Klyne Baltimore Technologies
Strategic Research Content Security Group
Brian,
You said:
I think that to "represent exactly the information received" the entire
RDF/XML document received must be represented verbatim. I don't think
we're going there.
In defining RDF, and in particular its semantics, we are in the process of
identifying the significant information in a received RDF/XML document. We
are making choices about what constitutes "information received" (guided by
the existing XML and RDF M&amp;S specs).
Signatures present an interesting case, because the most trivial change
(e.g. adding or removing a space in an XML comment) changes/invalidates the
signature. So if we mean to convey the exact meaning of a signature (i.e.
that a certain key signed a certain sequence of bits) we must keep a copy
of the bits (or at least a copy of the digest of the bits that was signed).
When one takes a signed XML document and interprets it as RDF, I think one
needs to make some choices about what it means, which will be some function of:
(a) the information conveyed by the bare RDF, and
(b) the information conveyed by the signature
So suppose I receive a statement:
(1) _:exists-X hasProperty Y .
which is signed Alice. Also suppose that I apply Skolemization represent
this information:
(2) skolem:12345 hasProperty Y .
where I am certain that nobody will independently use skolem:12345 to
represent any resource. Now I am not entitled to say that the statement
(2) was signed by A, but I might legitimately say that I received some
document signed by A whose content was interpreted to mean (2).
When I sign a cheque, it is a piece of paper that I sign. When the cheque
is presented for payment, the bank interpret the signature to mean that I
have authorized the payment of some amount to some person. If someone
writes a telephone number in the margin of the check, the exact content of
the document is changed, but the authorization conveyed by the signature is
not. Thus, any signature as well as the signed document need to be
interpreted.
A better cheque-based example might be that some banking transactions no
longer require that the original signed document be presented to the
payer's bank. The signed check can be interpreted into some system, and
then transferred electronically to the paying bank. Thus, the paying bank
receives a different document, but in conveys the same authorization
(modulo adequate trust and security mechanisms).
So when you say:
I would say that "information ... intended to sign" requires some degree of
interpretation. How much is a choice to be made.
#g
Graham Klyne Baltimore Technologies
Strategic Research Content Security Group
I agree. I should have made clear that my hypothesis here is that it is
the 'model' that was signed, not the document.
That was not what I meant.
Good example. You can't say that (2) was signed by A because that is
not the statement A sent.
And the question for me is do we prefer an abstract syntax
that allows us to express what A sent to us, or are we happy to loose
information in the process of transforming RDF/XML to the abstract syntax.
I didn't intend that we get hung up on the nature of a signature. The
intent was to try to draw attention to the issue of whether the received
model is the same information as the sent one. I think we've agreed
that if the receiver skolemizes, then the information is not the same.
Consider running the scenario twice and the second time the anon resource
gets skolemized to skolem:54321. Given
(3) skolem:54321 hasProperty Y .
do (2) and (3) represent the same information. If the answer is yes,
then you must be treating skolem URI's differently from say URL's. If
the answer is no, they can't both represent the same information as in (1).
Brian
This must have been one of the messages my mailer lost, so here is my
belated response.
Sorry, I meant only to provide the back reference, not to rap your knuckles.
Yes. It would not be representing EXACTLY the same information,
since there is some information just in the use of the new name. You
can imagine a conversation going like this:
A: There is a frog in my sandwich.
B. OK. Let's call it 'joe', OK?
A: OK.
Now, there is a small sense in which B has contributed 'information'
to the discourse simply by giving the frog a name. But its a very
small sense. Compare with
A: A frog I will call 'joe'is in my sandwich.
B: OK.
To represent *exactly*, yes. But see the section on skolemisation in
the revised model theory I send out this morning.
OK, I agree. If the source sends you an existential, then you can
skolemise it, but you should not claim that the skolemised form is a
valid conclusion from what the source sent you. It isn't.
To illustrate why not, imagine sending it back to the source. If you
sent back the original, the source could agree that is what it said
to you; but if you send it back the skolemised form with the new
name, then it has no way to know if the use of that name might not
imply all kinds of content that it had not sent you. (If you
skolemised 'honestly', of course, then it wouldn't, but the source
has no way to check that.)
However, this really begs the question. If we have genuine
existentials in the langauge, then indeed we need to be able to
distincguish them from uses of names. But the issue, seems to me, is
whether or not to even have existentials in the language at all. We
could interpret anaonymous nodes as having 'unknown' URIs, or URI's
which are assigned arbitrarily in some non-conflicting way, ie
'dont-care' URIs. Then there would be no real existentials in the
language at all, so no need for the recipients to be able to make the
distinction. And, the skolemisation point is, nobody who was making
assertions would be any the worse off: they could still all say what
they want to say just as well, but they would be using names to say
it with.
I agree entirely. The issue is whether we allow people to sign
documents that express existentials, or whether we insist that
anything that is said, must be said using 'names' of some kind, so
that if you want to talk about a frog (even just to say it exists)
you have to give it a name. It doesn't cramp your style in any
serious way, is the point.
Pat Hayes
(650)859 6569 w
(650)494 3973 h (until September)
phayes@ai.uwf.edu
Right. But we could interpret anonNodes so that the sender would have
, in effect, skolemised, just by treating anonNodes as being in the
same category as urirefs. The language wouldnt be affected
significantly as far as making assertions was concerned, and there
would be a few communication advantages. Eg if anonNodes really are
exisententially quantified, then there is no way to refer to them
outside the document in which they occur. You can send me the
document, but neither you nor I can refer to that thing that exists:
eg I can't ask you anything about it. If it has a name, I can. Eg
A: there's a frog in my sandwich.
B: what color is it?
We can't do this since we don't have any way to say "it". Contrast:
A: there's a frog which I will call 'joe' in my sandwich.
B: what color is joe?
Right, good example; though I think we have to treat URI's
differently from URL's in any case.
Pat
(650)859 6569 w
(650)494 3973 h (until September)
phayes@ai.uwf.edu
aside
Is this in any sense related to Pierce's concepts of "Firsness",
"Secondness" and "Thirdness" (using terms from John Sowa's book on
Knowledge Representation, section 2.2, p60)?
Aaargh. I really don't know. This is one (of the very few) aspects of
Sowa's thinking that seems to be completely off the wall. I have had
many debates with him about it, some lasting for years. Other
Peircian scholars seem to have the same obsession with this stuff,
sometimes amounting almost to a religious conviction in a kind of
Peircian revealed truth. Nobody else seems to think it anything more
than an embarrassment or a joke, a kind of numerology. I have come to
the conclusion that there isn't anything in this
'firstness/secondness/thirdness' that is worth talking about at any
length, so I won't.
Taken in isolation, the statements of RDF seem to express ideas at
the level of "Secondness" -- relationship between things (and
"Firstness" -- types; characteristics inherent in things).
It seems that a bare statement of a relationship (Secondness) may
not be affected by use of an existential or a Skolem, but that you
are suggesting here that a statement of mediation (Thirdness) may be
sensitive to the difference.
Well, if I was saying that, I wasn't aware of it :-)
(I am beginning to wonder if the concept of provenance, or assurance
is a "Thirdness" beyond the ability of basic RDF to capture. In my
attempts to capture such things in RDF, I've invoked ideas like
contexts which, in turn, seem to require that statements are
mappable to quadruple elements, or triadic predicates. I'm still
absorbing some of this stuff, so can't fully separate fundamentals
from coincidental artefacts.)
/aside
I guess so, though you would only know that if you knew that you had
received the whole document since that is where the existentials are
quantified (see discussion in the strawdog model theory).
(unless that already provided constitutes a definite description),
Right, but it can't in RDF since the definite description uses a
universal quantifer.
(b) when given a constant identifier (which may or may not be a
skolem, and the receiver cannot know), then there is a possibility
that more information about the resource may be received in the
future.
Right.
Then my question would be: is this a difference we need to capture?
Good question.
Pat
(650)859 6569 w
(650)494 3973 h (until September)
phayes@ai.uwf.edu
Oooh! A bit of Web heresy there, I think. Depending on one's point of
view, the typical Web view is something like this:
(a) there is no difference between URLs and URIs -- they're just
identifiers, or
(b) a URL is just a kind of URI that contains some built-in hints about how
to use the Web to access the resource it names (e.g., protocol, addressing
information), which isn't otherwise semantically significant (for RDF).
Any way, I think that treating things differently based on a URL/URI
distinction is to go on very shaky ground.
#g
Graham Klyne Baltimore Technologies
Strategic Research Content Security Group
I spoke carelessly. What I should have said (since URLs are URI's, if
for no other reason) is that URL's can be treated in particular ways
that may not be applicable to all URI's, and that in RDF we can't
assume that any URI is going to be URL-like. URLs are a special case;
as you say, they contain built-in hints about access, but we can't
assume that all URIs have such hints.
Pat
(650)859 6569 w
(650)494 3973 h (until September)
phayes@ai.uwf.edu
Hi all,
I'm back from vacation, starting to catch up on the
backlog. Apologies if this issue has already been settled,
I did not see such in the minutes. (Speaking of which,
I don't see the minutes for July 27 in the archive).
Brian said:
There are not very many use cases for signing an internal
representation instead of the serialized form which is
actually transmitted. The main concerns people use signatures
to address are:
1) Did this come from whom it purports to come from?
2) Is this an unaltered version of what they sent?
Both of these are perfectly well-served by signing the
serialized form of a graph. Signing internal representations
ends up with a lot of problems around canonicalization
such as byte order issues, as well as a tendency to
restrict optimizations.
There are some other reasons not to take on the task
of signing the 'model', including:
1) insufficient number of WG members who are security experts
2) interference with the chartered XML signatures work (which
is the group that does have the security experts)
3) lack of demonstrated needs which can't be met by
signing the serialized form of a model.
4) lack of charter to take this on
5) time and effort
Lazy slob that I am, I don't want to take on more work
than is needed.
Ron Daniel Jr.
Standards Architect
Visit www.interwoven.com
Moving Business to the Web
Hi Ron,
From one lazy slob to another, I wasn't, nor I think was anyone else,
suggesting the working group take on the task of defining an
algorithm for signing a model.
Brian
Just to let you know where friday's minutes have gone...
By convention these should've been shipped on monday; however as I was
scribing, and have since then been entirely occupied with travelling to
and attending SWWS workshop here in stanford. I've the raw materials on my
laptop and will try to get them done during the drive up to sebastapol.
Dan
