Regarding "color vision deficiency", Vischeck ( http://vischeck.com/index.php3 ) says on this page: http://vischeck.com/what.shtml "Roughly 1 in 20 people have some sort of color vision deficiency.", and, on this page: http://vischeck.com/wade0004.shtml "Roughly 1 in 10 men are fully or partly colour blind."
Source: Dr Alex Wade, Research Fellow at Stanford University
Kathleen
Here are some suggestions for the Business Benefits document.
General comments: Omit references to ?you? and ?your?
Check for consistency of capitalization, punctuation, heading levels
Tone of document has a marketing emphasis. In general, suggest that
language be changed to more matter of fact, descriptive, tone. I have
included specific suggestions that address this.
1. Introduction
second paragraph, first sentence, change ?will? to ?may?
second paragraph, second sentence insert ?organization?s? after ?your?
third paragraph, first sentence, change add ?s? to the word ?duplicaton?
2. Increase Market Share
first paragraph, first sentence, change ?is? to ?can be?
first paragraph, first sentence, change ?from? to ?resulting from the
application of?
third sentence, need to check on statistics, or omit until we have the
evidence NOTE: WHO states that there are more than 120 million people
who are deaf, 180 million who have a visual disability, 40 to 45 million
who are blind and also have a physical disability; WHOSIS statistical
information provides statistics for many countries. Appears as if
incidence of disability at birth varies from around 6% to 26%.
Improve Usability for non-disabled
Collapse the following two second level bullets: ?While the primary Web
device?.? and ?An increading number of users will ?..?
Need to check on statistic on color-blindness. If can?t substantiate,
omit. NOTE: Georgetown Univ. states that 7% of males have some form of
color blindness Manu21-Gentic resource-Selected condition
Support for Low Literacy Levels
First paragraph, reword second sentence that begins ?Following the WCAG
1.0 recommendations?
Need reference citation for second bullet that begins ?many studies have
shown that?.?
Improve Search Engine Listings
Third bullet of the second level of bullets: omit ?important? omit ?
expensive and informative?
Repurpose Content
First paragraph, first sentence omit ?any?
Increase Support for Internationalization
Reword first sentence to something like: ?In an expanding global
marketplace, the WCAG 1.0 techniques can enhance the organization?s
capability of reaching a global audience.?
Assisting Access for Low-Bandwidth Users
First paragraph, second sentence change ?underdeveloped? to ?developing?
First paragraph, second sentence add ?s? to ?limitation?
First paragraph, third sentence can additional examples be used instead
of ?etc.??
First paragraph, third sentence change ?eg? to ?e.g.?
Second bullet, omit the sentence ?The bandwidth savings can be immene.?
Third bullet, omit ?significantly?
Fourth bullet omit ?rather than following?..?
Improve Efficiency
First sentence change ?will? to ?may?
Third bullet omit ?significantly?
Sixth bullet correct spelling for the word ?adaptatin?
Sixth bullet add ?s? to version
Site Search Engine Improvements
Omit sentence ?If your customers? searching is more successful?..?
Repurposing Content
First sentence add hyphen between ?Web? and ?enabled?
Second sentence omit ?and? preceding ?ensuring?
Second bullet: is the meaning of the phrase ?circling around? generally
understood?
Third bullet: suggest that the phrase ?technology-challenged? be
reworded. However, I do not have a specific suggestion.
Demonstrate Social Responsibility
Omit ?However, in an extremely competitive?..?
First bullet, omit ?disadvantaged?
Second bullet, can refer to WHOSIS statistics on age and disability
Third bullet: may want to add ?making the workplace more welcoming?
Reduce Legal Liability
First sentence, change ?institutes? to ?institutions?
This is a short list of the benefits from a business perspective:
Compliance with accessibility standards would allow
?contribute to increase in revenue generated from the government
sales.
?bid for the government contracts and to have a competitive edge
during the bidding process
?differentiate from competitors in the market place providing
competitive advantage that allows marketing to a wider audience; take a
leadership role in the industry
?create a compelling image in the community that contributes to the
marketing efforts
?make information more usable to all customers that would result in
increase in customer base
Natasha Lipkina
hp.com Platform Services
SNF2/Accessibility/Compliance/IRIS
Telnet: 236-5409
www.hp.com
Hi all,
These are my comments to the document:
1) Introduction - 2nd paragraph
I would change the word "Web Services" for "Internet Services". Nowadays
the term web services have some technical implications
2) Increase market share ...
1st paragraph: sentence 2 and 3 contradict among themselves somehow, I
would make one with only a figure.
* Improve usability for non-disabled and disabled visitors.
"Text alternatives": replace "boon" (not common term for non-native) for
benefit
* Support for Low Literacy Levels.
1st paragraph: "... is not their first" replace by "is not their
mother tongue"
Regards,
carlos
Dr Carlos A Velasco
Fraunhofer-Institut f?r Angewandte Informationstechnik (FIT.HEB)
[Fraunhofer Institute for Applied Information Technology (FIT.HEB)]
Schloss Birlinghoven, D53757 Sankt Augustin (Germany)
