this is an interesting message on a thread that has been on easi for a
while now. I thought we could discuss some of the points below on here?
Hi Petra,
The URL is http://www.drempelsweg.nl which should sound something like
www.thresholdaway.com in english.
The pages are in Dutch and there is no english translation of the pages.
The project is a government project and started in april 2001. 4 so
called ambassadors (one with a physical handicap, one with a visual
handicap, one with a mental handicap and one with a hearing handicap)
tried to get 100 intention explanations from commercial companies and
non profit organizations to make their web site accessible. Accessible
here means including priority 1 checkpoints of the WCAG 1.0.
In april 2002 there were more than 100 of these intention explanations
signed including banks, our parlement www.tweede-kamer.nl, some online
shops, our national train company www.ns.nl etc.
We are more than a year after the first companies signed the explanation
and I can say the intentions are good, but realy making a web site
accessible is another thing.
Most of those who signed the explanation publish more inaccessible pages
every day, than they make accessible. Another problem is, htat they
signed a explanation on making their web sites accessible based on
priority 1 checkpoints (give frames a clear title, add alternate
description to images etc.).
Our parlement web site www.tweede-kamer.nlclaimed that their web site
was accessible following the Drempels Web standard, but in practice I
could not read parts of the web site with Hal / Supernova screen reader.
Another problem is that priority 1 does not say anything about the use
of relative table sizes, instead of absolute measurements. This are
priority 2 check points. People with vision loss often use their own
large font and set their display resolution to a low value. The effect
of using absolute measurements is, that you get horizontal scroll bars,
because the page does not fit on the screen anymore. To read a line of
text you have to move the scroll bar from left to right for any line of
text you are reading. On some pages scroll bars are disabled and
information becomes inaccessible at all.
Also in the European Uninion they are taling about prority 1, as they
talk about making web site accessible.
Maybe this helps blind screen reader users, but not those other millions
having problems accessing the Internet.
I bring this topic up in the WAI several times, but there seems to be
less people there with the interests of low vision and elderly people in
mind.
All what is said is, that it should be solved in the client, but who can
point me to a browser, that let me reformat my pages without losing
information?
There is a Internet Explorer 5.5 and higher plugin called WebEyes (see
reformatting. But I do not like the concept of this company let owners
of web pages pay for making there web site WebEyes enabled.
The plugin does not work well with screen magnifiers.
Since a year I use a braille display and screen magnifier to access my
computer and the Internet. For accessing the Internet I always use the
free and exelent webformator (http://www.webformator.com) plugin. Acting
like a blind with WebFormator give me better access to the Internet than
all those WCAG priorities, because most web designer seems to stop after
adding alternate descriptions.
Regards Peter Verhoeven
Internet : http://www.magnifiers.org (The Screen Magnifiers Home Page)
Hallo Peter,
Please could You post an URL where we can find some information about
the
national project for Web Accessibility in the Netherlands. If it
possible I
would prefer the information in English
We are interested in what other countries do about the Web
Accessibility. We
are in Switzerland just at the beginning of the process of putting
some
disambility low in place.
Petra
----- Original Message -----
From: "Peter Verhoeven" pav@OCE.NL
Sent: Tuesday, November 05, 2002 8:01 AM
Subject: Re: What is the problem with accessible pop-up windows?
Hi,
BTW: such guidelines like about popup have not an priority 1
indication.
These priority indications from the WAI, cause that accessibility is
defined like checking priority 1. In the netherlands we have a
national
project where web sites are checked only on priority 1. Also section
508
is highly based on priority 1 and some priority 2 issues.
These priorities does not include low vision issues. So, it does not
help people having low vision and a lot of elderly people.
If a web site is accessible it does not say much about usibility.
For
example www.microsoft.com/enable is accessible, but not usable. 100
links on one page is too much. The structuring on that page is
visible,
but with a screen reader I read the text from top to bottom, column
by
column. A navigation where I can first select the category and after
that the link I'm interesting in, is much usable.
I also see a lot of web sites, where I must fill out a form. After
clicking the Submit button I get a new page with an error message,
telling me to go back because I made mistakes. After clicking the
Back
button in my browser I can start again with filling out the form
fields,
because they all became empty.
As user of a screen reader and magnifier I prefer JavaScript bases
PopUp
message boxes, including a clear title and error message.
In my opinion there is not any problem with PopUps if they are
functional and play a role in the interaction with the user. How
many
popups are there in Windows?
An advertisement PopUp is never fuctional in the interaction with
the
user and for users of screen readers very fustrating.
Regards Peter verhoeven
Internet : http://www.magnifiers.or (The Screen Magnifiers Home
Page)
I can understand the need to use a pop up window with an error
condition.
I would not subscribe to the need for knowledge about navigation
in
these
error situations. Usually, the error condition is described in
the
dialogue with only two options okay and details. The dialogue
needs to
explain how to address the problem as well. If the user presses
okay,
the
browser would take you back to the problem application, hopefully
placing
the user in the mistaken field or control. I should say, not a
problem
as
long as the dialogue is more accessible than the Windows error
dialogues
where you cannot read them a second time with your voice outputs
reading
commands. If the pop up or new window is to take you to a
different web
page, there is a necessity to explain to the user before taking
such new
window action. My two cents, anyway.
Alan,
The big issue with pop-up windows (having been in this
discussion
in the W3C) is one of location and navigation. For "blind
navigation,"
the two important aspects are knowing where you currently are
(location), and knowing how to get from where you are to where
you want
to be (navigation). Pop-up windows take the focus of the browser
from
the window where you think you are, and suddenly drop you into an
unexpected place. The result is disorientation, and often a
failure to
provide navigation back to where you want to be.
Imagine that you are leaving your front door to go to
work. You
forgot your lunch on the kitchen counter, so your magic door
decides
that you should be back in the kitchen to get your lunch. It
doesn't
tell you that it's going to do this, just, boom, there you are.
As a sighted person, you would know that something odd had
happened, because your refrigerator is not in your front yard.
But if
it was the middle of the night, and this happened, you might
crash into
the refrigerator because you expected the sidewalk to your garage
to be
there.
You would be very disoriented, and have a difficult time
figuring
out what had happened. Hence, pop-up windows (and magic doors)
are bad
things because then confuse both location and navigation.
Denis Anson, MS, OTR
Computer Access Specialist
College Misericordia
301 Lake St.
Dallas, PA 18612
-----Original Message-----
From: * EASI: Equal Access to Software &amp; Information
[mailto:EASI@MAELSTROM.STJOHNS.EDU] On Behalf Of Alan
Cantor
Sent: Monday, November 04, 2002 1:41 PM
Subject: What is the problem with accessible pop-up
windows?
I have a question about WCAG 1.0:
10.1: Until user agents allow users to turn off spawned
windows, do
not cause pop-up or other windows to appear and do not
change
the
current window without informing the user.
What problems are there with operating-system produced
pop-up
windows? Let's say a user enters data onto a form on a
web-based
application. The use hits the submit button, the data is
validated,
and is found to contain an error. If javascript pops an
error
message, there will be accessibility problems. But if
Windows
draws
a dialog box to report the error (with an appropriate
title
bar,
message text, and standard pushbuttons) is this a
problem?
What
techniques are more accessible than an accessible pop-up
window?
Alan
Alan Cantor
Project Manager
Strategic e-Government Implementation
e-Government, OCCS
416-212-1152
Alan.Cantor@mbs.gov.on.ca
Ross Eadie
Voice: (204) 339-5287
I could be wrong on this, but I seem to recall that the EU were talking
about priority 1 for a certain deadline to be followed by priority 2 for a
later one. This seems a reasonable practical response to the reality of
there being a large number of inaccessible pages and practices in use.
Anyone know if this is true, or if I am misremembering?
[I could be wrong on this, but I seem to recall that the EU were talking
about priority 1 for a certain deadline to be followed by priority 2 for a
later one.]
I know that this was the case in Germany, but not sure if this is the case for the whole of the EU.
BTW, it is the European Year of the Disabled in 2003 so perhaps Priority 3 should be a decent marker for accessibility. A minimum of AA-standard should surely be the norm now. I find that most sites that meet Priority One standards fall well short of being accessible to more than a small number of disabled people.
With the advent of better technology and an understanding of how accessibility impacts on sites I think that two levels of compliance are surely the way forward. This was a very interesting series of emails and I think that Petra's comments should not be ignored by those who design for the Web.
I could be wrong on this, but I seem to recall that the EU were talking
about priority 1 for a certain deadline to be followed by priority 2 for a
later one. This seems a reasonable practical response to the reality of
there being a large number of inaccessible pages and practices in use.
Anyone know if this is true, or if I am misremembering?
VirusChecked by the Incepta Group plc
Why does Andrew Denton's "The Year of the Patronising Bastard" immediately
spring to mind?
I hope I'm just being an old cynic and will be proved thoroughly wrong.
There have been grants available for this, but I have no details as to who is being provided with funds. Let's hope that this will be used correctly and not just wasted on inadequate services. I don't know if any Web-based services are benefiting, so we will have to wait and see.
I understand your cynicism, as will many people on this list, but please note that there are some among the general public that truely want to help and are not too far from offering something new in the way of Web development on an accessible level.
All I can say is watch this space and see what happens next year when the EU begins its Year of the Disabled. [cue image of person in wheelchair as the public understands that...]
Why does Andrew Denton's "The Year of the Patronising Bastard" immediately
spring to mind?
I hope I'm just being an old cynic and will be proved thoroughly wrong.
VirusChecked by the Incepta Group plc
Hello David
This weekend my political site was visited by a regional embassador for
Friesland of drempelsweg.nl who is nearly blind. I got a mail that this
site is accessible and he liked the added text why the site is built as
it is and how browsersettings can be changed when it is necessary. The
site meets AAA conformance.
In your mail it seemed that there are only Dutch sites that are not
still accessible but will be made accessible soon or later.. .
Hallo Ineke v/d Maat
Mijn complimenten over de website van GroenLinks Lelystad.
Ook prima de verklarende tekst waarom de website zo is opgebouwd.
succes verder met julie activiteiten.
Met vriendelijke groet,
van Nico Smits
(ambassadeur voor drempels Weg.nl)
Greetings
Ineke van der Maat
