Do you have a clear model for the way an SVG user agent
should interact with
assistive technology with respect to Title and Description? If I were
linearizing an SVG document, should the linearized version
include all titles
and/or descriptions? Should it stop descending the hierarchy
as soon as it
encounters a description? Are descriptions attached to nodes
of a complex
graphic each intended to be a stand-alone replacement for the
attached node?
Should they assume the context of encompassing descriptions?
Charles and I played with this some time ago, with a particularly nasty
piece of text in SVG.
I tried using relative positions, to sort out the ordering of text
elementw within the page, i.e. using the xy positions to determine
the order of presentation. It didn't work particularly well for that
example. I was using xslt to obtain text elements, titles etc.
Charles, you did something different IIRC, which produced an improvement?
AG::
[I have changed the subject line as I believe this is a somewhat different
question from what Charles was asking.]
** summary
If I recall correctly, what I took away from that exercise was that it is
preferrable to put the text in the XML in a reasonable reading order, and to
textref it into the layout from there.
While it is mathematically possible to re-assemble the reading order by
threading created in the markup, it is an inferior solution in that authoring
processes are unlikely to get it right. The experience we have had with
TABINDEX in HTML is relevant and cautionary. [Not a rule-out, but genuinely a
warning.]
** discussion
A linear discourse is not obvious from a graphical design. Unless the author
thinks about how to couch their message as a narrative, you don't get a
narrative flow by assembling the pieces that appear in a graphical exposition
of an idea. Fluent narrative has glue in it that the layout does without, for
one thing.
The XML format forces you to linearize the content somehow. Best practice is
that text appear in this flow already in the right order, such that if you
filter the content for the text, the order of what passes the filter is the
correct reading order, without needing any rearrangement.
Regards DaveP
NOTICE: The information contained in this email and any attachments is
confidential and may be legally privileged. If you are not the
intended recipient you are hereby notified that you must not use,
disclose, distribute, copy, print or rely on this email's content. If
you are not the intended recipient, please notify the sender
immediately and then delete the email and any attachments from your
system.
RNIB has made strenuous efforts to ensure that emails and any
attachments generated by its staff are free from viruses. However, it
cannot accept any responsibility for any viruses which are
transmitted. We therefore recommend you scan all attachments.
Please note that the statements and views expressed in this email
and any attachments are those of the author and do not necessarily
represent those of RNIB.
RNIB Registered Charity Number: 226227
Website: http://www.rnib.org.uk/ http://www.rnib.org.uk
Have you thought about plunging this hot sword into the freezing water on
GLWG's never-ending raves about
illustration/graphics/multi-media/text-equivalents? somehow it seems
pertinent to their "effort"?
Love.
EACH UN-INDEXED/ANNOTATED WEB POSTING WE MAKE IS TESTAMENT TO OUR HYPOCRISY
author
exposition
for
AG:: I've said it before and I'll say it again.
But there is a draft SVG techniques module on the table for next week's
meeting
and I haven't read that. So I am not up to date with where the group is on
this.
We need the graphical design stuff to have enough object by object
semantics so
we can guess a feasible order, and the graphical composition process to put
the
author through a few natural language questions to confirm or correct the
likely guesses, and we can then have a rote linearization that will stand
up to
widespread use by amateurs.
To make this work we have to develop a model that is cross-media-capable, that
is to say a model in which is is possible to compare and contrast the
rhetorical form of a poster and an essay on the same topic, and build a
database so that both views are generated by generic algorithms from what's in
the common database. [Does this sound like the Device Independence scenario?]
Developing the model is a lab course in comparative analysis of media. Like
comparative literature, except that the literature one is comparing is oral
vs.
visual vs. video game media.
See who all is interested in such an exercise.
Al
DaveP. Agreed, is this one for the next SVG round?
To add it to the accessibility section?
the XY solution failed because the visual content was arranged
in a two column table format.
Linear extraction of text elements in document order would
be very successful.
Regards DaveP
*************** snip here **************
NOTICE: The information contained in this email and any attachments is
confidential and may be legally privileged. If you are not the
intended recipient you are hereby notified that you must not use,
disclose, distribute, copy, print or rely on this email's content. If
you are not the intended recipient, please notify the sender
immediately and then delete the email and any attachments from your
system.
RNIB has made strenuous efforts to ensure that emails and any
attachments generated by its staff are free from viruses. However, it
cannot accept any responsibility for any viruses which are
transmitted. We therefore recommend you scan all attachments.
Please note that the statements and views expressed in this email
and any attachments are those of the author and do not necessarily
represent those of RNIB.
RNIB Registered Charity Number: 226227
Website: http://www.rnib.org.uk
