Hi everyone,
I have suggested several times in the past the concept that WCAG 2.0
(or 3.0, or whatever) could be used as a modularized "toolkit" for
constructing an accessibility policy. This is what we saw the federal
government do (with arguable success) with WCAG 1.0 to create Section
508 regulations. Since WCAG 1.0 was not intended to be used as such
(witness the de facto implementation policies embodied by the compliance
scheme), the effort was difficult.
After me proposing this enough times, someone (Jason or Gregg?) finally
got through to me that merely talking about it was not enough, and a
fleshed out straw man proposal would be helpful. Therefore, I've spent
the last few days working on "FWAP" -- Framework for Web Accessibility
Policies, based on WCAG 2.0 (draft 24 August 2001).
FWAP is a modularized approach to accessibility policies, one that
takes into account that different policy-setting entities may have
different priorities and may have different interpretations of the
WCAG 2.0 guidelines. Thus many of these modules are broken up along
PRACTICAL considerations rather than DOGMATIC. For example -- a
company may wish to require the use of lang="fr" on all their
pages (assuming French is the default language) but may not wish
to require xml:lang="fr" as that assumes the use of XML. A strict
reading of the guidelines could require both, as well as requiring
XHTML Strict, etc, etc.
The concept of "exclusion statements" is introduced in this document
as well. Basically those are a way of saying "if you make an exclusionary
policy, you've got to admit to yourself and the world." These are marked
as optional specifically because the idea is new and reflects even less
concensus than modularized accessibility policies, and because they are
not a key component of the FWAP system. I ask you to consider the
issue of exclusion statements as a separate proposal from the FWAP
framework in general.
You will notice that I've rewritten checkpoints to create FWAP
"requirements" -- this is intentional. I don't claim that my rewrites
are perfect, but they serve the straw man purpose of illustrating what
I mean -- and what I mean is that the way you write a FWAP requirement
is different from the way you write a WCAG 2.0 checkpoint. For
example, it's one checkpoint to say "provide text equivalents for
non-text content" -- but it's multiple FWAP requirements. This is
not an aesthetic choice but one of pure practicality -- web
developers don't think in terms of "do all my non-text content bits
have text equivalents?" but rather in terms of "do I need alt text
for my image? do I need longdesc? do i need functional equivalents
for my Java applet? do I need HTML versions of PDF files?" Any good
policy created for use within an entity MUST answer those questions
and cannot stay as vague as WCAG 2.0 does.
(This is not a criticism of WCAG 2.0 phrasing -- it is a statement,
and a true one, of the type of additional material that policy-makers
must provide to web developers beyond what WCAG 2.0 states.)
I welcome your comments on this. If I've left out any requirements,
or written them poorly, or whatever, those comments are accepted but
not requested, because what it comes down to is whether or not we like
this type of APPROACH. If we do, the specifics (which requirements
go with which modules, how we phrase things, what terminology we
use) can be worked out -- and if we don't like it, it doesn't really
matter if I got your favorite checkpoint "wrong."
So -- any feedback on the FWAP proposal?
--Kynn
PS: I call this "deconstructing WCAG 2.0" because it's necessary to
take apart WCAG checkpoints and break them down into their
necessary policy implications as part of the guideline -
policy practice. I call this "FWAP" because it's moderately
pronouncable, and because sometimes I want to *fwap* entities
which do not have sound web accessibility policies.
Kynn Bartlett kynn@idyllmtn.com
Kynn,
Thank you for investing the time and effort needed to write up a
proposal. This provides the material necessary to allow the working
group to consider the merits of the "policy framework" analysis.
There was much discussion of the relationship between WCAG and policy
at last week's face to face meeting. It was also made quite clear at
the interest group meeting, by developers themselves, that they need
clear guidance regarding how to formulate an implementation plan and
how to determine the order and priority with which to address various
checkpoints. It was also argued that organizations should be provided
with some flexibility in defining policies, but that entities with
fewer resources would benefit significantly from a limited range of
pre-defined policy options' being laid down in advance.
There was also disagreement over whether the working group should, or
should not, prioritize the checkpoints of the 2.0 guidelines.
Opposition to the establishment of priorities arose from two distinct
but complementary arguments. First, as noted above, it was asserted
that policy makers, whether at a governmental or organisational level,
would inevitably determine priorities based on a variety of pragmatic
considerations, which depend on context and circumstances that the
WCAG working group is in no position to foresee or take into account.
At an organisational level, for example, implementation priorities
will be determined by a variety of factors, including the authoring
tools and implementation technologies in use, whether the content is
being created anew or "retrofitted", etc. Given the perceived
inevitability of policy setting, it was argued that the guidelines
should support these efforts by providing some flexibility, but
without allowing unconstrained subsetting or modification of the
requirements.
It was correspondingly argued from a user's point of view that any
prioritization within the guidelines would necessarily be
discriminatory, since almost every checkpoint represents an absolute
barrier to accessibility for some identifiable group, and by
establishing priorities, the working group would not only be
legitimising, but also engaging in the practice of determining whose
access needs should be treated as of foremost importance, and whose,
by contrast, carry less weight. It was recognised that policy setters
will inevitably make such decisions, but these, it was suggested,
should be required to be transparent as to whose needs will and will
not be satisfied by any particular policy formulation. Metadata was
favoured as the preferred mechanism through which to match users' needs
with the policy implemented by a particular site. An analysis of the
interdependencies among the checkpoints of the 2.0 draft indicated
that most could be implemented independently of one another, but that
the benefits of some checkpoints could not be realised unless certain
other checkpoints were regarded as prerequisites. It was acknowledged
that any implementation and conformance framework provided by WCAG
must take cognisance of these interdependencies, as well as the more
specific dependencies arising at a technology-specific level.
My impression of the meeting is that proponents of priorities were
willing to consider alternative proposals that did not involve the
prioritisation of checkpoints as in WCAG 1.0. The underlying concern
was that content developers be provided with firm policy guidance, and
there were suggestions that this could be achieved by offering a
well-defined framework for decision making, including one or more
sample policies.
Some participants were also concerned to ensure that the
prioritization and policy-setting process carried out by organisations
would not be completely open-ended, so that content which was tailored
for access by a specific group defined according to disability,
could not be regarded as conforming to the guidelines.
The upshot of these deliberations appears to be that the guidelines
should impose constraints upon, and offer guidance in, the formulation
of policies, whether by governments, organisations or individual developers.
It was agreed that there should be clear and explicit "success
criteria" with which to determine whether web content conforms to each
checkpoint. There was no consensus as to whether the guidelines should
have an over-arching conformance scheme requiring anything more than
that developers be able to assert (via metadata or otherwise) which
checkpoints they claim to have implemented.
A possible solution not discussed at the meeting would be to regard
web content as conforming to the guidelines if it satisfies those
requirements defined in a policy that accords with the framework
provided by WCAG. This would be broadly consistent with Kynn's
proposal and generally reflective of the ideas arising from the face
to face meeting. It should be pointed out that I am not necessarily
advocating this idea, but merely raising it as a possibility which
accords with the arguments reported above.
Full details of last week's deliberations will appear in the minutes
of the meeting, which will be published as soon as Wendy, Charles and
Cynthia have compiled their notes and made them available on the web
site.
Kynn,
Aside from having some problems with the specific PDF modules you
included, there is a lot I like about this approach.
However, I'm a bit confused about the relationship between general
modules and technology specific modules. For instance, you included
both a module on abbreviations and on HTML abbreviations, with a
dependency noted. Is that the way to indicate a module which is a
technology-specific implementation of a more general requirement?
This seems to be a slightly different relationship than, say, the
Strict HTML's dependency on Valid HTML.
This also seems to scatter technology-specific requirements, rather
than gathering them together in one place so someone using that
technology can be sure to catch all the requirements, and someone
who isn't using a specific technology can ignore the related
requirements. But this may just be a problem of presentation, not of
content.
Loretta
I figured that would be the case -- I threw those in to say "hey, we
could do modules about PDF" but I don't have the expertise to say what
those modules would be, and on that I defer happily to you.
Yes, I'm not sure about how to do this, which is why I gave various
example of "how it could be done" with the intent to illustrate
possibilities. I'm not sure I like how it came out exactly; I think
some work on the "dependencies" is necessary, as well as specifically
on the issue of technology-specific modules. That is why this is a
rough draft. ;)
On the issue of abbreviations, as I see it, there is a non-tech
dependent way to do the checkpoint -- indicate abbreviations as
we do in plaintext -- and a tech-dependent which is "use the ABBR
tag." The two modules are meant to reflect this but maybe it is
not clear.
It probably is. :)
However, ideally what you'd have is something using this approach
to CREATE the actual policy which humans are meant to use, and that
should be arrangable in any way desired.
--Kynn
Kynn Bartlett kynn@idyllmtn.com
This is a fantastic job Kynn,
My first impression, before I nit pick etc is - cool
well done
Lisa
