PLEASE NOTE THE NEW URI FOR THE REVISED WCAG CURRICULUM:
DO NOT USE YOUR EXISTING BOOKMARK, FAVORITE OR INTERNET SHORTCUT, or you
will go to the wrong set.
If you want to read about what has been done to the set since you last
looked at it, see the change file:
EO members with time on their hands are encouraged to review the Curriculum
(primarily the Example set).
Regards,
Chuck Letourneau
Starling Access Services
"Access A World Of Possibility"
e-mail: info@starlingweb.com
URL: http://www.starlingweb.com
I've downlaoded the zip files and found that:
Download the QuickTime movie 'Catch" in .MOV format. gives you the car.zip
file once again.
Both in the downloaded version and online to stalingweb I've found that in
"Example slide 6 of 120"
examples
which are to non-existing files.
I think the right links are to .../sam19-0.htm and .../sam24-0.htm
It works if I change chk to sam in the file-names.
Kind regards
Helle Bjarno
Videncenter for Synshandicap / Visual Impairment Information Centre
Rymarksvej 1, DK-2900 Hellerup, Denmark
tlf: +45 39 40 31 00
e-mail: hbj@visinfo.dk / visinfo@visinfo.dk
URL: www.visinfo.dk
No Word, no PDF. The files were created in HTML originally... not in some
other format then translated. You can however download the entire HTML
pile in a zipped format. See the links near the bottom of the home page:
Regards,
Chuck
You will propbably shoot me for this request...but do you have a PDF or WORD
version? Shall I duck and run for cover now?
rob smile
From: Chuck Letourneau cpl@starlingweb.com
Sent: Monday, September 20, 1999 3:14 PM
Subject: Revised WCAG Curriculum - ready for review.
Starling Access Services
"Access A World Of Possibility"
e-mail: info@starlingweb.com
URL: http://www.starlingweb.com
Thanks for your comments Rob... my responses are interwoven and preceded by
CPL::
I just did a cursory review of the slides and I do not see one that details
how to make OBJECTS accessible, such as Macromedia (a popular methodology
used on the Mint's web site smile ). As Macromedia is widely used, i think
it would be prudent of use to provide an example.
CPL:: Macromedia is not an OBJECT. Loosely speaking, Macromedia is an
application that can be called by and run within the HTML OBJECT element.
To make the Macromedia application "accessible" you must provide
accessible equivalent content between OBJECT and /OBJECT . That content
might be a textual description of what the Macromedia presentation is
showing or doing.
CPL:: If, on the other hand you are asking for an example of how to make
the native Macromedia plugin or content created for it directly accessible,
then that is beyond the scope of both the Curriculum and even the WCAG
Guidelines. Macromedia is not a W3C technology. See Guideline 11 in the
WCAG [http://www.starlingweb.com/wai/wcag/gid12-0.htm] for a clear
statement of why authors should avoid non-W3C technologies if at all
possible. [I know... I know... that is somewhat unrealistic in practice,
but it points out that you should really be directing this question to
Macromedia, and not the WAI]
I am also inclined to show a non-animated javascript example, for example,
dynamic HTML. For example, mouse over, and calculations or the use of a
radio button that is automatically selected when a you type ina cell?
CPL:: MouseOver and various other event-handlers are demonstrated in
sam57-0.htm and sam70-0.htm. (Your browser has to support the FORM BUTTON
element for the event handlers to work... IE 4.0 and 5.0 do support
BUTTON... Netscape 4.0 doesn't... I don't know about Netscape 4.5 or other
browsers)
CPL:: I am willing to add other types of dynamic examples, if you are
willing to provide them to me. Not just suggestions please... I have lots
of suggestions. The actual script and markup would be nice to have.
by the way and IMHO, your efforts are GOLD! Greatly appreciate the effort!
/rob
Thanks Rob... appreciate the comment!
Regards,
Chuck
Starling Access Services
"Access A World Of Possibility"
e-mail: info@starlingweb.com
URL: http://www.starlingweb.com
Are there any plans to incorporate some descriptions in HTML and or W3C
recommendations?
The Logitech wingman force feedback mouse is not yet available in the UK.
purring cats besides this appears to be a product our students could benefit
from. Has anyone tried it?
bbbb
The joysticks are excellent, but for some reason not suitable for using with
non-games ware.
jay@peepo.com
Search the www with pictures at our 3 sites:
'98 STEM award site at http://www.peepo.com/signbrowser/lstem.htm
picture guide to the www at http://www.peepo.com/signbrowser/index.htm
Java beta at http://www.peepo.com/drivethru2/
We value your comments.
Send us a link to your pages, or favourite sites.
