Has anyone used the Opera browser at
I'm curious as Opera makes claims that it is
a superb choice for users with a handicap; it
can be navigated with the keyboard only.
Additional claims are Opera stands out
from the rest in that it actually adheres to
the HTML standard, making it the ideal
reference browser for web designers tired
of adapting their pages to either of the competitive browsers.
Thanks,
Greg
yippie1@rica.net
Yes, I like it very much. Also note that http://www.operasoftware.com
is an alternate URL for it.
I don't have "a handicap", but the keyboard navigation is pretty
nice. I use a few keyboard shortcuts simply for the sake of speed.
It's good for testing because it does HTML 3.2 pretty good, and
is highly configurable -- more than either MSIE or Navigator --
allowing you to easily toggle images/colors off and on, disable
or enable frames (vital for viewing "noframes" tags), and other
fun stuff.
It's only "missing" three major things:
* Full HTML 4.0 support (hopefully coming soon)
* Support of any kind for stylesheets (hopefully coming soon)
* Good support for Java (which I won't miss)
It does most everything else you'd want -- SSL, javascript,
plugins, etc.
One big selling point is the size -- it's still small enough
to fit on a floppy, and yet compares favorably to Navigator and
MSIE versions 3.*-something. Very fast both to start and load
pages, with lots of cache-level controls makes it good for
older computers.
Wow, I sound like an evangelist, don't I? Drawback is that it's
not simply a marketing tool for a huge corporation (as MSIE and
Navigator are), but a real product supporting a staff of around
15 people or so; this means that it's not given away for free, but
costs $35. (Half-off discount for educational users, such as
me-the-university-employee.) I think it's more than worth it,
though, and I urge everyone to give it a try.
No, I don't get paid for this. :)
Kynn Bartlett kynn@hwg.org
Vice President, Marketing and Outreach, HTML Writers Guild
Education &amp; Outreach working group member, Web Accessibility Initiative
I now I'm being picky, but....
I personally h a handicap", I would much rather with a disability"
David Clark
CAST, Inc.
Of yippie1
Has anyone used the Opera browser at
I'm curious as Opera makes claims that it is
a superb choice for users with a handicap; it
can be navigated with the keyboard only.
Additional claims are Opera stands out
from the rest in that it actually adheres to
the HTML standard, making it the ideal
reference browser for web designers tired
of adapting their pages to either of the competitive browsers.
Thanks,
Greg
yippie1@rica.net
I have used the Opera browser, and been very impressed with it. It does
not implement Java, nor much in the way of javascript if anything, but it
is nice to use and it is small in size.
Opera claims that they will be implementing CSS2 in the next couple of
months, which would be nice.
It is not, however, free - it costs about USD$35 I think. The demo
version is fully functional for a month.
Charles McCathieNevile
Greg asked
[snip snip snip]
I have a registered copy of Opera. It seems like a decent browser. I don't
use it often, though. The current version seems like no more than a MDI
variation on NCSA Mosaic. I don't like the fact that it is a relatively new
browser that costs $35 and doesn't support CSS. The only way to manipulate
rendering is with HTML 3.2 or HTML 4 transitional markup. One more reason
for people to use deprecated HTML markup. I would really like it if it was
as revolutionary as 'the press' says. Give me CSS and I will follow. I
don't really care if it supports Java, ActiveX, Javascript or anything. I
just want it to handle not supporting them. I haven't tested its handling
of objects, I just thought that I should mention it.
That is my take on Opera. In general, I think that it has great potential.
,David Norris
World Wide Web - http://www.geocities.com/CapeCanaveral/Lab/1652/
Illusionary Web - http://illusionary.dyn.ml.org/ -- 02:00 - 10:00 GMT
Video/Audio Phone - callto:illusionary.dyn.ml.org
Page via mail - 412039@pager.mirabilis.com
ICQ Universal Internet Number - 412039
E-Mail - kg9ae@geocities.com
Behalf Of Charles McCathieNevile
