I am not sure this will hold but
As a general rule....
I think we should try to design guidelines that do not forbid anything - but
rather tell people how to do things so that they will be accessible.
When the next version comes out next week - we should look through it to see
how it looks in this regard.
Gregg
Gregg C Vanderheiden Ph.D.
Professor - Human Factors
Depts of Ind. and Biomed. Engr. - U of Wis.
Director - Trace R &amp; D Center
Gv@trace.wisc.edu, http://trace.wisc.edu/
For a list of our listserves send "lists" to listproc@trace.wisc.edu
I agree with this approach. Consistent with this approach, I feel,
is a methodology of "guiding" which says "well, you -can- do it, but
to do it right you have to do (x), (y), and (z), and that will still
mean you're losing out on (a), (b), and (c), but if you REALLY REALLY
WANT TO, hey, it's your choice."
This isn't forbidding anything -- but it's making it clear that there
are definite problems with certain approaches, and if someone chooses
to follow that path, they at least will be aware of the consequences
of their actions.
--Kynn
Kynn Bartlett kynn@reef.com
Technical Developer Liaison
Reef North America
Tel +1 949-567-7006
ACCESSIBILITY IS DYNAMIC. TAKE CONTROL.
I think even WCAG 1.0 can be regarded as consistent with this method of
specifying guidelines, in that the word "avoid" was deliberately chosen to
imply the existence of alternative, more accessible, means of achieving
the same objective. WCAG 2.0 should, however, make this point clearer, to
avoid (pun intended) giving the impression that there are prohibitions in
the guidelines that would limit the capacity of content creators to design
web sites that fulfill their respective purposes.
Gregg,
You make an excellent point!
As soon as you "forbid" something, you find out that some disabled group
at an opposite end of some spectrum "needs" what you've forbidden ... we
need to explain the consequences, and let the author decide what is most
appropriate for his/her site.
Anne
Anne Pemberton
apembert@erols.com
Excellent point -- the body of knowledge for disability access
considerations, beyond those of blind people (which are generally
well-explored these days), is pretty skimpy. We're -still- in the
exploration/discovery process of "what works", and as we see more
solutions like Reef's -- which allow you to build an interface for
ONE audience without fearing interference with OTHER audiences'
interfaces -- we will encounter more and more solutions which will
"work" for some people and "not work" for others.
Forbidding them outright will cause a lot of problems, in the same
way that alternate interfaces stated "as a last resort" cause problems
when usable, accessible design is your "first resort"!
Absolutes should be avoided, always.
--Kynn
Kynn Bartlett kynn@idyllmtn.com
Absolutely!
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
