Is it appropriate to voice a concern about the compliance
levels as written? This is from experience with explaining
the WCAG "single A, double AA, triple AAA" system recently
at FedWeb.
The problem is CSS.
It's a priority 2 checkpoint to use CSS:
3.6 Use style sheets to control layout and presentation.
[Priority?2]
Many people will be reluctant to do this at this stage, which
means that they will be unable to achieve double AA rating.
Which is not bad in and of itself, except when it causes them
to say, "oh, well, if that requires CSS, then we won't choose to
do a double AA rating, we'll just go for single A compliance."
Which means plenty of other good and useful priority 2 checkpoints
_will_ be ignored. Many people -- especially those in government
as I found last week -- want very precise boundaries on what does
and does not need to be done. If you require something that they
will NOT want to do as part of double AA compliance, then they will
likely not do ANYTHING that's a P2.
This is a concern to me from a practical standpoint, as one who
has to deal with many other web authors, some of whom are not
nearly as idealistic as I am. I don't give a whit for compliance
ratings, I'll strive to make a page accessible regardless. But
I have met many people who have flat-out said "well, if I can't
get double AA compliance without CSS, then I'll just have to go
with single A compliance."
Apologies for not realizing this sooner and raising the point
sooner; this was the first time since the compliance language
was finalized that I taught a course to web authors and realized
the potential problem. I figured you would rather hear it now,
even if it's too late for an "official" change, than to not hear
it at all.
Suggestion: Perhaps allow an optional "Plus" rating for anyone
who meets all of one compliance level and half of the next; so
if I meet all P1s and most P2s, I can have "single A plus (A+)
compliance"? Basically I want to be able to encourage people to
meet as many checkpoints as they can, even if there may be one or
a few of a given priority level that they are _unable_ to meet.
(Apologies if this has already been raised; after about 15 minutes
of looking I haven't yet found this issue addressed on the GL
site or the archives for the list.)
Kynn Bartlett kynn@idyllmtn.com http://www.kynn.com/
Chief Technologist, Idyll Mountain Internet http://www.idyllmtn.com/
Become AWARE of Web Accessibility! http://aware.hwg.org/
Dan Shafer likes AWARE, so will you! http://www.kynn.com/+shafer
Next Trip: Toronto, Canada (13 May-17 May) http://www8.org/
Essentially my position is that the compliance ratings should not be
eroded as a concession to those who are unwilling to deploy CSS. I fully
appreciate the concern but would maintain that the problem lies with the
authors and user agent developers, not with the guidelines.
All of the newer graphical browsers, and at least one of the text-based
versions, now support CSS, so the remaining problem is merely one of
education. If, as the guidelines require, structural elements are used
appropriately, this of itself should be sufficient to ensure that older
user agents can present the document intelligibly even when the value of
the style sheets is thereby lost.
I would conclude by emphasizing that I would be strongly opposed to any
erosion of the requirement, which is integral to the double-a rating, that
style sheets be used to control layout and presentation.
In any case, if the guidelines proceed as a recommendation, we have now
long since moved beyond the final point at which substantive changes can
be made.
I would like to add that the requirement to use style sheets is one of the
fundamental keys to accessibility in the guidelines. In the past, there
has always been a tension between the desire to provide a visually
pleasing representation of a document, and the need to ensure that it can
be accessed across a range of output devices and media types.
Considerations of structure and content have often given way to the
demands of presentation. Style sheets are the best, indeed the only
mechanism by which both aims can be achieved without sacrificing one in
favour of the other. They overcome the presentation/access dilemma. If web
content is not to degrade into an unstructured mess consisting of complex,
nested tables interspersed with images, and if documents are to be well
designed, both visually and structurally, allowing structural navigation,
facilitating the application of audio and braille formatting techniques so
as to become equally accessible throughout the full range of available
media, then style sheets are an indispensable component of our developing
web infrastructure.
During the evolution of the guidelines, it has often been argued that a
particular requirement ought not to be imposed, at least at a priority 1
level, upon authors, because user agents are available which support newer
features that avoid what would otherwise be an access problem. It is
equally fair to argue that most people should now be able to obtain, at
minimal cost, a user agent that supports style sheets, and that in any
case, if style sheets are not supported, a well structured document will
be cleanly displayed in any case (albeit with a loss of the formatting
specified in the style sheet).
Thus I would argue that the treatment of style sheets in the guidelines as
a priority 2 access requirement, along with the demands that content and
presentation be separated to enable the format of documents to be
expressed in different media, is perfectly appropriate, indeed necessary.
