Technique 1.1.K is priority 3. However, it is a technique of a Priority 1
checkpoint.
If the priority of the WCAG checkpoint is not inherited, then how do we
define priorities for this document? I do not believe we can inherit the
priority definitions from WCAG. The priority definitions would probably be
similar to ATAG [1] yet have to be stated in the context of this document.
If we define priorities for this document, are we expecting people to
conform to it?
If we are expecting people to conform to it, then I think that implies we
want to take this to Recommendation status. Do we want to take it to
Recommendation or release it as a Note?
thoughts?
--wendy
[1] http://www.w3.org/TR/1999/PR-WAI-AUTOOLS-19991026/#priorities
wendy a chisholm
world wide web consortium
web accessibility initiative
madison, wi usa
This is a mistake in the ERT. Requiring a text description for ASCII art is
priority 1. 'Provide a means to skip over multi-line ASCII art' is priority
3. So technique 1.1.K should be priority 1.
The techniques should inherit the priority of the WCAG checkpoint.
What are the politics involved in taking it to a Recommendation? Would it
slow us down?
Chris
be
ok.
then do we need a priority on each technique or can we just leave them on
the checkpoint? I guess if we want the techniques to stand on their own,
then we should include priorities on techniques.
I think we should ask what effect we want to have rather than how long it
will take us to reach our goal. As I see it, the question is, "is this
document informative or normative?" in other words are we creating
something that acts as a guide for people who are creating E&amp;R tools (a W3C
Note), or is this something that they will want to conform to and become an
industry "standard" (a W3C Recommendation). (probably not the best
description of the differences...)
At this point, I think we are working towards a Note. It seems to be
supportive material for the other 3 guidelines documents (WCAG, ATAG, UAAG).
thoughts?
--wendy
wendy a chisholm
world wide web consortium
web accessibility initiative
madison, wi usa
Sure. Each technique will have a priority that it gets from its associated
checkpoint.
I don't see our document as a standard, that others can work towards, as we
will be constantly changing it. Once the ERT is complete and Bobby and
A-Prompt implement it then we'll get feedback from users. We may hear from
the users of the software that we're way off and things need to be changed.
Chris
we
we
W3C
an
UAAG).
I think Techniques should inherit priority from the Checkpoints too. It
would not be necessary for Techniques to identify their priority then,
though we may choose to do so for convenience.
I agree that, though the Techniques may be treated as normative (tools may
fully conform to them), we probably don't want to actually make it so. Chris
brings up good reasons for that. I'd also say that the Techniques are
properly viewed as an "interpretation" of the WCAG; making them normative
might freeze some of the room for interpretation and thus take us out of our
own bounds.
Michael
From: w3c-wai-er-ig-request@w3.org
[mailto:w3c-wai-er-ig-request@w3.org]On Behalf Of Wendy A Chisholm
Sent: Tuesday, January 25, 2000 3:01 PM
Subject: Re: Priorities
I agree. The most important focus is the guidelines documents. Also, much
of what we're doing involves heuristics, not algorithms, and there are lots
of clever folks out there who might come up with something even better.
Len
Leonard R. Kasday, Ph.D.
Institute on Disabilities/UAP, and
Department of Electrical Engineering
Temple University
423 Ritter Annex, Philadelphia, PA 19122
kasday@acm.org
(215) 204-2247 (voice)
(800) 750-7428 (TTY)
