From:Kelly Ford [SMTP:kford@teleport.com]
I hope folks will consider writing the people who run The Gap and letting
them know what you think of their "strategy" to not address accessibility.
[DJW:]
That would just penalise them for honesty, when most
commercial sites are probably the same.
I'll make it ieasy to contact the gap. I wonder what their "strategy is?
You are not signed in.
register
sign in
Common/logo
common/nav_male_off
Common/nav_female_off
Common/gifts_off
Common/bag
Common/checkout
Common/help
terms
Welcome to the Gap Web Site ("Site"). Please review the following basic
terms that govern your use of and purchase of products from our Site. Please
note
that your use of our Site constitutes your agreement to follow and be bound
by those terms (the "Agreement").
GENERAL
We may from time to time change the terms that govern your use of our Site.
Your use of our Site following any such change constitutes your agreement to
follow and be bound by the terms as changed.
We may change, move or delete portions of, or may add to, our Site from time
to time.
SITE CONTENTS
Unless otherwise noted, all materials, including images, illustrations,
designs, icons, photographs, video clips, and written and other materials
that appear
as part of this Site (collectively, the "Contents") are copyrights,
trademarks, trade dress and/or other intellectual properties owned,
controlled or licensed
by Gap, Inc. collectively, and its subsidiaries and/or affiliates ("Gap").
The Site as a whole is protected by copyright and trade dress, all worldwide
rights, titles and interests in and to which are owned by Gap. GAP, GAP.COM,
GAPKIDS, BABYGAP, GAP FOUNDATION and all other GAP trademarks appearing at
this Site are trademarks of Gap and its subsidiary, Gap (Apparel) Inc.
The Contents of our Site, and the Site as a whole, are intended solely for
personal, noncommercial (other than for the purchase of merchandise from our
site) use by the users of our Site. You may download or copy the Contents
and other downloadable materials displayed on the Site for your personal use
only. No right, title or interest in any downloaded materials or software is
transferred to you as a result of any such downloading or copying. You may
not reproduce (except as noted above), publish, transmit, distribute,
display, modify, create derivative works from, sell or participate in any
sale of,
or exploit in any way, in whole or in part, any of the Contents, the Site,
or any related software.
USER COMMENTS, FEEDBACK, POSTCARDS AND OTHER SUBMISSIONS
All comments, feedback, postcards, suggestions, ideas, and other submissions
disclosed, submitted or offered to Gap on or by this Site or otherwise
disclosed,
submitted or offered in connection with your use of this Site (collectively,
"Comments") shall be and remain Gap's property. Such disclosure, submission
or offer of any Comments shall constitute an assignment to Gap of all
worldwide rights, titles and interests in all copyrights and other
intellectual properties
in the Comments. Thus, Gap will own exclusively all such rights, titles and
interests and shall not be limited in any way in its use, commercial or
otherwise,
of any Comments. Gap is and shall be under no obligation (1) to maintain any
Comments in confidence; (2) to pay to user any compensation for any
Comments;
or (3) to respond to any user Comments.
You agree that no Comments submitted by you to the Site will violate any
right of any third party, including copyright, trademark, privacy or other
personal
or proprietary right(s). You further agree that no Comments submitted by you
to the Site will be or contain libelous or otherwise unlawful, abusive or
obscene material. You are and shall remain solely responsible for the
content of any Comments you make.
You agree that Gap may use and/or disclose information about your
demographics and use of the Site in any manner that does not reveal your
identity.By participating
in Site sweepstakes, contests, promotions, and/or requesting promotional
information or product updates, you agree that Gap may use your information
for
marketing and promotional purposes.
GAP'S COMMUNICATIONS TO YOU
You agree that Gap may send electronic mail to you for the purpose of
advising you of changes or additions to this Site, about any of Gap's
products or
services, or for such other purpose(s) as Gap deems appropriate.
PRODUCT INFORMATION
Most Gap products displayed at the Site are available in select GAP stores
in the United States and select foreign markets while supplies last. In some
cases, merchandise displayed for sale at the Site may not be available in
GAP stores. The prices displayed at the Site are quoted in U.S. Dollars and
are
valid and effective only in the United States.
COLORS
We have made every effort to display as accurately as possible the colors of
our products that appear at the Site. However, as the actual colors you see
will depend on your monitor, we cannot guarantee that your monitor's display
of any color will be accurate.
LINKS TO OTHER WEB SITES AND SERVICES
To the extent that this Site contains links to outside services and
resources, the availability and content of which Gap does not control, any
concerns
regarding any such service or resource, or any link thereto, should be
directed to the particular outside service or resource.
DISCLAIMER
THIS SITE AND ALL CONTENTS OF THE SITE ARE PROVIDED ON AN "AS IS" BASIS
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING WITHOUT
LIMITATION
WARRANTIES OF TITLE OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. YOU ACKNOWLEDGE, BY YOUR USE OF THE SITE, THAT YOUR
USE
OF THE SITE IS AT YOUR SOLE RISK, THAT YOU ASSUME FULL RESPONSIBILITY FOR
ALL COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH ALL NECESSARY SERVICING OR REPAIRS OF ANY
EQUIPMENT
YOU USE IN CONNECTION WITH YOUR USE OF OUR SITE, AND THAT GAP SHALL NOT BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES OF ANY KIND RELATED TO YOUR USE OF THIS SITE.
INDEMNIFICATION
You agree to defend, indemnify and hold Gap harmless from and against any
and all claims, damages, costs and expenses, including attorneys' fees,
arising
from or related to your use of the Site.
MISCELLANEOUS
Unless otherwise specified and except to the extent GAP products are offered
for sale in the United States through this Site, this Site and the Contents
thereof are displayed solely for the purpose of promoting Gap's products and
services available in the United States and select foreign markets. This
Site
is controlled and operated by Gap from its offices in San Francisco,
California.
This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the State
of California, without regard to any conflict of law provisions. Any dispute
arising under this Agreement shall be resolved exclusively by the state and
federal courts of the State of California, County of San Francisco and/or
the
Northern District of California.
TERMINATION
This Agreement is effective unless and until terminated by either you or
Gap. You may terminate this Agreement at any time. Gap also may terminate
this
Agreement at any time and may do so immediately without notice, and
accordingly deny you access to the Site, if in Gap's sole discretion you
fail to comply
with any term or provision of this Agreement. Upon any termination of this
Agreement by either you or Gap, you must promptly destroy all materials
downloaded
or otherwise obtained from this Site, as well as all copies of such
materials, whether made under the terms of this Agreement or otherwise.
Table with 2 columns and 3 rows
Questions? Feedback?
call 1-800-GAP-STYLE
(1-800-427-7895) anytime.
sorry, I only meant to send the phone number.
I have been away for a few days so this comment is late in coming.
I have also had to go out and replace my waste bin as I reshaped my last
one whilst kicking it round the room in frustration at some peoples'
surprise over the attitude of Gap.
"You can't tell where you don't show.......You can't lead where you won't go."
All forms of advertising no matter the medium, are targeted. Gap have
obviously decided that disabled people in general do not buy their
products, so why cater to their needs? Now whilst you can argue the
accuracy (or integrity) of this decision. There is no point at the moment
screaming "foul play" then sitting back and doing nothing about it.
Disabled people in the U.K. currently spend ?33 billion a year. (source
Radar, I have no figures for the States) It is also true to say much of
this money is government funded. But one hell of a lot isn't. And all of it
is spent somewhere. Ten-20 realized this from the word go, the problem
being ten-20 is funded by me......alone(and always will be), so development
is slow.
If any change is to be brought about regarding accessibility, then we need
to show, not tell. Commercial decisions are based on facts, figures and
educated guesstimates. We need to prove to commercial minds that disabled
people are worth going that extra few bucks to accommodate. The only way is
to prove it. Give them a working model. Once that is done, we may all get
trampled in the rush to conform.
What is more that is exactly what ten-20 intends to do.
smiles
Paul Davis
