I'm leaving the W3C and thus must resign from the WG. My last
full day at the W3C will be Nov 12 although I do expect to have
some limited access on Nov 20.
Anyhow, the editor's copy of the Test Case WD:
is ready for publishing. The changes since the first WD are
summarized in:
and the open issues are logged in:
Good luck and please, keep/make it simple, simple, simple :-)
Art
Hi Art,
I am very sorry that we are to lose you. You have been stalwart in supporting
the development of RDF, both before the WG was formed and within it. I am sure
I speak for us all when I express our thanks for your efforts and support in our
endeavor and best wishes in the future.
Whilst we have said that we would allow a week for a review of a new WD before
publication, it would be fitting if we could approve publication of your latest
version at this weeks telecon. I therefore propose to put that on the agenda.
Can I have at least three WG members to help out by giving the updated document
a detailed review in time for any *essential* changes to be made before the
Friday telecon.
Brian
Maybe this wasn't clear. If you will review this document by Friday, please
respond to this message.
Brian
I have reviewed this document (http://www.w3.org/2001/08/rdf-test/), and I
think it's fine for publication as a working draft. I have the following
editorial comments that might be considered for some future revision:
Section 1.1:, final sentence, suggest:
"... if such test cases are donated to the W3C, it may add them to the
overall set of test cases."
Section 2.3:
(I've not reviewed the actual test cases cited.)
I would suggest that test cases with .rdf and .nt files each be presented
in a single row of the table, e.g.
Issue Test case Status
amp-in-url test001.rdf, .nt Approved
etc.
The "Approved" column content seems like redundant text. Maybe using the
date of approval as the anchor text? (This would make it easier to locate
the appropriate message(s) in offline email archives.)
Section 3.1, 1st para, final sentence.
I find the reference to [RDFMT] does not read very clearly. I suggest:
"The meaning of these terms is defined in the model theory [RDFMT] being
developed as part of the RDF Core WG activity."
Section 3.3:
I have been in discussion with some I18N folks about the issue of
representation on non-ASCII URI characters in CC/PP. Based on those
discussions (which are almost but not quite finalized) I offer something
the following:
RFC 2396 [URI], section 2.1, discusses the use of non-ASCII characters in
URIs, and notes in particular that a URI may be represented as an original
character sequence or as a URI character sequence.
N-triples uses only US-ASCII characters, so the representation of URI
values in N-triples should be as a URI character sequence. This is
obtained from an original character sequence value expressed using Unicode
characters by applying the rules defined in [Charmod] section Character
Encoding in URI References. That is, disallowed characters are represented
in UTF-8 and
then encoded using the %HH format, where HH is the byte value expressed using
hexadecimal notation.
If N-triples is changed to use UTF-8 encoding, then (following XML, see
transforming the URIs to use just US-ASCII. (This approach is also
indicated for XML schema datatype 'anyURI'.) The second paragraph might
then be changed to:
N-triples uses UTF-8 character encoding, so the representation of URI
values in N-triples should be as an original character sequence expressed
by Unicode characters, coded using UTF-8. When the URI is required in the
form of a URI character sequence (e.g. for retrieving a resource referenced
by the URI), it is transformed by applying the rules defined in [Charmod]
section Character Encoding in URI References. That is, disallowed
characters are represented in UTF-8 and then encoded using the %HH format,
where HH is the byte value expressed using hexadecimal notation.
Section 3.4:
The example is un-printable: the NT text is too wide to fit on a page.
Actually, this is a general problem I have with N-triples as defined: the
insistence that each statement be on a single line makes the test case text
hard to read (and hence hard to review). I think the extra effort required
for a machine implementation to read an N-triple statement that splits over
2 or 3 lines would be trivial compared with the added difficulty the single
line form creates for human readers. I would like to see additional line
breaks permitted between the URIs; e.g.
triple ::= subject (ws* eoln)? ws+ predicate (ws* eoln)? ws+ object ws* '.' ws*
References:
Include reference to RFC 2396 as [URI] ?
#g
Graham Klyne MIMEsweeper Group
Strategic Research http://www.mimesweeper.com
