This morning, W3C releases HTML4 as W3C recommendation
Check http://www.w3.org/ for details
(the final spec is at www.w3.org/TR/REC-html40/)
It includes the following:
"Many thanks to the Web Accessibility Initiative task force (WAI HC
group) for their work on improving the accessibility of HTML and to
T.V. Raman (Adobe) for his early work on developing accessible forms."
Even thought we're not done with H, or C, and PF is about to start
(we're circulating the final charter within W3C Management this week)
I want to take this moment in time as an opportunity to thanks all the
people that got involved in this group.
Particularly:
Al Gilman, for all the effort and good work he puts in
the final days of the HC review back in mid-October (while I was in
Japan fighting with a telephone plug my latop modem didn't like)
Jason White, for all the invaluable insight he gave us even though
his main activity was getting prepared for his university exam on
law and philosophy
Dave Raggett, for his continuous commitment, participation and
education effort to the group. Without his expertise, we couldn't
possibly have completed our task within our schedule.
Happy Holiday and be 1998 as rewarding as 1997 for all of you.
It is also noteworthy that accessibility is mentioned, on several
occasions, in the press release at http://www.w3.org/Press/HTML4-REC
I wish to express my utmost appreciation for the great effort and
commitment which has been shown by members of this working group
throughout the HTML 4.0 review process. It is a privilege to have the
opportunity to work with you.
Lots of people to thank on this round, actually. Thanks as well to Greg
Lowney of Microsoft Corp. for his contributions on tables.
I'm sending out a general &amp; brief summary of the new access supports in
HTML 4.0 and I'll copy that to this list, although all the HC WG
participants should be on this list as well. We will be doing more focused
publicity of the HTML 4.0 accessibility improvements later in January, and
so if you have suggestions of things to highlight at that time, please let
me know.
Thanks,
Judy
Judy Brewer jbrewer@w3.org 617-258-9741
Director, Web Accessibility Initiative International Program Office
World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)
MIT/LCS Room NE43-355
545 Technology Square, Cambridge MA 02139 USA
