See
So what happened to the XML Schema datatype facets? Are they part of RDF
datatypes?
Proposed response:
punt
(This is neither an accept nor a reject, just close).
plus some changes
OLD TEXT
Datatypes are used by RDF in the representation of values such as integers,
floating point numbers and dates.
RDF uses the datatype abstraction defined by XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes
[XML-SCHEMA2], and may be used with any datatype definition that conforms to
this abstraction, even if not actually defined in terms of XML Schema.
A datatype mapping is a set of pairs whose first element belongs to the
lexical space of the datatype, and the second element belongs to the value
space of the datatype:
NEW TEXT (2nd para, 1st and 3rd para unchanged)
RDF uses the datatype abstraction defined by XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes
[XML-SCHEMA2].
RDF be used with any datatype definition that conforms to the following
abstraction, even if not actually defined in terms of XML Schema.
(With e-mail message)
Dear Peter,
the rdf documents do not provide an ontology for datatypes,
and the RDF Core WG does not have an opinion as to whether the facets of an
XML Schema datatype are part of the same datatype when considered as an RDF
datatype.
In as much as the facets impact the lexical-to-value mapping, the lexical
space or the value space, the facets are visible and implementations should
be aware of them.
However, we did change the wording in response to your comment:
*OLD TEXT*
became
*NEW TEXT*
Jeremy
The above text says to me that the definition of rdfs:Datatype
is identitical to the definition of a datatype in XML Schema,
which I think is where the misunderstandings about the "missing"
facets is coming from.
Perhaps some wording with even less rigorous ties to the actual
definitions in the XML Schema specs:
"RDF uses a datatype abstraction compatible with that defined
by XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes [XML-SCHEMA2]. ..."
This then (hopefully) avoids a strong/literal interpretation that
the definition of RDF datatypes is *identical* to the definition
provided by XML Schema (which it is not, since the RDF datatype
abstraction is generalization of that defined by XML Schema,
albeit a fully compatible one).
Yup. Definitely keep this latter part.
Patrick
Re. the following, y'all might want to take a look at the wording in
the current editor's draft of semantics, particularly:
The datatype map which also contains the set of all pairs of
the form  http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema# sss ,sss  , where
sss is a built-in datatype which has well-defined lexical and
value spaces and a lexical-to-value mapping and is named sss
in XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes [XML-SCHEMA2 ], eg
decimal ,string , is referred to here as XSD.
Note the qualification to 'which has a well-defined...'
Pat
IHMC(850)434 8903 or (650)494 3973 home
40 South Alcaniz St.(850)202 4416 office
FL 32501 (850)291 0667 cell
phayes@ai.uwf.edu http://www.coginst.uwf.edu/~phayes
s.pam@ai.uwf.edu for spam
