Hey all,
This was the one group where I thought this would be of interest.
I recently noticed on a weblog that KPMG.ca as well as KPMG.com
completely shatters in Gecko-based browsers, and it turned out it was
because the site was handing over NN4.x code to Gecko. So, in a fit
of something that induced initiative, I grabbed local copies of
KPMG.com's main page and Javascript files, and hacked at their
scripts until they used the W3C DOM enough to work in both Gecko and
IE. It's available at http://www.meyerweb.com/eric/fixed/kpmg/ .
Note that it's not a full standards makeover-- the markup is still
crawling with FONT tags, probably has poor element nesting, and uses
a ton of scripting to even assemble the page. And I suspect some of
the DOM scripting isn't W3C DOM, but based on shortcuts that happen
to work in both IE and Gecko. I'm not really a DOM or a Javascript
expert, so I did what I could and, with help, was lucky I got that
far. I freely admit that what I did was a hack job on a hack job,
and could no doubt be improved upon. Since it was done as a personal
gratis project, I was willing to give up only so much of my Saturday
afternoon to it.
Anyway, I'm sharing all this with you for two reasons. One is
that if other people want to fix things up further, please be my
guest. I'd love to see it based solely on the W3C DOM and use
validating, non-FONT HTML, and if that got it working in Opera and
other browsers, so much the better. (I have no idea if Opera's DOM
support can deal with the site's intended effects or not.)
The other reason is to propose that it might be worthwhile for the
group to do this on occasion to high-profile sites that are based on
outdated development methods, but could work as well-- if not
better-- when based on standards. Doing this for a major site isn't
easy, of course, but by sharing the conversion efforts, they'd be
easier to accomplish. Sadly, I can't volunteer to be a coordinator
for such projects, as I'm already swamped. I simply wish to put the
idea in front of the list members to see what you all think.
Eric A. Meyer (eric@meyerweb.com) http://www.meyerweb.com/eric/
Author, "Cascading Style Sheets: The Definitive Guide,"
"Eric Meyer on CSS," "CSS 2.0 Programmer's Reference," and more
Eric,
Thank you very much for that.
Yes I think that many people could do. I hope you will have help for
this one. I think I remember to have seen a valid Yahoo! website on a
list one day.
I think it could be easily done for Yahoo!, Google, etc.
Karl Dubost / W3C - Conformance Manager
--- Be Strict To Be Cool! ---
It would certainly be interesting to do conversions, or partial conversions
on high profile sites, and if enough people were interested I may be able
to give some time to coordinate things. There are certainly some questions
in my mind about the best way to do it. If anyone else is interested, give
me a shout on or off list.
Andrew
Andrew McFarland
UNITE Solutions
1. Choice of high/well known websites
2. Traceability of the conversion (techniques used for it)
3. Authorization of the Web site owner? (often almost impossible,
because people do not reply to individual request for major websites,
another problem of Quality)
Karl Dubost / W3C - Conformance Manager
--- Be Strict To Be Cool! ---
IANAL, but wouldn't it be a copyright law violation to recreate (copy
and publish with modifications) a site without permission? To do a
decent job (in many aspects), you would need to use same images, same
text, same presentation style, which would require copying of
copyrighted things. Some say caching violates copyright law; the
activity being discussed is probably "worse" than caching from a legal
point of view.
As a workaround, you could start with high-profile "open source
friendly" sites like sourceforge.net or oreilly.com.
Alex.
HTTP performance - Web Polygraph benchmark
www.measurement-factory.com | HTTP compliance+ - Co-Advisor test suite
all of the above - PolyBox appliance
I don't think this is a problem in this case--Eric's effort is clearly
an academic one where the content is necessary to illustrate a
point. This falls under the category of fair use.
And 4. `Ownership' of the code. I wouldn't mind contributing to, say,
Dmoz.org[1] for free, but I wouldn't want to spend several tens (or
hundreds) of hours on a commercial website without some benefit to me. This
is obviously even more complex when you think about a group effort.
As an initial site, it might be interesting to build a (X)HTML (4.01|1)
Strict directory using the Dmoz.org RDF dump. Anyone any experience of
using Dmoz.org RDF data? Using Dmoz data would cover 3, and possibly 1.
/me toddles off to cpan.org
Andrew
Andrew McFarland
UNITE Solutions Phone 028 9077 7338
[1] The home page at least is Valid 4.01 Transitional
I will say that I didn't ask KPMG if I had permission to fix their
site, I just did it on the grounds that they obviously weren't about
to do it themselves. Then again, I picked a case where the site was
so badly broken in Gecko-based browsers that I figured they'd be
happy to have a fix offered to them. If I'm wrong, they'll probably
send me a cease-and-desist order, and which point I'll cease and
desist. And post about it.
In the first place, an effort of the kind I undertook isn't one of
tens or hundreds of hours. I invested less than three hours in
fixing the DOM scripting and tweaking a bit of HTML, and I'm not even
a DOM expert. Ironically, I didn't even touch their CSS. I imagine
someone familiar with the DOM and Javascript could have done what I
did in half the time, or less. So let's assume a full-on makeover of
the site would take 20 hours. Divide that up between four people and
you get maybe six hours per person, once accounting for overlapped
effort, which is inevitable in any team project. That's not an
unreasonable investment, in my opinion.
As for the benefit to you, it's derived from demonstrating that
standards support is more powerful and easier to accomplish than most
people seem to realize. It's also possible that you'd get some
benefit from having your name associated with such a project, or
series of projects. I'm more concerned with the benefit such efforts
would confer on the community as a whole, not to mention the users of
the sites that get fixed.
Eric A. Meyer (eric@meyerweb.com) http://www.meyerweb.com/eric/
Author, "Cascading Style Sheets: The Definitive Guide,"
"Eric Meyer on CSS," "CSS 2.0 Programmer's Reference," and more
I think the amount of time is very much dependant on how the site is
generated, and how much of the site needs fixed. A dynamically generated
site can be very easy to fix, or an absolute nightmare, depending on the
underlying programming.
I recently fixed up a small site, entirely static HTML, for one of our
clients. The markup was completely unstructured and it took me the best
part of a working week to get it to the stage where CSS could be applied
with consistency.
Were you thinking of individual page fixes or whole site corrections?
Don't worry, I wasn't being completely mercenary :-). I live an annoyingly
busy life at the moment, and whereas I would be happy to work on projects
for the good of the Internet as a whole, I am reluctant to spend a lot of
time fixing a commercial website for free. A few hours per week on
commercial websites would be OK.
Andrew
Andrew McFarland
UNITE Solutions Phone 028 9077 7338
