Hello dear Sirs!
Will you give me a permission to translate the following into Russian please:
1. "XML in 10 points" by Bert Bos
2. The entries with Russian names, middlenames and surnames
on various W3C pages containg information on translations
for me to maintain a page with Russian translations of W3C's documents.
3. "Design Guide" by Bert Bos
4. "W3C in 7 points"
Hmmm, or tell me if no permission's needed. Or if you won't let me translate these things.
Thank you.
Best regards,
Alexander "Croll" Savenkov (http://Croll.Da.Ru, TheCroll@Yahoo.Com)
Hello Alexander,
Sorry for the delay. I herewith grant permission to translate
"XML in 10 points" and "W3C in 7 points" according to the
rules in the Copyright FAQ
(http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/IPR-FAQ-20000620.html#translate),
with the following changes:
- Instead of using the term 'normative version', please use
'original version'. (these documents are not normative)
- Indicate the date of the original to which your translations
correspond, and say that the original may change (this is
necessary because the original documents don't have dated
URIs).
As for Bert's "Design Guide", I have copied Bert. Bert, what do you think?
Regards, Martin.
I found that this already exists at
but this gets served as text/plain, so that many browsers
just show the page source. (please see e.g.
W3C%2FXML%2F1999%2FXML-in-10-points).
Russian is readable in the source. But please change it
gives a 404 (which takes a long time because of all the
other information on that page). This is okay because there
is no requirement that an HTML page end in .html.
Regards, Martin.
Hello Alexander,
Sorry for never sending an answer to your message of two weeks ago. I
was on holiday at the time. However, I did make all the corrections
that you suggested. Thanks a lot for taking the time to send them.
Sure, you can translate it. I'll be honoured!
Please, let me know when it is finished, so I can make a link to it.
Or, if you wish, I can put it on our site.
Bert
Bert Bos ( W 3 C ) http://www.w3.org/
bert@w3.org 2004 Rt des Lucioles / BP 93
