I by accident renamed Amaya.exe in the Windows/bin to amaya1.exe one day and
I noticed that everything worked fine except that the menus were being
initialized off of en-amayamsg instead of en-amayadialogue and also that it
wasn't initialized amaya.profiles. Is there any reason for this weird
anomaly?
Curious,
John
Get Your Private, Free Email at http://www.hotmail.com
In-reply-to: Your message of Mon, 14 Feb 2000 04:50:57 -0500."
Hi John,
That's normal. The dialogue is managed by a genereric Thot toolkit which uses
the application name to connect the application to its dialogue file: the name
is $(lang)-$(appli)dialogue
When the application is named amaya it's looking for $(lang)-amayadialogue.
When
it's named amaya1, it's looking for $(lang)-amaya1dialogue.
The file $(lang)-amayamsg is an additional dialogue file also managed by the
Thot toolkit but its name is explicitly given by the application itself.
Irene.
In-reply-to: Your message of Mon, 14 Feb 2000 04:50:57 -0500."
Amaya builds some messages and configuration files names
according to its exe name. The problem is that this name is
supposed to be amaya and not amaya1. So if you change the
exe name of Amaya some problems may happen and this si a problem.
Ramzi.
655 Avenue de l'Europe | e-mail: Ramzi.Guetari@w3.org
38330 Montbonnot Saint Martin - France | http://www.w3.org
That's interesting that Amaya reads its own name and reads files in based on
that name. Is there some design issue related to this? Also, is this the
same case for amaya.profiles (is it read in like $(appName).profiles or just
hard coded because I noticed that it wasn't reading amaya.profiles when the
exe was amaya1.exe
Thanks,
John
Get Your Private, Free Email at http://www.hotmail.com
In our previous episode, John Logan said:
This is a legacy issue. The thotlib can be used by a number of applications.
Previously, many of the files that the thotlib opens were stored in the
same directory and we used the application name to distinguish between
those files. Later, on files that were opened only by amaya, we hardcoded
the "amaya" prefix.
We could try to harmonize the whole thing, for example by initializing the
application name with a given string or using the bin executable name
throughout. However, this doesn't seem to be a blocking issue so we'll let
it as it is until the next rainy afternoon (unless someone objects).
If someone wants to work on this, contributions are welcome :)
-Jose
