The Techniques teleconference is scheduled for Wednesday, 24 September from
14:00 to 15:30 UTC (16:00 to 17:30 Central Europe/10:00 to 11:30 U.S.
Eastern/7:00 to 8:30 U.S. Pacific).
The conference information is:
Passcode 92248
AGENDA
1. Use cases
Both Ben and Michael will be unable to attend this meeting, so we thought
the agenda item agreed on last week to discuss the techniques gateway would
be best postponed. This may therefore be a short meeting.
Michael Cooper
Accessibility Product Manager, Watchfire
1 Hines Rd, Kanata, ON K2K 3C7, Canada
Watchfire's spam filter often mistakes legitimate email for spam. If this
filter sends you a reply that an email to me was not delivered, please
inform me of the problem using alternate contact information provided above.
I do not consider your message spam and apologize for problems caused by
this filter.
Likely scenarios for using Gateway and Techniques doc for WCAG 2.0
I reproduce my earlier list with a few additions:
In a nutshell, users will want to navigate from the WCAG doc or the techniques doc to the
explanatory content for a checkpoint to gain a clearer understanding of the issues
involved.
The level of details sought will depend on their motivation level and keenness to implement
accessibility guidelines for their Web content.
1. Developers wanting to implement WCAG 2.0 or those testing for compliance
In all likelihood they will consider core checkpoints first and then regard extended
checkpoints.
This also includes those who want to selectively implement some extended checkpoints.
They should be able to conveniently identify Gateway and Techniques doc content relating to
core checkpoints and extended checkpoints.
2. Developers / managers debating on development methodologies might want to check out
techniques offered by one technology versus another technology for complying with specific
required success criteria / checkpoint
3. Someone who is concerned with accessibility of certain kind of content. For example:
- in some organizations, there are individual(s)dedicated to designing Web based forms.
- students in a course on Web accessibility who have been assigned to demonstrate the
accessibility of specifictypes of content.
As I suggested during the (Sept 17, 2003) conference, a section on how to make navigation
accessible, how to make tables accessible, how to make forms accessible,how to make a graph
accessible, what do I need to check if I am using frames / scripting / colors / multimedia
etc might be the segments along with the techniques might get accessed and not merely in
the order of the checkpoints / required success criteria.
4. An individual who has decided to follow a particular technology path will want to focus
on the specific techniques suggested for various checkpoints in the relevant technology doc
and not concern himself with other technology docs.
5. Those considering switching from one technology to another
- one who wants to switch to XML
- Consider one who uses Flash / some animation that is not accessible or is difficult to
make accessible and wants to use SVG/SMIL etc to present the content.
- One who is using PDF based fillable forms and wants to consider W3C technology so that it
integrates well with remaining Web content without requiring users to download/instal
plug-ins etc.
6. Those who are pursuing WCAG 1.0 and are now checking how WCAG 2 will affect them. They
mmight use the checkpoint matching document, WCAG 1 and WCAG 2 for comparison and navigate
to the gateway doc/techniques/WCAG1.0 to understand the differences.
7. Those concerned mainly with policy level issues will not delve into specific
technologies. They might prefer switching back and forth between the checkpoint and details
in the WCAG doc and the explanation in the Gateway doc.
Example:
- Individuals responsible for framing Web access standards / policies for their organization
/ state
- researchers
- for preparing edu and outreach related prese
Sailesh Panchang
Deque Systems, Reston VA Tel 703-225-0380 ext 105
Sailesh Panchang
To:
tcroucher@netalleynetworks.com
Hello Tom,
I understand your point that there are those who are willing to consider accessibility and those on whom it has been forced upon and this will affect
their motivation.
So grading someone for motivation levels, will become too subjective and am not sure how to deal with that.
Take a guy who is not motivated:
In the final analysis, if he needs to make a Web based form accessible, he need to dig into the techniques and understand exactly how it is done regardless
of how nuch he likes the task. So he may have to figure out how to associate labels and the title tag etc assuming he uses HTML whether he likes it or
not. So those who are developers may be keen on getting on with the job and get to the techniques and the nitty gritties. One with some motivation and
time will probably read the surrounding background info.
Block quote start
So I am adding a few more and strengthening a couple I had listed with examples.
So how would you like your content to be integrated with what I have written up? The two sets are quite different in style and presentaytion.
Hope to hear from you ... I'll fair up my stuff over the weekend.
Rightho,
Sailesh Panchang
Deque Systems, Reston VA Tel 703-225-0380 ext 105
