The cognitve environment needs to be represented but by whom. I do not see
how one person can push a concept without represenation. The cognitve
environment must be organized.
I too am growing weary of this thread, it is very disturbing. The more I read
the scarier it gets.
The people Rob refers to are recognized and organized. All are recognized and
organized by the ADA in the US.
An example;
Down's Syndrome is one of the most common congenital defects resulting in
profound to mild developmental delays.
That's one in every 600 births,
5,000 children are born with Downs in the US every year.
There are 250,000 Americans with Downs Syndrome.
Today, people with Down Syndrome live well into their 80's.
This is just Trisomy 21 - consider all the other possibilities!
As for Organizations; The Special Olympics, the Waisman Center and the Family
Village at the U of Wisconsin at Madison were founded by the Kennedy Family,
one of the children (Rose Kennedy - now an Adult) has Downs and lives in a
convent near Madison, WI.
See the list of URL's at the bottom of this post.
You must also consider PWD's may have more than one disability and it may be
from birth or injury or illness a combination of or from an occurrence later
in life.
I have more than one disability and my son does too. Within the next few
years I may have even more.
Has the WAI been testing it's "product" with the people who will be using it?
Have they identified who the end users are?
From this thread, obviously not.
I worked in OEM/Enginering and Design for nearly 20 years before I became
disabled.
Every *concept* was tested with the proposed end user before it was even
considered for development.
Then there were endless debates and several series of prototypes were made
before a concept was adopted.
99% went in the trash.
The WAI is a noble and IMO a wonderful achievement - but an entire section of
the population has been left out - perhaps forgotten or never considered?
This is why you must define disability. You need to know what you are working
towards.
Maybe it's just too hard.
Ciao
-LK
Some Links to DS websites and Orgs:
Web Sites With An Extra 21st
Web Sites For New Parents
Worth Investing In
Medical Sources On DS
DS Organizations Serving Countries
DS Organizations Serving States
DS Organizations Serving Counties/Cities
[source: " A HREF="http://www.geocities.com/~upanddown/" Being Into Down
Syndrome
/A ?" http://www.geocities.com/~upanddown/]
And there are thousands more DS Websites...........
Do these sites carry the Bobby Icon? Most do not because they know as much
about the WAI and Bobby as the WAI and Bobby know of them.
Except the WAI doesn't work that way; for the most part it
relies on the CONTRIBUTIONS of various sectors rather than on
active TESTING. For a voice to be heard here, they need to
speak up. As an example, my buddy Gregory Rosmaita (HI
GREGORY) is blind and participates in the WAI. Is he doing
such because he's part of a "test" project? Is he here as a
"representative of all blind people everywhere?" Not really,
he's here because he's Gregory and he's contributing his
insight like everyone else does.
Maybe you need to have some of those people who can assist
with the WAI's mission -- which is to improve the accessibility
of the web, chiefly through providing definitive reference
materials that content and program creators can use as
guidelines -- from that community come forward and join us.
You seem to know plenty of them -- and I don't -- so you would
seem to be the logical person to form some bridges. (I can't
reach out to people I don't know any more than they could
reach out to me!)
Kynn Bartlett mailto:kynn@hwg.org
President, HTML Writers Guild http://www.hwg.org/
AWARE Center Director http://aware.hwg.org/
Lovey:: "The WAI is a noble and IMO a wonderful achievement - but an
entire section of the population has been left out - perhaps forgotten
or never considered?"
WL: For some reason it keeps coming up that somebody is "left out" or
"overlooked" or in some way shorted by either the WAI or the guideline
process. Even after specifics from the guidelines are referenced. If
there is some general *definable* action that can be taken to make the
Web more accessible to people with, e.g. Down's Syndrome, then *bring it
on*, join in, make it known, but please don't ask people to figure out
what that might be and then imply that we're not caring, etc. I have not
yet heard anyone say how to put text into some other (graphical?) form
that would be doable and helpful but it keeps coming up. Just saying
"provide graphical alternatives" doesn't do anything unless we know what
those might be. Once more, with feeling, HOW COULD THIS EMAIL EXCHANGE
BE MADE NON_TEXTUAL? so that it would be accessible to or
understandable by non-readers? Anything that would make more routes of
access to the Web available is very important commercially, legally,
ethically, morally, spiritually, and pracitcally - but it's the how? of
it that is in the way: no *how*, no *if*. There is no action being
taken, not because of indifference, but because we don't know
SPECIFICALLY what to do.
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
William is making an important point here. The only reason that
we can tell people to make pages accessible to, for example,
blind people is that someone wrote down specific steps. We have
the WCAG to refer to, and before that we had various other
guidelines from Trace and elsewhere.
If you tell web designers "make your pages accessible!" most
of them will respond, and ask you "okay, how?" This is why we
need nearly 100 checkpoints spelled out in almost excrutiating
detail, with plenty of Techniques and examples.
Lacking that, people will just think we're blowing smoke and
will write us off. That's what we're seeing here, I think --
those of us who _don't_ have expertise in the subject would
like those of us who _do_ to step forward and present concrete
ideas. The substance of which could then be incorporated into
highly detailed, structured form of Guidelines, Checkpoints,
Techniques, and examples.
At the very least, we'd like to see a "before" picture of an
inaccessible page, and then an "after" picture that shows
exactly what changes were necessary (and why) to improve the
accessibility. In all this discussion, no concrete examples
such as that have been provided. Is it too much to ask?
Kynn Bartlett mailto:kynn@hwg.org
President, HTML Writers Guild http://www.hwg.org/
AWARE Center Director http://aware.hwg.org/
inaccessible page, and then an "after" picture that shows exactly what changes
were necessary (and why) to improve the accessibility. In all this
discussion, no concrete examples such as that have been provided. Is it too
much to ask?"
Well, it is a lot to ask today.
This is work that I have been hoping to get to for the past year but have yet
to get beyond the initial proposal writing stage. It is clearly not
indifference - just too many competing projects and interests. We want to
move beyond basic sensory and physical accessibility to the more difficult
cognitive issues but it is very hard work. Even textbook publishers and
educational software publishers have made only limited progress in this area
and they need to reach a very wide audience. I hope to be working on "Mr.
Chips" within the next six months or so. The work reaches beyond
accessibility to improved learning opportunities for the widest possible
audience.
Mr. Chips will provide a scaffold to support web page and site authors who
wish to create both accessible and educational internet based learning
experiences for children, teens and adults. Mr. Chips is essentially a
concept that encompasses a variety of critical steps leading to the
development of a tool that will enhance web-based learning. In the end, Mr.
Chips will be the tool, not the concept. Mr. Chips will move well beyond web
accessibility, currently assessed by Bobby, and help make the Web a better
place for learning. Mr. Chips will be a software program that assumes that
the web needs to be more than informational and will address:
1. purpose and level of the content and/or activities and abilities of the
intended audience (readability is just a first step here),
2. choice of pedagogy for intended purpose,
3. assumptions about the defined or expressed needs of the intended users,
4. that content is provided in multiple media for purposes of both
accessibility and differing learning styles,
5. nature and appropriateness of interactions with the content,
6. opportunity for expression,
7. engagement of the learner in activities appropriate to his or her
background and interests,
8. provisions for measurement of progress and self assessment, and,
9. critical layout and navigation barriers for learners with organizational
and physical challenges.
Of course this just scratches the surface and will involve many years of work
on standards and techniques. It will also require predictable methods for
serving appropriate meta-tagged objects from a database using XML and CSS so
that pages can be customized on the fly using information provided by user
profiles and previous interactions with the content. All this while
protecting privacy of course.
The work will be difficult and it is likely to take many years to convince
publishers and site authors to provide content suitable for meeting these
needs. Like most people, I have too much on my plate to start on this right
away but I would like to find out if others are interested in thinking about
this is a way that extends beyond basic access.
We will also need more controls built into browsers. I have been working with
a small team at CAST using the IE5 component and SAPI4 to develop a "talking
browser with synchronized highlighting" that we hope will handle the structure
of complex web pages. We are quite far along and hope to release a version
this summer to schools. It is already being used in two Federal Department of
Education research grants. It's for those with reading difficulties who need
to have the text highlighted as it is spoken.
We also have to build in some form of resistance so that learners will
continue to develop literacy skills and not use text-to-speech as a crutch
forever. Rather than have to build a shell around IE5, I would love to see
these controls built right into IE and Navigator. That me be too much to ask.
Nuff for now,
Chuck
Chuck Hitchcock, Director
Universal Design Lab (UDL)and
Product Development,
CAST, Inc.,
39 Cross Street, Peabody, MA 01960
Voice 978 531-8555
TTY 978 531-3110
Chuck,
Sounds like your Mr. Chips program is a good step in the right direction.
The needs of learners will be different from the needs of adults with
cognitive disabilities (e.g. it's OK for adults to use "crutches" as much
as they need to, if the "crutch" is helpful).
Chuck, I would be very interested in thinking (and working) towards the
development of Mr. Chips and other educationally-oriented software. Let me
know how I can help.
Anne
Anne L. Pemberton
apembert@crosslink.net
Enabling Support Foundation
read
and
There have been two serious proposals, both from David Poehlman: 1) include
guidelines that specify the inclusion of graphics as an aid to
accessibility, and 2) change the current status of the guideline for
"simple and understandable" text from "recommended" to "required". Either
would be a masterful start in the right direction.
What is the next step towards including the needs of graphically-dependent
into the next version of the WAI Guidelines draft?
Anne
Anne L. Pemberton
apembert@crosslink.net
Enabling Support Foundation
Neither of those, as simply stated as above, are anywhere near sufficient
for a web developer to actually *do* anything with them.
If proponents of such change here can't provide concrete examples of
"before" and "after" such guidelines, how can the average web developer be
expected to do it?
Examples MUST be provided.
Ann
Author of Effective Web Design: Master the Essentials
Buy it Online - http://www.webgeek.com/about.html
Coming this summer! --- Mastering XML
Founder, WebGeek Communications http://www.webgeek.com
Vice President-Finance, HTML Writers Guild http://www.hwg.org
Director, HWG Online Education http://www.hwg.org/classes
The issues raised in the QED and related threads will be discussed by the
GL working group. Please join us on that list and a teleconference call
next Thursday (3:00-4:00 p.m. EST - 617-252-1038) for further discussion.
thanks,
--wendy
wendy chisholm
human factors engineer
trace research and development center
university of wisconsin - madison, USA
Anybody remember "Microsoft Bob"? Did anyone here try and use the interface for addressing cognitive disabilities?
The most recent "news" I could find is almost two years old at URL:
inaccessible page, and then an "after" picture that shows exactly what changes
were necessary (and why) to improve the accessibility. In all this
discussion, no concrete examples such as that have been provided. Is it too
much to ask?"
Well, it is a lot to ask today.
This is work that I have been hoping to get to for the past year but have yet
to get beyond the initial proposal writing stage. It is clearly not
indifference - just too many competing projects and interests. We want to
move beyond basic sensory and physical accessibility to the more difficult
cognitive issues but it is very hard work. Even textbook publishers and
educational software publishers have made only limited progress in this area
and they need to reach a very wide audience. I hope to be working on "Mr.
Chips" within the next six months or so. The work reaches beyond
accessibility to improved learning opportunities for the widest possible
audience.
[Interesting content deleted.]
Wendy, Thanks. Next Thursday afternoon I will be traveling between Mathews
and Dinwiddie counties for an all-day orientation on Friday for summer
school. I will make an effort to be home and set up in time to join the
conference, traffic and other factors permitting. What will it cost to
participate in the conference (I am an individual; nobody else pays my
phone bills)? How do I join the list you mentioned?
Anne
Anne L. Pemberton
apembert@crosslink.net
Enabling Support Foundation
You realize, of course, that the conclusion is that improved
understanding for limited textual comprehension users is
therefore too much to ask from run-of-the-mill web users?
If we can't pull together a concensus among experts on this
topic, then there's no way the average Jo Webmaster on the
street will ever be able to get her mind around this issue...
Kynn Bartlett mailto:kynn@hwg.org
President, HTML Writers Guild http://www.hwg.org/
AWARE Center Director http://aware.hwg.org/
