Thanks for having subscribed to this new group! As this group's chair,
I'd like to welcome all participants and give a short overview of the
goals of this mailing list.
The charter (http://www.w3.org/2003/10/swsig-charter) offers a widely
open range of topics, between Web Services and Semantic Web:
[The purpose of the Semantic Web Services Interest Group is to provide
an open forum for W3C Members and non-Members to discuss Web Services
topics essentially oriented towards integration of Semantic Web technol
ogy
into the ongoing Web Services work at W3C. In particular, it is a forum
for everyone interested in investigating future ways of using Web
Services with Semantics.]
This Group is likely to become a brige between the two Activities at W3C,
but first it will be what you make it.
A web page has been started (http://www.w3.org/2002/ws/swsig/) and
will hopefully grow thanks to your suggestions. Conference announcements,
reviews, papers, etc. could be linked from this page.
Feel free to introduce yourself and explain what are your expectations
from this forum, the projects you have in mind and any other relevant
informations!
Carine Bournez, SWSIG chair
W3C - ERCIM
Hello, my interests are in task and activity support on the web, especially
for collaborative systems involving people working together as well as
using automated services in their work. My background is in AI planning
and I am a fellow of the Workflow Management Coalition. I have been
involved in process representation standards such as PIF, NIST PSL, SPAR,
WPDL, etc. and I am now a member of the Semantic Web Services Initiative
Language Committee (SWSL).
Prof. Austin Tate, Artificial Intelligence Applications Institute, Informatics,
University of Edinburgh, Appleton Tower, Crichton Street, Edinburgh EH8 9LE, UK
Hello, I specialise in the application of semantic web technologies to
grid computing, i.e. "semantic grid" (see www.semanticgrid.org) This
means applying semantic web both *on* the grid (i.e. in grid applications)
but also *in* the grid, i.e. in the grid middleware. Since grid computing
is increasingly service-oriented, many semantic grid projects are already
exercising the available semantic web machinery for description, discovery
and composition of web services. I'm a W3C AC rep and was an "alternate"
on Webont, and I chair the Semantic Grid Research Group in the Global Grid
Forum. I'm also responsible for some pervasive computing research, which
again involves service description, discovery and composition - plus some
rather different ontologies and a bunch of engineering issues to do with
working in real time.
Regards
-- Dave
Prof David De Roure phone +44 (0)23 8059 2418
School of Electronics and Computer Science
University of Southampton email dder@ecs.soton.ac.uk
Southampton, SO17 1BJ, UK http://www.soton.ac.uk/~dder/
Howdy - I'm a Professor at the Univ of Maryland where I head up the
Maryland Information and Network Dynamics Laboratory's Semantic Web
actiivites (the MINDSWAP project). Our group has a long association
w/both semantic web (even before it was called that) and web
services, and have been members of various SW and WS groups in the
W3C. MINDSWAP currently includes the chair of the Web Ont WG, and
participants in the Web Sevices Description WG, the WS Choreography
WG, the OWL-S group, and the SWSI group. We're quite interested in
the dynamic composition (choreography) of Web Services, and believe
Semantics are an important aspect of making it work. We also are
involved with a group from Fujitsu Labs of America in demoing the use
of semantics in composing Web Services. Various and sundry about
the group can be found on http://owl.mindswap.org -- a web site
completely powered by RDF/OWL and supporting various services
described in OWL-S.
-JH
Professor James Hendler hendler@cs.umd.edu
Director, Semantic Web and Agent Technologies 301-405-2696
Univ of Maryland, College Park, MD 20742 *** 240-277-3388 (Cell)
Hi,
I am a Senior Researcher at Fujitsu Laboratories of America (FLA),
College Park, Maryland. My current research interest is the intersection
of Pervasive Computing and the Semantic Web. In the "Task Computing"
project, a joint project with the MINDSWAP group of the University of Maryland,
we try to enable ordinary users to do complex things easily
in device and service-rich environments. The semantics, especially those
of services, play a central role in bringing the users, devices and services
together in our project. (OWL and OWL-S are the linchpins of our Task
Computing system.) I hope I can contribute to this community from a
practical/user's point of view.
Regards,
Ryu
Ryusuke Masuoka, Ph.D.
Senior Researcher
Fujitsu Laboratories of America, Inc.
8400 Baltimore Avenue, Suite 302
College Park, MD 20740-2496, U.S.A.
Cell: +1-301-237-3309
URL: http://www.flacp.fujitsulabs.com/~rmasuoka
(Try to access my page from IPv6 world)
Latitude: N 38.9935
Longitude: W 76.9330
Greetings
I'm Geoff Arnold, of Sun Microsystems. Until recently I worked in
Sun Microsystems Laboratories; I've just shifted over into the
office of the Chief Engineer. For several years I was involved
in multiagent systems research in SunLabs, and was Sun's
representative to (and board member of) FIPA, the Foundation
for Intelligent Physical Agents. During 2000-2002, a number of FIPA
members were involved in work on standards for the software
infrastructure for multiagent systems. As this work progressed,
a number of us realized that the most promising way of exploiting
the work in multiagent systems might be to marry it to the emerging
web services movement. Accordingly, a number of us proposed
the establishment of a "semantic web services" interest group
within W3C. Our intent was to create a forum which would
accomodate a variety of groups, including the DARPA agents community,
the
multiagent research community, and those working on the application
of web services technology to applications using autonomous agents
patterns.
More recently I have been Sun's alternate representative
to the W3C Web Services Architecture working group.
My primary interest within SWS-IG is the software engineering
problems associated with the creation of agents that are capable
of semantically rich interoperation. When we worked in FIPA
on agent communications language (ACL) and the FIPA abstract
architecture (AA), it became apparent that the biggest obstacle
to progress in interoperation was the lack of shared, open source
software systems for implementing the BDI semantics of ACL. We had
several sophisticated implementations of the "plumbing" (agent
communications, advertisement, brokerage, and so forth). What we
lacked were the tools to develop and gain practical expertise
with multiagent applications, and this (from my perspective)
made it impossible to really evaluate the utility of much of
the theoretical work on agent communications. I want to encourage
the adaptation of software tools for reasoning and planning to
support semantically rich web services interactions.
Geoff
