WAI Site Task Force of EOWG (WSTF) Meeting Agenda for 29 March 2004
Time:6:00pm-8:00pm US Eastern Time / 22:00-24:00 UTC
Bridge:+1.617.761.6200,
conference code 9783# (WSTF#)
IRC:channel: #wstf
server: irc.w3.org
port: 6665
Readings:
- closed card sort data, to be sent to list by Carol
- updated &amp; new design information, particularly new WG section at:
Agenda:
1. Confirm input to draft AIR usability testing written report
2. Discuss information architecture
- impact of closed card sort (see data to be sent to list by
Carol)
3. Discuss site-wide navigation
- particularly Blossom's thoughts on documents &amp; Michael's idea
for expanding nav
4. Updates to design summary
- updates from last teleconference (indicated as "DONE" in last
action item e-mail)
- new section on working group home pages
5. Plan next steps and milestones
Teleconference information:
- W3C Zakim Teleconference Bridge instructions:
- Zakim IRC Bot information: http://www.w3.org/2001/12/zakim-irc-bot
- A source for help with IRC (Internet Relay Chat):
Regrets yet again - I'll be in Canberra running a "web and online
accessibility" workshop
See www.visionaustralia.org.au/webaccessibility/workshops/
And the following week (before Easter) is also likely to be out due to a
workshop in Sydney the following day (taking advantage of the travel to
visit clients the previous day). Depends what time I travel.
Sooorrry, Andrew
Dr Andrew Arch
Manager Online Accessibility Consulting
National Information &amp; Library Service, Australia
Member, Education &amp; Outreach Working Group,
W3C Web Accessibility Initiative
NILS - A Joint Venture between the
Royal Victorian Institute for the Blind, The Royal Blind Society of NSW,
and Vision Australia Foundation.
"Shawn Lawton Henry"
Sent by: cc:
public-wai-eo-site-req Subject: WSTF agenda for 29 March 2004
uest@w3.org
27/03/2004 08:05 AM
WAI Site Task Force of EOWG (WSTF) Meeting Agenda for 29 March 2004
Time: 6:00pm-8:00pm US Eastern Time / 22:00-24:00 UTC
Bridge: +1.617.761.6200,
conference code 9783# (WSTF#)
IRC: channel: #wstf
server: irc.w3.org
port: 6665
Readings:
- closed card sort data, to be sent to list by Carol
- updated &amp; new design information, particularly new WG section at:
Agenda:
1. Confirm input to draft AIR usability testing written report
2. Discuss information architecture
- impact of closed card sort (see data to be sent to list by
Carol)
3. Discuss site-wide navigation
- particularly Blossom's thoughts on documents &amp; Michael's
idea
for expanding nav
4. Updates to design summary
- updates from last teleconference (indicated as "DONE" in
last
action item e-mail)
- new section on working group home pages
5. Plan next steps and milestones
Teleconference information:
- W3C Zakim Teleconference Bridge instructions:
- Zakim IRC Bot information: http://www.w3.org/2001/12/zakim-irc-bot
- A source for help with IRC (Internet Relay Chat):
Here are the Closed Card Sort Results - my apologies for not getting these
out sooner - rough week. It also took much longer than I expected to go
through the results due to all of the anomalies. I tried doing a more
complex analysis, and got very unclear results, so I went back to doing it
the old fashioned way. I'm posting the actual spreadsheets on my website if
you want the gritty details - url forthcoming.
If you have any questions or suggestions for further analysis please contact
me.
Carol J. Smith
Kognitive Consulting, Inc.
Chicago, IL, USA
Cell: 773-218-6568
carol@kognitive.com
WAI Web Site Task Force
Closed Card Sort Results
Participants Overview
Female: 6 Male: 3
Known Member of W3C: 3
Other factors: 1 Non-native English Speaker
1 known sight-related disability
3 Participants known non-US citizens
Pre-Test Questionnaire Results:
? Occupations:
o Researcher, Consultant
o Section 508 Coordinator
o Director Assistive Technology
o Computer Access Specialist
o Webmaster
o Information Specialist at ADA Center
o Sect 508 Tech Policy Analyst/Web Developer
o Info Tech Prof - Web Accessibility Trainer
o Web Developer
? 7 out of 9 have Developed a Web page
? All Participants are Familiar with a set of Web Accessibility
Guidelines
? Participants Visits to the WAI Site in the past 3 months:
Once: 4 Once a month: 2
None: 1 Once a week: 2
General Results
See the Summary by Category Worksheet in the Excel Spreadsheet for general
overview.
Overall many cards were consistently placed by over 50% (5) of the
participants. Here are those cards in the Category in which they were
placed:
About WAI
? About WAI
? Participating in WAI
? WAI Contacts
? WAI Sponsorship
Getting Started
? Getting Started: Making a Web Site Accessible
WAI Groups
? Authoring Tools Accessibility Guidelines Working Group (ATWG)
? Education and Outreach Working Group (EOWG)
? Education and Outreach Working Group Email List Archives (EOWG)
? User Agent Accessibility Guidelines Working Group (UAWG)
? User Agent Accessibility Guidelines Working Group charter (UAWG)
? User Agent Accessibility Guidelines Working Group Email List
Archives (UAWG)
? WAI Interest Group
? WAI Interest Group Charter
? WAI Interest Group Email List Archives
? Web Content Accessibility Guidelines Working Group (WCWG)
? Web Content Accessibility Guidelines Working Group Charter (WCAG)
? Web Content Accessibility Guidelines Working Group Email List
Archives (WCAG)
Guidelines and Techniques
? Authoring Tool Accessibility Guidelines 1.0 (ATAG)
? Checklist for Authoring Tool Accessibility Guidelines 1.0 (ATAG)
? Checklist for Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 1.0 (WCAG)
? Checkpoints for User Agent Accessibility Guidelines 1.0 (UAAG)
? Logos for Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG)
? Techniques for Accessibility Evaluation and Repair
? Techniques for Authoring Tool Accessibility Guidelines 1.0 (ATAG)
? Techniques for User Agent Accessibility Guidelines 1.0 (UAAG)
? Techniques for Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 1.0 (WCAG)
? Translations of Authoring Tool Accessibility Guidelines (ATAG)
? Translations of Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG)
? User Agent Accessibility Guidelines 1.0 (UAAG)
? Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 1.0 (WCAG)
? XML Accessibility Guidelines
Resources
? Accessibility Features of Cascading Style Sheets (CSS)
? Accessibility Improvements in HTML 4.0
? Alternative Web browsing
? Developing Organizational Policies on Web Accessibility
? Gallery of Accessible Sites
? General links on Web Accessibility
? Logos for Authoring Tool Accessibility Guidelines (ATAG)
? Policies relating to Web Accessibility
? Quick Tips
? Selecting and Using Authoring Tools for Web Accessibility
Events and Meetings
? Calendar of Conferences
? WAI Events
Groupings
Three participants spent the time to sort their cards into sub-groups.
Those results are in the Groupings Worksheet of the Excel Spreadsheet.
Comments and Anomalies by Participant
Multiple Participants added and removed categories, made comments during the
Closed Card Sort or there were issues with the sorting. Comments were
recorded by facilitators.
? A common theme is the combining of Guidelines and Techniques and
Resources - we may possibly want to revisit this as an issue.
? The renaming of Getting Started was discussed in the WSTF Face to
Face meeting at CSUN and it was tentatively decided that it would be renamed
Intro to Web Accessibility.
Participant #1: Put Guidelines and Techniques into the Resources Category.
Card #54 (Web Content Accessibility Guidelines Working Group (WCWG) was not
recorded. Facilitator comments: "This participant is very familiar with W3C
and that may have influenced her organization.
Participant #2: Wanted to be sure to note that "WAI Resources" could also go
under the Resources category (participant placed it in the About WAI
section).
Also that General FAQ's should be in each section, as should guidelines and
techniques, etc. She said it should be broken down by section.
Participant #3: Removed Getting Started (commented that she "hates that
section"). In later discussion she said that she did not like the wording
of "Getting Started" because it was unclear. She did like the idea of
instead using "Introduction to Web Accessibility" or something similar
however. Participant first completely excluded the Archives of Email, then
put into groups with other group related cards. She felt archives belonged
somewhere else. Card #36 (Techniques for Authoring Tool Accessibility
Guidelines 1.0 (ATAG)) was not recorded.
Participant #4: Removed the About WAI category. Added Working Groups
category. Put a general overview "Why Good" with a basic overview telling
how and FAQ's. Guidelines and Techniques he recommended Combining totally
or adding a section with all the overlaps and just separating the
differences (as in all that are similar). He would then put Working Groups
into Resources. When coming to the WAI site he would want to know: "Who can
I talk to?", "Who's done it?", "New Groups" and various other topics.
Participant #5: All other cards subheading for home page (links). Not sure
what "Getting Started" means - newbies? All UAAG stuff together. Also
Guidelines and Techniques. The more ways to get somewhere the better -
cross linking. WAI Glossary placement is content dependent. WAI
definitions? Resources? Terms for Guideline and Techniques? Saw these cards
as being a bridge between Getting Started and Techniques. Organization,
structure, policy - bridge between policies/newbies and Tech, policy vs.
tech. Post-it note comments: right now on WAI pages - likes navigation on
left because scroll bar is there (tech person). Would put WAI Contacts on
WAI Groups in addition to WAI Contacts Category
Participant #6: Added new category of "Education Training Outreach
Work-Sheeting kinda stuff" - she stated this was "Inter-mediary category
between Getting Started and Techniques." Comment on Resources Title:
"Confusing Category Usually Means links to outside info." Comments on
General links on Web Accessibility card: "Why do you need this card? Where
is this going to take me? Makes me think too much. What are the general
links - where will it take me that all the other's hasn't already taken me.
Suggest pitch" Card #8 (Checklist for Authoring Tool Accessibility
Guidelines 1.0 (ATAG)) was not recorded.
Participant #7: Facilitator comment: "This person appears to have sorted
somewhat by their awareness of the organization." WCAG Member. Card #35
(Techniques for Accessibility Evaluation and Repair) was not recorded.
Participant #8: Combined Guidelines and Resources and Techniques into one
section called Guidelines, Resources and Techniques. Facilitator comments:
"I think we should take special note of Participant's home page comments,
particularly since she knows what it takes to teach people about web
accessibility." Participants' Proposed order of Categories: Home Page;
About WAI; Getting Started, Guidelines Resources and Techniques; Events and
Meetings; WAI Groups.
Participant #9: Added FAQ's or FAQ's and Glossary Category. Should have
links to more specific FAQ's. Participant comments: What is "Resources?
Logos - Could go in either Resources or Guidelines and Technique. Re: WAI
Sponsorship - Who's Sponsoring Who? Placement of Policies relating to Web
Acc., Planning a Web Acc. Training, and Implementation Plan for Web Acc.
Have to have a policy, then training and implementation. Getting Started -
Maybe should be named something else. Re: Developing Org. Policies,
Implementation Plan, and Policies Relating to Web Acc. Either three
"sub-categories" of Getting Started, or place all of them in Getting
Started. Presenting the Case for Acc. And why Web Acc. Are maybe the same
thing;
or Presenting the Case and Alternative Browsing are subsets of Why Web Acc.
Alternative Browsing is specific, also parallel to How People Use the Web
Standards Harmonization should be either on Home Page or Guidelines and
Techniques. More technical; need to know technologies; then can think
about standards. Facilitator comments: "Card Sorting was very thorough - he
placed almost all the cards deliberated over the ones he wasn't sure about
and then checked all his piles re-categorizing a few cards." Card 57 was
not categorized by participant (Why Standards Harmonization).
Regrets. Cannot attend meetings.
Sailesh
WAI Site Task Force of EOWG (WSTF) Meeting Agenda for 29 March 2004
Time: 6:00pm-8:00pm US Eastern Time / 22:00-24:00 UTC
Bridge: +1.617.761.6200,
conference code 9783# (WSTF#)
IRC: channel: #wstf
server: irc.w3.org
port: 6665
Readings:
- closed card sort data, to be sent to list by Carol
- updated &amp; new design information, particularly new WG section at:
Agenda:
1. Confirm input to draft AIR usability testing written report
2. Discuss information architecture
- impact of closed card sort (see data to be sent to list by
Carol)
3. Discuss site-wide navigation
- particularly Blossom's thoughts on documents &amp; Michael's idea
for expanding nav
4. Updates to design summary
- updates from last teleconference (indicated as "DONE" in last
action item e-mail)
- new section on working group home pages
5. Plan next steps and milestones
Teleconference information:
- W3C Zakim Teleconference Bridge instructions:
- Zakim IRC Bot information: http://www.w3.org/2001/12/zakim-irc-bot
- A source for help with IRC (Internet Relay Chat):
