Hi,
The issue of limitis is tricky. I also believe that achievability plays
a role too. For example, can Mount Everest be considered accessible?
If a significant amount of the US fiscal resources were made available,
Mount Everest could probably be made accessible.
As near as I can tell, there really hasn't been much research into what
aspects of a web page can increase the amount of time needed for blind
subjects to use web pages. Some improvements might actually be quite easy.
Scott
By taking an ad absurdum example it's easy to show that time is an
accessibility issue - would you consider a wheelchair user travelling 20
miles under his or her own steam to be an equally accessible form of
transportation to a wheelchair-enabled bus?
One of the problems with time (and also effort, concentration, and other
requirements that can increase when one is making use of an accessibility
feature), is that it is hard to measure in a way that will be valid for all
users, and hard to decide on clear limits for (how slow does something have
to be before it really affects accessibility?). This is unsatisfying for
those of us who attempt to come up with solutions, mainly technical, to
these problems.
well a visually impaired guy and an amputee have climbed it
Bob
ASCII Ribbon Campaign accessBob
NO HTML/PDF/RTF in e-mail accessys@smartnospam.net
NO MSWord docs in e-mail Access Systems, engineers
NO attachments in e-mail, *LINUX powered* access is a civil right
THIS message and any attachments are CONFIDENTIAL and may be
privileged. They are intended ONLY for the individual or entity named
above. If you are not the intended recipient, Please notify the sender as
soon as possible. Please DO NOT READ, COPY, USE, or DISCLOSE this
communication to others and DELETE it from your computer systems. Thanks
so what are gw micro and freedomscientific and dolfin and others doing
spinning their wheels then? Why is it that our capability grows with
each new release? This is not a blind thing.
accessibility by phone
Hi,
The issue of limitis is tricky. I also believe that achievability plays
a role too. For example, can Mount Everest be considered accessible?
If a significant amount of the US fiscal resources were made available,
Mount Everest could probably be made accessible.
As near as I can tell, there really hasn't been much research into what
aspects of a web page can increase the amount of time needed for blind
subjects to use web pages. Some improvements might actually be quite
easy.
Scott
By taking an ad absurdum example it's easy to show that time is an
accessibility issue - would you consider a wheelchair user travelling
20
miles under his or her own steam to be an equally accessible form of
transportation to a wheelchair-enabled bus?
One of the problems with time (and also effort, concentration, and
other
requirements that can increase when one is making use of an
accessibility
feature), is that it is hard to measure in a way that will be valid
for all
users, and hard to decide on clear limits for (how slow does something
have
to be before it really affects accessibility?). This is unsatisfying
for
those of us who attempt to come up with solutions, mainly technical,
to
these problems.
