Change to:
If clients cache the results of name lookups for performance reasons,
they are strongly encouraged to get and observe the TTL (Time To
Live) information reported by the name server. If this is not
feasible, clients must not cache the results of name lookups for
longer than 10 minutes, and must immediately discard a name lookup
result if a network error occurs when using the result to initiate a
connection.
I have some additional ideas. Danzig., et.al (SIGCOMM92 ??) shows that
NEGATIVE caching DNS will help to reduce DNS traffic quite a bit.
Negative cache means when DNS lookup fail (may be after 2-3 trails) for
that particular host, we should cache the result (the failure) for a short
time to avoid subsequent look up (which likely to fail again). Say 2 minutes.
Anawat
While this is a useful suggestion, it doesn't fall in the domain of being
a security issue. It might be considered for an HTTP implementation
recommendations document.
Dave Morris
Ted Hardie redrafted my words on DNS. I like his wording better than
mine. I added a reference to DNSSEC, which should be issued later
this month.
Koen Holtman and Dave Morris have expressed concerns about the
requirement being mandantory (Must vs. should), and proposed an
alternate based on a arbitrary timeout (with no defense as to how
that timeout might be chosen), believing that the implementation
is difficult.. Personally, I believe this
requirement not too hard to implement (given the discussion,
and the claim of Phil Hallam-Baker that he's implementing it.),
and believe the requirement should be "must".
However, I've not head much from those in support of the requirement.
(which is how the draft read, afterall; to first order, silence
was taken as agreement).
If you believe this requirement should be a "must" please send
me mail (privately, so we don't get a flurry of messages on the list).
If you believe it should be a "should", then please also send me mail.
If should, please also indicate how you would resolve the timeout
issue which results if the recommendation is not mandantory.
- Jim Gettys
Section 14 (new subsection to Security Considerations):
DNS Spoofing
Clients using HTTP rely heavily on the Domain Name Service, and are
thus generally prone to security attacks based on the deliberate
mis-association of IP addresses and DNS names. The deployment of
|DNSSEC[DNSSEC] should help this situation. In advance of this deployment,
however, clients need to be cautious in assuming the continuing
validity of an IP number/DNS name association.
In particular, HTTP clients should rely on their name resolver for
confirmation of an IP number/DNS name association, rather than caching
the result of previous host name lookups. Many platforms already can
cache host name lookups locally when appropriate, and they should be
configured to do so. These lookups should be cached, however, only
when the TTL (Time To Live) information reported by the name server
makes it likely that the cached information will remain useful.
If HTTP clients cache the results of a host name lookups in order to
achieve a performance improvement, they MUST observe the TTL
information reported by the name server
If HTTP clients do not observe this rule, they could be spoofed when a
previously-accessed server's IP address changes. As renumbering is
expected to become increasingly common [RFC 1900], the possibility of
this form of attack will grow. Observing this requirement thus
reduces this potential security vulnerability.
This requirement also improves the load-balancing behavior of clients
for replicated servers using the same DNS name and reduces the
likelihood of a user's experiencing failure in accessing sites which
use that strategy.
Addition to 16. References:
[dnssec]Whatever is appropriate; it is up for a vote at the IESG this
month, and may be issued as an RFC in time.
[RFC 1900]
B. Carpenter, Y. Rekhter,
Renumbering Needs Work /a . RFC 1900, IAB, February 1996.
You are not supposed to do negative caching with a time larger than the
zone SOA MINIMUM field. See section 4.3.4 of RFC 1034.
Donald
Date: Sun, 31 Mar 1996 18:43:00 -0800 (PST)
From: David W. Morris dwm@shell.portal.com
Subject: Re: (DNS) consensus wording
Donald E. Eastlake 3rd +1 508-287-4877(tel) dee@cybercash.com
Carlisle, MA 01741 USA +1 703-620-4200(main office, Reston, VA)
% From dwm@shell.portal.com Mon Apr 1 18:04:05 1996
% It is my understanding that MUST and SHOULD are defined terms and
% strongly encouraged is not as far as RFCs are concerned. Thus, I
% offer the following editorial alternative to Koen's suggestion (which
% I endorse):
% If a client caches the result of a DNS lookups, it should observe the
% TTL (Time To Live) reported by the DNS server. If the TTL value is
% not available, the client must not cache the result of a DNS lookup
% for longer than XX minutes. In either case, the client must immediately
% discard a name lookup result if a network error occurs when using the
% result to initiate a connection.
% Rationale for other changes:
% 1. I believe this paragraph is about DNS name lookups and should be
% specific
% 2. We don't care what the motivation is for the caching
% 3. I'm not sure that 10 minutes is the right number ... my IPSs tell me
% that 24 hours must be allowed for DNS change propigation. Given
% rational expectation for rate of change of the value, I would prefer
% a larger number ... or if we have a DNS expert, perhaps there is
% a DNS defined default TTL for cases where not is specified.
% I can live with the 10 minutes but it was a detail which I felt should
% surface for expert comment.
RFC 1034 does not say anything about intended time of propagation -
it rather specifies that "if a change can be anticipated, the TTL can be
reduced prior to the change", and it can even be set up to 0, meaning that
it must not be cached. Of course this should be done only in
particular cases (prior to a major change), but I think it is
exploited by multi-IP servers to share workload (IMO a bad move - a TTL
of 10 minutes would have been ok)
My own understanding of TTL is that *every* request has a TTL - if not
explicitly, it is set up from the MINIMUM field in the Zone Authority data.
If DNS lookup is considered a threat for the Net, I would suggest to set
the maximum caching at 30 minutes - I am not sure if is a Good Thing,
however. I'd rely to DNS data.
.mau.
