The spec should say that workspaces cannot 'overlap', i.e., a workspace
cannot be a member of another workspace, and bindings cannot be made
outside the workspace. Having multiple workpace 'parents' would confuse
many things, including current activity, and make workspace semantics for
single history selectors very time consuming to enforce.
Tim
Simply that you shouldn't be allowed to create an overlap by binding a
member of one workspace to a member of another workspace, or create a
binding from a member of a workspace to, say, a parent of the workspace
since the workspace would become a member of itself.
However, since the delta-v spec cannot refer to the binding spec ("other
than as work in progress") it should be sufficient to say that workspaces
cannot be nested, and leave other binding issues for that work group g
Tim
Ross Wetmore rwetmore@verticalsky.com on 2000-11-10 02:24:58 PM
Please respond to Ross Wetmore rwetmore@verticalsky.com
Subject: Re: workspaces
... bindings cannot be made outside the workspace.
Can you clarify what is meant by the above? Bindings to/from what for
instance?
Cheers,
RossW
It is still not clear to me precisely what you are excluding. I agree
there are some specific scenarios such as a workspace including itself
that probably should be excluded. I would like to see this pinned down
clearly though and not a vague or general precept applied on the basis
of a corner case without careful consideration.
I see no difficulty with workspace members being in more than one
workspace and no reason to exclude this with a generic rule at the
moment. This is not quite the terminology you used which means perhaps
such definitions need to be elaborated a little more clearly, or the
underlying rationale spelled out.
I don't currently see any fundamental difficulty with nesting
workspaces, and would like the issues clarified before such flattening
becomes mandatory. This is a fairly significant restriction.
I agree it is reasonable to leave the mechanics of sharing to a binding
spec, as long as the delta-v spec treats such issues as orthogonal.
Cheers,
RossW
