Hi,
This morning I was meeting with technology people at a bank about some
technology access issues. One topic which came up was about the
trend towards personalized web pages for customers like at MyYahoo, etc.
One of the questions was how to make it easy to use by blind people.
I basically said that there are different views of the issues. Some
blind people want to use the same web pages as sighted people even if they
are harder to use. Other blind people prefer that web pages
be easy to use. (As one blind user quipped "I'm willing to show the
world one day a month that I can use the same web pages as sighted
if I can have the rest of the month to take the easy route". )
Now, if a bank can generate the personalized web pages in different
languages to make it more convenient for the customer, why shouldn't the bank
also generate the personalized web pages to be as easy to use as possible
by blind users? If the personalized web pages for blind users are designed
to be as easy to use by as wide a range of blind customers as possible,
that would mean that blind users with less cognitive skill or access
technology acumen would also have their needs addressed. From a business
perspective, doesn't it make sense to include as many customer needs as
possible in the design? As one bank person asked, how many customers
would reject a service because it is too simple to use?
Scott
aloha, scott!
i, too, have been investigating online banking myself recently, and the
problems aren't presentational -- they are structural -- including (but not
limited to) the misuse of structural elements to achieve presentational
effects; the failure to provide textual equivalents for multimedia objects (in
particular, failure to provide ALT text for graphically defined links, or for
the AREAs defined for image maps); the use of style to convey meaning (i.e.
changes in font color on forms to indicate required fields); etc.
therefore, i think you mis-characterize the issue when you write:
quote
One of the questions was how to make it easy to use by blind people.
I basically said that there are different views of the issues. Some
blind people want to use the same web pages as sighted people even if they
are harder to use. Other blind people prefer that web pages
be easy to use. (As one blind user quipped "I'm willing to show the
world one day a month that I can use the same web pages as sighted
if I can have the rest of the month to take the easy route". )
unquote
the issue isn't as simple as you portrayed it -- the goal (my goal at least) is
to have page authors concerned first and foremost with structure and content,
so as to achieve a universally accessible and interoperable underlying
structure for the document with which individual users can then interact
according to their own preferences, as expressed either by the author's
stylesheet or by a custom (local) stylesheet...
it's not a question of wanting quote to use the same web pages as sighted
people even if they are harder to use unquote, but, rather, of ensuring that
the structure and content is uniform and completely expressed, no matter the
modality of whatever style is overlaid the structure and content...
the point is -- give me equal access to all of the content you wish to provide
a generic visitor, in a consistent and well structured format, and leave the
stylistic presentation to stylesheets, period
gregory
He that lives on Hope, dies farting
-- Benjamin Franklin, Poor Richard's Almanack, 1763
Gregory J. Rosmaita unagi69@concentric.net
WebMaster and Minister of Propaganda, VICUG NYC
Hi, Gregory
Have you had a chance to look at the demo web pages I've put up? They are
actually good examples of the difference between structuring a web page
on the basis of the semantic or concepts being conveyed by the page
versus structuring a web page for visual interest or impact.
The point you might have missed in my comments was that focus of the
conversation was on web pages personalized for each customer.
Personalized web pages is applying the technology of dynamically
generated web pages to create web pages specialized for the particular
user requesting the page. This might include languages, layout, colors,
stock quotes, news articles, etc. The online banking is old technology
compared to what is now being cooked up.
Something, I'm not quite sure I'm conveying very well is that style
sheets will NOT support transformation of web pages on the basis of
semantic content. They only support transformation on structure. Web
pages organized according to semantic aspects is a better design for
blind users. In order to evaluate this, it is important to understand
the difference between organization according to visual impact and
organization according to semantic aspects. (Also, remember that in
general once information is translated into HTML, the semantic
relationships are lost to most software reading the HTML as explained by
Tim Berners-Lee).
Just to be clear ... your note mentioned a generic user . What was
talked about is that there would be NO generic user. Each web page
is specialized in content, format, language, etc to each individual
user.
Scott
aloha, scott!
again, i must apologize for not having checked out your demo pages, due to an
utter lack of opportunity... please rest assured that it is at the very top of
my list of things to do online!
my point is simply this: if you provide structure, into which personalized
content is dropped -- either via a template driven database-based program such
as ColdFusion or via XML in combination with RDF -- there is no quote
tailorization for the blind unquote necessary -- merely tailorization for the
individual (who in this case, just happens to be blind)...
there is an old saying that a blind man's poison is another man's food -- a saw
which, having had a wealth of experience working with individuals with widely
varying visual acuity -- i would amend to one blind person's panacea is
another's poison...
tailor content for individuals, and let them take it from there, but do not
tailor the presentation of that content solely on the basis of their perceived
disability... i, having been fully sighted for my first twenty years, process
information in a vastly different manner than someone who has never had any
usable vision... my inability to read braille due to neuropathy in my
fingertips, also has had a profound effect on how i process information... so,
although i operate in a non-visual modality, my experience of that modality is
vastly different from jason white's or dave poehlman's or janina sajka's, to
name but 3 blind users who immediately spring to mind...
i want information tailored to my tastes as an individual, not to as a member
of an amorphous (and, potentially apocryphal) class of users...
gregory.
Hi, Gregory
The impression I'm getting is that an issue that seems to be bothering
you is the labeling. Different people have different views. For
example, since I use a wheelchair, I tend to look for doors with
wheelchair symbols because I know they will be easier for me to use.
For most people who aren't disabled, they don't need to look for the
specially marked doors. Having the doors marked with wheelchair symbols
seems very straight-forward.
Looking at the template. Blind people have less trouble using web pages
which are organized according to semantic/concept structure. (I believe
this is probably true for most blind users.) Sighted people often
prefer web pages which are organized to be visually interesting. Does
this make sense to you? (You might want to look at my examples before
answering this.)
In most situations, these pages are very different. (Trying to get one
page to be both usually means compromising either the visual impact or
the ease of use by blind users. Guess who probably does not come out
well in these compromises.) As a result, the templates used to generate
the web pages need to be different. What would you call a template
designed to present information organized according to semantic
structure? It would not be very convenient to call it the
"semantically-organized template" since most blind users would not know
what that means.
Scott
I disagree with Scott's central premise that one and the same document can
not, without an unsatisfactory compromise, be both visually appealing and
structurally organised with appropriate markup. Style sheet positioning,
as yet not widely implemented but for which support is now starting to
become available, is designed to address this problem; and in the interim,
one can of course embed proper structural markup within the table
constructs that have been conventionally misused to produce formatting
effects. In the latter scenario, the table can be linearized, thereby
presenting the user with proper structural divisions, lists, paragraphs,
headings, in-line semantics, etc. Mobile devices demand structural and
semantic richness; style sheets support it, and offer the additional
advantage of allowing the author greater control over presentation than is
possible with HTML tables, in a specification that is expected to be
uniformly implemented across user agents and operating systems. The
increasing adoption of XML will only advance the trend toward separating
content and structure from presentation.
Taking these factors into account, Scott's proposal would be a retrograde
move and I do not support it. The guidelines already provide that, where a
document can not otherwise be made accessible, an alternative version may
be created (checkpoint 11.4). Server-side techniques may be included under
this checkpoint, but the basic position should remain unchanged:
alternative versions are a last resort and an interim solution, to be
avoided where possible.
we will be doing personalization soon. we can include this in our
requirements matrix and see how it works out. Personalization also depends
on the software selected. There are some high-end packages like Vignette
story server and others.
by the way, need to convince marketing there are 31 million PWD who are a
market force. Most marketing execs want to see numbers who buy at the site.
I see personalization as a convincing way because there is no way to tell
who is hiting us with screen readers.
i am for it!
/rob
bank
designed
