Hi, Len
I believe that dynamically generated pages could better handle pages
where a left column contains links and reference information and a
column to the right of that contains text. The screen readers which can
read a column at a time will read all that stuff in the left column
first. Then it reads the column with the text and then the right column
which probably has more links. This reading order is not most optimal
for blind users.
Decorative images can be left out since they can be distracting to blind
users with little useful information. Informational images might be
better handled by having alert boxes which have a long description which
can be accessed on demand. Or, having a section towards the end with
the various image descriptions.
If the page is from a catalog where description is important, the
dynamically generated web page could have a detailed description of the coat
instead of an image on pages for sighted people. The description should
be integrated into the text flow for easier reading.
Sighted users tend to not like text compressed together. More
whitespace is preferred. Blind often like more compressed text on the
screen since they have to interact with their screen reader less
(depending on the screen reader). I've had requests to use smaller fonts
since that puts more text in the window.
My impression is that the fewer of these "speed bumps" which cause
distraction in reading, the easier it is for blind users. It might
be helpful to try some experiments.
Scott
Hi Scott,
You talk at the end of your note about the potential benefit of dynamically
generating different versions of pages. Of the examples you gave the one
where the benefit is most obvious is the radio button vs. drop down list.
Radio buttons are more convenient in many situations for sighted people
(especially when there are a lot of ratings arranged table fashion) but in
a previous discussion on this list blind users pointed out the advantages
of dropdown lists while screenreading. And this isn't just a
hypothetical situation: I'm facing this exact situation right now while
advising some folks how to make an online survey.
In the other examples though, you described solutions that didn't require
dynamic generation. Could you give additional examples in which the
advantages of different forms is more obvious? For example, a case where
text is laid out in a table, and is understandable when linearized, but
could be read more conveniently if not linearized?
By the way, reading order is one situation where style sheet layout could
do the same thing as dynamic generation. To bad we can't count on that in
visual browsers at the moment.
Len
Hi Len,
I was wondering what effect placing a null value in the alt tag. Doesn't
this result in the same problem as having no alt tags at all, in that the
user will be prevented from finding out the reason for the image? I would
assume that in most cases the image has some meaning, and therefore would
benefit the user if they could have a description of it.
I don't doubt that on a very busy interface there might be call to reduce
the amount of text (although perhaps the page is overloaded anyway?) , but
such decisions should be made with a lot of caution, and only when there's
no other way to simplify the page. Otherwise,it might wrongly encourage
designers to use null values on images that would enhance the page.
Gareth Parkinson
Hi Scott,
Thank for the extra example. I just want to check one thing to preempt any
misunderstanding. Even though you offer a page with alternate layout and
other changes to make browsing more efficient with screenreaders, you still
make the default page "accessible" in the conventional sense, right?
For example, the default page would still satisfy the web accessibility
guidelines... alt text, table reading order, etc. It's just that the
alternate page would be more efficient to use.
As for the details...
1. It does seem useful to have an alternate layout where the section of
links and references come at the end instead of the beginning. It might
also be useful to have a link at the start of the page to jump to that
section
2. You speak of leaving out decorative images, but why not accomplish that
by simply having null alt text? A ha.
The difference between null and missing ALT text is the real life behaviors of
browsers. In somecases, MISSING alt text is PREFERABLE to null alt text!
From the User Agent Accessibility Guidelines (now in "last call" status) at
URL:
Q 2.8 When alternative text has been specified explicitly as empty (i.e., an
empty string), render nothing. /Q
This is how Lynx currently behaves, but not pwWebSpeak. The guidelines say
nothing about what to do about missing alt (and invalid html, of which would
be one example. Lynx (and the big two with image loading off) generate
something like [IMAGE]. This is different behavior than ALT=" " or
ALT="nbsp;". The bigger problem is when an image is a link. With Lynx, each
link normally gets a number, so the following snippets of code are shown next
to the default rendering with Lynx:
A HREF="foobar.html" IMG SRC="foobar.gif" /A [1][LINK]
A HREF="foobar.html" IMG SRC="foobar.gif" ALT="Foobar" /A [2]Foobar
A HREF="foobar.html" IMG SRC="foobar.gif" ALT=" " /A [3]
Notice that the last example generates nothing! If "hidden" links are the ONLY
links on a page, Lynx generates a warning, but otherwise these hidden links are
effectively invisible. (One can list all links on a page, or look at the
source code, but these are extreme time consuming measures.)
We have been over this before, and many have made the arguement that ALT="" is
frequently appropriate. I agree that it should be valid html, but I think this
is a point where the WCAG could make a clear unabigious distinction.
The problem with ALT="" is that it is ambiguous. You don't know WHY the author
put that in there. Is he just trying to get his code validated? Is this
REALLY just a decorative, content-free graphic? Does he have something against
text-based browsers? Is this some kind of spacer image? Did he just forget?
IMHO, ALT="" is NEVER prefereable to other choices.
For decorative graphics, use a single non-alphanumeric character. There is
ALWAYS a punctuation mark that is closer in meaning (closer than nothing
anyway) to a "content free" image.
The burden of repeated links (one big arguement for using ALT="" within A HREF
... /A ) is much less of a problem than the chance of missing content and
links!
Bruce Bailey
Hi Scott,
Thank for the extra example. I just want to check one thing to preempt any
misunderstanding. Even though you offer a page with alternate layout and
other changes to make browsing more efficient with screenreaders, you still
make the default page "accessible" in the conventional sense, right?
For example, the default page would still satisfy the web accessibility
guidelines... alt text, table reading order, etc. It's just that the
alternate page would be more efficient to use.
As for the details...
1. It does seem useful to have an alternate layout where the section of
links and references come at the end instead of the beginning. It might
also be useful to have a link at the start of the page to jump to that
2. You speak of leaving out decorative images, but why not accomplish that
by simply having null alt text? A ha.
Bruce,
Thank you for the clear statements on this issue. From a personal
standpoint I have frequently be annoyed by the use of alt="", I am always
left wondering what the intent was and what I might be missing, on the other
hand I don't really need to be told about every little 'spacer.gif', that
too can be annoying. A system of punctuation marks to indicate the function
of various graphics seems like a great solution but since we seem to have
trouble getting people to use any alt= in many cases, it seems like a bit of
a dream.
behaviors of
From the User Agent Accessibility Guidelines (now in "last call" status)
at
an
say
would
each
next
ONLY
links are
ALT="" is
this
author
against
forget?
is
HREF
the
would
would
reduce
but
there's
Hi Scott,
Thank for the extra example. I just want to check one thing to preempt
any
misunderstanding. Even though you offer a page with alternate layout
and
other changes to make browsing more efficient with screenreaders, you
still
make the default page "accessible" in the conventional sense, right?
For example, the default page would still satisfy the web accessibility
guidelines... alt text, table reading order, etc. It's just that the
alternate page would be more efficient to use.
As for the details...
1. It does seem useful to have an alternate layout where the section of
links and references come at the end instead of the beginning. It
might
also be useful to have a link at the start of the page to jump to that
2. You speak of leaving out decorative images, but why not accomplish
that
by simply having null alt text? A ha.
