Is there a way to raise a tooltip onfocus?
if not, why not?
if I asked this already, apologies I forgot.
Jonathan Chetwynd
Tooltips are not themselves directly controlled by HTML, because they
are user-interface widgets tacked on ad hoc by user agents.
Some browsers have chosen a tooltip UI widget of exposing existing
(meta)data. Internet Explorer, for example, has applied tooltips to the
"alt" attribute for images, and the "title" attribute for everything
else. But there is nothing in the HTML or DOM spec that defines how to
control the display of tooltips per se.
m
Matt,
not sure if you are following this thread at wai-ig.
in any case, my concern is that if a UA does some action on mouse
event, it should be/is a standard that this is possible via an
alternative input such as keyboard. As I think you will realise, I'm
unclear as to why you mention HTML. could you please explain?
Even more seriously how are we to reach a consensus about this type of
issue, unless it is discussed somewhere. can you suggest where this
would be more properly discussed? writing individual bug reports is
unlikely to be effective and are frequently ignored if they call for
something that has not been standardised. for instance sound on event.
thanks
jonathan
Jonathan,
UAAG 1.0 satisfies your requirement: it requires that *any operation
of the user agent* be do-able through the keyboard.
- Ian
Ian Jacobs (ij@w3.org) http://www.w3.org/People/Jacobs
Ian,
The recommendation is there, we seem agreed that the implementation is
not difficult, however the reality is that no one knows of a browser
that exhibits this behaviour. As stated to wai-ig, it is not so much
this example as the 'process' that may be faulty.
W3C groups are recommendation focused, and implementation is left to
bug reports.
Where is the discussion group that draws attention to a failure in
understanding?
It is very hard to imagine how this slipped through the net*, and yet
it did.
People with severe learning difficulties have individual and particular
needs.
We will need excellent channels of communication in order to implement
recommendations to their benefit.
thanks
Jonathan
*apologies this may be a UK soccer/football expression referring to
something that was overseen.
Developers read this list, so this is one place to start. And
we talk with developers during teleconferences or in person. So this
may be the most appropriate W3C list for your bug report.
However, it may be necessary to send a bug report to individual
vendors. Unfortunately, the UAWG can only enter into discussion
with developers; we have no enforcement powers.
I agree. We have already heard positive feedback from developers about
our test suite. Perhaps a test for this feature can be added to it.
- Ian
Ian Jacobs (ij@w3.org) http://www.w3.org/People/Jacobs
