Here's the whole thing...
X-Sender: aaron@mail.gwmicro.com
X-Mailer: QUALCOMM Windows Eudora Version 5.1
Date: Mon, 04 Mar 2002 10:59:50 -0500
From: Aaron Smith aaron@gwmicro.com
Subject: GW Micro Helps Make Macromedia Flash Content Accessible to
People Who Are Blind
X-AuthenticatedSender: aaron@gwmicro.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
March 4, 2002
GW Micro Helps Make Macromedia Flash Content Accessible to People Who Are
Blind
(Fort Wayne, IN) -- GW Micro, creator of Window-Eyes Standard and
Window-Eyes Professional, is proud to announce support for the new
Macromedia Flash Player 6 announced today by Macromedia. Window-Eyes is a
software screen reader for people who are blind. Macromedia Flash Player 6
provides Window-Eyes users with access to the most exciting and engaging
content and applications on the web. This is the first release of
Macromedia Flash Player that communicates with screen readers. People with
visual disabilities can now share in the best experience on the web.
Macromedia Flash MX, which was also announced today, enables the
development of a new generation of rich Internet content and applications.
The product simplifies the creation of Section 508-compliant content by
including features to quickly add descriptive text when content is being
created.
Macromedia Flash Player 6 leverages the Microsoft Active Accessibility
(MSAA) standard for accessible application development on the Windows
platform. MSAA provides a standard for assistive technology vendors to
incorporate Macromedia Flash support into their tools. With the release
of Macromedia Flash MX and Flash Player 6, Macromedia is working with
developers and designers to make the web accessible to all.
"Macromedia is committed to making powerful products that push the promise
of the Internet forward without leaving anybody behind," said Bob Regan,
product manager, accessibility, Macromedia. "GW Micro is a leader in
providing accessible solutions built on the MSAA standard, so they were an
obvious choice to ensure rich Macromedia Flash content and applications
were available to people who are blind."
Clarence Whaley, Director of Sales and Marketing for GW Micro, stated,
"The efforts of GW Micro and Macromedia are impacting the lives of those
of us who are blind more than ever before. This product integration allows
more people who are blind to enter the workforce and have greater
independence by accessing web content that in the past had to be read by
someone sighted."
The Window-Eyes Professional software for Windows 95, 98, Me, 2000, XP
Home Edition, and XP Professional retails for $795.00, and is available
for purchase. This one size fits all pricing makes Window-Eyes
Professional the most affordable screen reader on the market, and with the
new Macromedia Flash Player 6 you will have access like never before.
Founded in 1990, GW Micro, a Fort Wayne, Indiana-based assistive
technology company, is committed to producing the most reliable screen
reader available for people who are blind. Using Window-Eyes Professional
and Macromedia Flash MX allows them to view flash content with speech
synthesis and refreshable Braille displays, making it now possible to
enjoy the same access as their sighted peers.
Contact: Clarence Whaley
clarence@gwmicro.com
www.gwmicro.com
615/383-6248
Aaron Smith
GW Micro
WWW: http://www.gwmicro.com
FTP: ftp://ftp.gwmicro.com
Technical Support &amp; Web Development
If you reply to this message it will be delivered to the original
sender only. If your reply would benefit others on the list and
your message is related to GW Micro, then please consider sending
your message to the entire list by addressing your message to
gw-info@gwmicro.com.
Aaron Smith
GW Micro
WWW: http://www.gwmicro.com
FTP: ftp://ftp.gwmicro.com
Technical Support &amp; Web Development
The Window-Eyes Professional software for Windows 95, 98, Me, 2000, XP
Home Edition, and XP Professional retails for $795.00,
Ahem, excuse me! $795, plus the cost of Windows, plus the cost of
hardware capable of running windows! Not to mention the serious
hassle of mopping up each new "virus"!!
How the **** is that supposed to be "accessible" to any but a tiny
minority of the richest blind people?
It's good that you're providing such products, but only so long as
noone starts using it as an excuse for neglecting users of lower-
cost systems!
Nick Kew
Site Valet - the mark of Quality on the Web.
there is a previous message about the macromedia flash, as soon as I try
to reply to that message it sends an abort signal to my e-mail program.
Bob
ASCII Ribbon Campaign accessBob
NO HTML/PDF/RTF in e-mail accessys@smartnospam.net
NO MSWord docs in e-mail Access Systems, engineers
NO attachments in e-mail, *LINUX powered* access is a civil right
THIS message and any attachments are CONFIDENTIAL and may be
privileged. They are intended ONLY for the individual or entity named
above. If you are not the intended recipient, Please notify the sender as
soon as possible. Please DO NOT READ, COPY, USE, or DISCLOSE this
communication to others and DELETE it from your computer systems. Thanks
