Richard, Martin,
After some discussion today, whilst no formal decision was taken, the
RDFCore chairs indicated they "were minded" that there should be a
second last call on the RDFCore specs.
We are aware that the I18N are unhappy with the current RDFCore design
for handling lang tags in xml literals.
Are there any other aspects of the current design as expressed in the
current editors drafts, for example the relationship between plain and
xml literals, that you would you like RDFCore to address.
It would clearly be helpful to us to be able to address any such
concerns before publishing new documents.
Brian
Hello Brian,
Many thanks for your mail.
Do you have any idea of what the RDF Core WG might be going to do with it?
Btw, a page with the documentation of our formal objection is taking shape
at http://www.w3.org/International/Group/2003/rdf.html. [This is currently
member-only.]
We will check during our teleconference tomorrow (Tuesday).
Here is what I managed to remember over the weekend, and what I'll
bring into our teleconference tomorrow:
- There was the issue of casing in language tags. Tex submitted a comment
from us, you clarified the spec, and we accepted the clarification
and told you so, so this should be okay.
- I read the Primer, and handed my well-marked copy of it over to Eric.
He has confirmed that to a large extent, my comments were addressed
in recent edits. Eric plans to bring the marked-up copy back to MIT,
which will allow me to check the details. Some more work on some details,
in particular i18n-related examples (which were extremely sparse in
the last call version) may be needed, but I don't think this should
hold you up in any way.
- I remember having seen a grammatical mistake (wrong gender) in a
German example in one of the documents, but can't recall just now
which document it was. This is easy to fix.
- There was the issue of always escaping non-ASCII characters in N-triples.
We have sent that to you very late, and you have accepted it only as a
post-lastcall comment. I don't remember just now how much you have
done on this issue, but given the circumstances of our last comment,
it's probably not much. I'm personally not inclined to resubmit this
issues, but I know that others in the WG may feel otherwise (and this
is an issue that's much easier to understand than than xml:lang on
XML Literals).
- There is the issue of equivalence between plain literals and XML
Literals. On this issue, we have discovered that this equivalence
doesn't hold rather late in the process, and have therefore not
insisted on it (apart from the confusing equivalence with octets
that turned up at some point). I think that a lot of progress has
been made on this issue, so it could be left as is, but with a new
last call, we may want to consider whether we should bring it up
and ask for full resolution.
- We may have to think about whether we should register an issue
with regards to the treatment of XML Literals as types. When
I read some of the last call documents, I found this treatment
odd, but thought that it may be okay as a technical device as
long as it didn't have any undesirable side-effects.
I hope that this is the kind of information you were looking for.
If not, please feel free to tell me.
Regards, Martin.
Hi Martin,
There are currently no plans to change this.
That is helpful. Thank you for the link.
This is the one that I particularly had in mind when I asked the
question. Addressing it would require some change to the current design.
Ok. That's a new one on my mental list.
Very much so. My concern is to determine whether RDFCore can move to a
second last call immediately. It doesn't seem like a good idea to do a
second last call with the current ed's drafts then make substantive
changes as the result of last call comments on that and then have to do
a third last call. Before doing a second last call we should ensure
that RDFCore have considered all the comments I18N would like to make.
Brian
