Hi,
A great many thanks for making tidy ;-)
My little question is why it (seemingly) is not possible to
capture the output of tidy in a pager program. If I do
tidy -e foo.html | most
it is as if the output stream is terminated just before the
pager program is launched leaving it with an emty buffer?
Thanks,
Morten
"Counting in octal is just like counting in decimal - if you don't use
your thumbs." (Tom Lehrer)
Don't the errors come out on stderr?
So,
tidy -e foo.html |&amp; most
to get everything paged.
This limitation is documented in the "Overview.html" document (that used to
be the home page for the original Tidy project) provided with older
versions of Tidy (and is still available from the main Tidy web page) :
Tidy writes errors to stderr, and won't be paused by the more command. A
work around is to redirect stderr to stdout as follows. This works on Unix
and Windows NT, but not on other platforms. My thanks to Markus Wolf for
this tip!
tidy file.html 2 &amp;1 | more
Hope this helps.
Regards, Terry
Hi,
Thanks to those who replied. To those of you using Lynx I now
have this little tip on validating pages "on the fly" I'd like
to share. If you place these lines in your lynx.cfg
EXTERNAL:http:lynx -source %s | tidy -e 2 &amp;1 | most:TRUE
EXTERNAL:file:lynx -source %s | tidy -e 2 &amp;1 | most:TRUE
you can then validate the current page by pressing "," or
validate a page pointed to by a link by pressing "."
This requires Lynx to be compiled with the ./configure option
--enable-externs. I think that's the default on most
precompiled packages.
"most" is my pager program of preference. Change it to
more/less or whatever suits you.
I have the line below in lynx.cfg to feed the validation output
to my mail program with the purpose of documenting html
problems to the webmaster of the site in cases where the
problems are so grave that they impede navigation.
EXTERNAL:http:lynx -source %s | tidy -e  /tmp/tidy.tmp ; mutt -s "HTML problems at you site" -i /tmp/tidy.tmp
Even if it only helps writing webmasters once in a blue moon
one should still do it, I think ;)
Regards,
Morten
PS: I am not on the list so please cc me if you have any
comments.
"So little time, so little to do." (Oscar Levant)
