Editorial Staff,
I realize this doc is 3 years old and we are in the process of designing WCAG 2 and techniques, but I noted this error that relates to accessing techniques re. forms and device indepencence. This is not reported earlier as per the Errata.
1. While skimming through the Core Techniques for Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 1.0 (Nov 2000) at
I noted that an h2 tag and appropriate header label is needed before following text relating to checkpoints from guideline 9.
Now they appear to be under the section#3 labeled Alternative pages
List of 4 items
. 9.2
Ensure that any element that has its own interface can be operated in a device-independent manner. [Priority 2]
. 9.3
For scripts, specify logical event handlers rather than device-dependent event handlers. [Priority 2]
. 9.4
Create a logical tab order through links, form controls, and objects. [Priority 3]
. 9.5
Provide keyboard shortcuts to important links (including those in client-side image maps), form controls, and groups of form controls. [Priority 3]
list end
A space separator is needed for the word "quicktest" in
2. "Quicktest! To determine if content is structural or presentational, create an outline of your document. Each point in the hierarchy denotes a structural ..."
Sailesh Panchang
Senior Accessibility Engineer
Deque Systems,11180 Sunrise Valley Drive,
4th Floor, Reston VA 20191
E-mail: sailesh.panchang@deque.com
* Look up http://www.deque.com *
I am pinging the group on something that has been bothering me for a
while.
A while back it was explained to me that we were removing the priority 1
requirement that would bar people form using JavaScript
In general terms the reasoning was to avoid make WCAG W3C centric, and
to remove the until user agent stuff
However in practice we have a situation were people can be P! compliant
and totally inaccessible.
For example - my variety site http://www.nagish.org.il/
frame, were the frame set itself is written by a JavaScript and a useful
no frames and no scripts apparently can not be generated by the content
management system. (by the way the site owners are good guys, and are
working to change it)
code snippet from second frameset)
document.write(' frame class="clsFrameTitle" marginwidth="0"
src="frame_title.asp?sp_c=424450463" frameborder="0" scrolling="NO"
noresize ')
I have two questions
1, can a single screen reader out there get to the content of the page
as it is now?
2, would the site owners be likely to entirely rewrite their site, and
change content management systems, if they could still claim some level
of accessibility (after all, the alt tags are filled in -the fonts are
even relative - the site owner tried to make it accessible)
The nagging feeling a the back of my mind, - WCAG 2 may be a more
testable normative document - but is it a better set of guidelines (not
policy) on how to make your website accessible?
Yup, of course - I am still thinking of the demotion of the guideline on
writing clearly...
All the best
Lisa Seeman
Visit us at the UB http://www.ubaccess.com/ Access website
UB Access - Moving internet accessibility
This is a difficult issue to address and not make WCAG look like it is
anti whatever (in this case javascript).
A lot of web developers just don't understand that their web sites are
breaking with all the ad blockers and people who turn Javascript off
because so many sites misused it. If they don't get that there can be
lots of usability issues with javascript in their main target group
sector, they'll never get it that it can cause problems for other less
main stream user agents.
There is a need to raise this issue and put it in WCAG2, but it needs to
be done with a lot of support documents and examples to educate people
as to why this is a problem, only then will they start to understand the
issues and try and address them in design.
Jonathan has some good stuff at
much more than that.
My frustration with WCAG is that there has never been a good bridging
set of documents to show the general web development community how to
implement these guidelines in general web SDLC and their ROI.
These issues are still relevant, they shouldn't be removed from WCAG2,
but we do owe the development community out there a series of technical
documents that clearly show why these issue need to be addressed and
support why WCAG recommends them.
I also have to admit that while I liked the original direction WCAG2 was
going in I do find the more recent drafts becoming more and more vague.
I can't be critical because I haven't contributed, and I know the
people working on it are doing their best.
Just my 1 cent worth (I have one cent less than Chaals:-)
Just as a side interest, I filled out a form in Mozilla today, and the
preliminary form triggered a popup from the submit button to another
form. The problem was that this caused an interface with no access to
Mozilla's Form Manager. It's very frustrating seeing these types of
what I call design mistakes. Most web developers don't see or understand
that behind WCAG is some good old common sense practicality to web design.
Geoff
Lisa, I can give you a better answer about whether screen readers can
"get to" the content of the page if you can give me a specific task to
try. I use JAWS 5.0 with IE 6.
I went to the page just now and was able to get a frames list JAWS
keystroke="Ins+F9) that included four frame. The frames are called
Site, top bar, workarea frame, and bar frame. These aren't especially
useful titles, but they *are* titles and even if they're automatically
generated could presumably be programmed to be more informative.
JAWS is unable to report some of the links on the page, possibly because
they're coded using numerical values (I haven't looked at the source) to
represent characters in a non-Western alphabet.
Some of the graphics appear to have alt text-e.g., "Empty folder."
Again not very informative, but htat's not so much a Javascript problem
as a a Javascriptor problem-i.e., it's the human who wrote the
Javascript, not the language.
John
Behalf Of lisa seeman
I am pinging the group on something that has been bothering me for a
while.
A while back it was explained to me that we were removing the priority 1
requirement that would bar people form using JavaScript
In general terms the reasoning was to avoid make WCAG W3C centric, and
to remove the until user agent stuff
However in practice we have a situation were people can be P! compliant
and totally inaccessible.
For example - my variety site http://www.nagish.org.il/
http://www.nagish.org.il/ were you have a frame, containing an
imbedded frame, were the frame set itself is written by a JavaScript and
a useful no frames and no scripts apparently can not be generated by the
content management system. (by the way the site owners are good guys,
and are working to change it)
code snippet from second frameset)
document.write(' frame class="clsFrameTitle" marginwidth="0"
src="frame_title.asp?sp_c=424450463" frameborder="0" scrolling="NO"
noresize ')
I have two questions
1, can a single screen reader out there get to the content of the page
as it is now?
2, would the site owners be likely to entirely rewrite their site, and
change content management systems, if they could still claim some level
of accessibility (after all, the alt tags are filled in -the fonts are
even relative - the site owner tried to make it accessible)
The nagging feeling a the back of my mind, - WCAG 2 may be a more
testable normative document - but is it a better set of guidelines (not
policy) on how to make your website accessible?
Yup, of course - I am still thinking of the demotion of the guideline on
writing clearly...
All the best
Lisa Seeman
Visit us at the UB Access http://www.ubaccess.com/ website
UB Access - Moving internet accessibility
