2.1 web portals
"academic papers are written by one or more authors, which are people;
people have surnames and given names and affiliations, which are
organizations"
affiliations are not organizations, they are relations between people
ang organization. if you would be creating an ontology for these terms,
you would define people, organizations, and a relationship called
affiliated, whose domain is people, range is organization.
2.2 multimedia collections
"Ontologies can be used to provide semantic annotations for collections
of images, audio, or other non-textual objects. These annotations can
support both indexing and search."
what exactly do you mean by indexing vs. searching? indexing as in
determining what directory to list a certain site (piece of multimedia)
under? it seems to me, that one of the benefits of the "web of
ontologies" ("ontology of the web"?) would be, that such people
searching wouldn't have to rely on such directories.
2.3 corporate web site management
"Furthermore, a parametric search is often more useful than a keyword
search with taxonomies."
what exactly do you mean by parametric search?
the use cases, in my opinion, give "localized" examples. by localized, i
mean that the ontologies only need to describe a limited domain. in
section 2.1, the first sentence states "Web portals are web sites that
collect information on a common topic." in section 2.2, where the
example give is multimedia collections, the domain is again quite
limited. i don't see how this document covers the -problems- involved
with defining ontologies, or relationsships between ontologies that are
"powerful" enough to describe any website available on the Internet,
although it is stated as a design goal: 3.3 ontology interoperability.
marton trencseni
*Marton Trencseni wrote*
What I understand there from a topic map viewpoint - assuming the fundamental topic map
concepts be expressed in OWL - is that indexing a resource may mean several things, e.g
the following:
-- asserting that the resource is an occurrence of a topic
e.g. a portrait of Newton is an occurrence of a topic representing Newton.
-- asserting that the resource (reified as a topic) is an instance of a class of resources
-- asserting specific association(s) linking the reified resource and its indexing
topic(s), and using the roles expressed by metadata or annotations (author, publisher,
subject ...)
All that is more versatile than simply putting a file in a folder (e.g. a website in a
directory), since any of the above assertions is valitated in a scope (domain, language,
viewpoint, user culture, preferences, rights or profile), and different or even
contradictory indexing assertions may be expressed in different scopes (e.g. different
viewpoints on the identity of the guy on this fuzzy picture, or of the author of that
anonymous letter)
Searching will be supported by such indexing, both for people browsing a semantic network
of topics and associations in a specific scope, and for automatic queries in the graph
representing the network.
Bernard
Bernard Vatant - Consultant
Mondeca - "Making Sense of Content"
www.mondeca.com
bernard.vatant@mondeca.com
Marton,
Thanks for you comments, please see my responses below.
Yes, the sentence could be a little more clear.
Indexing could be thought of as classifying resources using terms from
the ontology and adding meta-data about them using properties from the
ontology. Searching is the process of matching a query with these
annotations in order to find relevant information.
A parametric search is one that has one or more parameters. For example,
one might execute a search for a movie where "director=Lucas and
releaseDate  1980." We'll have to add an explanation to the document.
These use cases don't necessarily need to be localized. A portal could
serve multiple communities with some common interests, and might require
different ontologies to serve the differences between these communities.
A multimedia collection may have a common ontology for describing the
media, but may use any number of ontologies to describe the content of
the media. A multimedia collection fo scenes from Western movies should
probably also use an ontology that describes cowboys, horses, saloons,
gunfights etc. A collection of clips from country-western songs might
also use the same Old West ontology, but might also have other
ontologies that deal with pickup trucks, hunting dogs, or divorces.
For how the language is intended to support ontology interoperability,
look at the requirements and objectives that state that as a motivation.
Keep in mind, that we don't propose to completely solve this problem
with this version of the language. We intend to provide some features
that allow partial interoperability such as establishing equivalence
between terms in different ontologies and using terms from other
ontologies to form complex descriptions of terms in new ontologies.
Jeff Heflin
