Mathias sent this directly to me. I believe it was intended to go back to
the list. I've CC'd the main DAV list since this is turning from a quick
poll about interop into a discussion of approaches.
Cheers,
-g
----- Forwarded message from Mathias.Picker@virtual-earth.de -----
From: Mathias.Picker@virtual-earth.de
Subject: Re: [Interop] quick poll on the Translate field
Date: Mon, 5 Nov 2001 12:12:15 +0100 (CET)
SimpleCMS does support it, as well as the source/link way of doing it.
-- which WebDAV Servers and Clients support (or will very soon) the
'Translate' field ? (besides IE on PC)
mod_dav does not implement it, and it never will.
IMO, it is the wrong approach to solving the problem. The source/link
stuff and multiple resources is the right way. You didn't ask for a
No, it isn't. translate and source/link solve different problems. WebDAV
emulates a file system layer. So my clients expect _one_ source file.
Everthing else is nice-to-have, and may be very powerfull for some uses,
but is obviously wrong for a simple: give me _this_ resource,
untranslated.
As for SimpleCMS, we could well use the both approaches for different
reasons (we do not right now).
Situation: every page is transformed on-the-fly, using a menu-module,
and possible background, logo etc. resources.
So, where should the source link(s) point to? The complete solution:
- a raw version of the url in question
and probably
- a menu vonfig page, where the current menu style is choosen (or the
menu program module??)
- the background gif
- the logo, if used
- any sub-dir logos, if used
- possible many more resources.
- if it's a database generated pag: possible pointers to the raw table
data, too.
Very powerfull, potentially very usefull, but tell me: how should a
network redirector like WebIFS show this mess to the user??
Instead, the translate header would just say: give me _this_ url,
untranslated. No questions what this means. One resource. No choice (no
power, too :). Easy to realize, consistent with the file system model,
and easy to explain to the user.
So: source link are nice and powerfull and may be used for advanced
purposes, but are simply not the same as translate.
Use both.
Just my two cents
Cheers, Mathias
"why?" (which is good: that belongs on w3c-dist-auth), but I figured
people would want to at least hear a bit more reason why mod_dav is
taking a stance against it.
Cheers,
-g
virtual earth
Mathias Picker
Gesch?ftsf?hrer Gesellschaft f?r Wissens re/pr? sentation mbH
Mathias.Picker@virtual-earth.de
Fon +49 89 / 540 7425-1
----- End forwarded message -----
Greg Stein, http://www.lyra.org/
I don't have a firm opinion on source vs translate (ie: we have not
implemented it yet! :-), but I have been finding the 'source' arguments
more convincing so I am leaning that way at present. Its also what
is in the standard.
Well, I would say logos should not be included as they are not a
part of the HTML resource (they would have separate URLs referenced
via a IMG SRC="..." I would assume). Since we are talking about
Web resources identified by URLs, I think including other resources
referenced by a resource ( IMG SRC=... or A HREF=... ) are
out of scope.
I am not sure what "possibly many more resources" would be, so I
cannot comment on them.
If its a database generated page (eg: content retrived from a database)
then I would say that is out of scope. The database is not part of
the script - it is referenced by the script.
So from your above list, we are only left with
- raw version of the URL in question (which I assume means raw version
of the resource referenced by the URL in question)
- a menu config page, where the current menu style is chosen
So you are saying that it is not necessary to edit the 'menu config
page'? If this is the case, then the source information would only
be one URL. If you are saying its important to be able to edit
all of the resources, then you are saying the translate header is
not enough.
As I think you are arguing against the source link, I think the point
you are trying to make is that you would rather restrict the system to
have exactly one 'source' resource behind a URL--that way you can use
a 'translate' header with a single URL instead of allocating different
URLs to all of the source resources behind a URL. This makes clients
easier to write.
But you also seem to be making a case that a single source resource
behind a URL is actually insufficient, which is why there may be multiple
source values. The problem with this is it makes tools harder to
write as they have to deal with multiple sources.
Proposal:
How about introducing the concept of a single *primary* source. Simple
tools can then access that one only, whereas more powerful tools can
show the full list of sources. (Hopefully the URLs will make it clear
enough what the sources are when there are multiple of them - eg by
looking at file extensions on URLs.) To avoid changing the protocol,
the first source returned could be said to be the primary source.
If there is no such thing as a primary source, then the translate
scheme wont work correctly anyway as it is based on the presumption
that there is a single primary source for all web resources.
Alan
Hello,
I have a question for the webdav community about the link, src and dest
elements as specified in RFC 2518.
If I have a webdav server running and I want to make a reference to a jpeg
image on the server, is this how I would go about it? --
PROPPATCH /aJpegImage.jpg HTTP/1.1
Connection: Keep-Alive
Host: server:80
Content-Type: text/xml
Content-Length: ***
Then, would the url http://server/referenceToAJpegImage.jpg return the image
data at http://server/aJpegImage.jpg server-side or is this up to the client
application??
