Chris Lilley, Brian Stell and others have been discussing the rash of
irate, "get me off this list" mesages the listserv has received, lately.
Well, folks: YOU CAN'T UNSUBSCRIBE FROM THIS LIST! I've tried for 2
months to get off this list, I've followed the rules, I've tried
variations of the theme, looking for some hidden code--all to no avail.
So, the last resort of those who have tried everything else is to post
to the list they want to be rid of. It's irony, but it's a fact.
PLEASE GET ME OFF THIS LIST@!%$#$^%
Rob Wood
HyperGold Web Services
Well, that explains a lot! I've been trying for awhile too, and I can't
seem to get off.
Please! Take me off this list! And *fix* your subscribe/unsubscribe
automated email list!!
--Kim Haeger
Technical Writer
Netscape
Please remain calm. Our automated list manager works very well.
Sometimes there are problems due to:
- you being subscribed under another name/address -- this was the case
for the first among the two recent messages.
- you being subscribed to a mail exploder in the company you work
for -- this, I believe, was the case for the second person. Please
talk to your sysadm about this problem -- there is nothing we can do
Regards,
-h&amp;kon
H ? k o n W i u m L i e
howcome@w3.org W o r l d Wide W e b Consortium
inria ???#?? FRANCE http://www.w3.org/people/howcome
"Please remain calm. Our automated list manager works very well.
Sometimes there are problems due to:
- you being subscribed under another name/address -- this was the case
for the first among the two recent messages."
Well, after receiving a message that informed me of this, I responded
with an unsubscribe e-mail with my unaliased e-mail address, and today
received an automated response informing me that your software could not
find my name on your list.
I am very calm. I simply want off this list.
Rob Wood (rwood@hooked.net,rwood@hypergold.com)
HyperGold Web Services
"It is possible that you are on another mailing list that is sending you
the www-font messages. If you're on an internal mailing list where you
work, for instance, and someone subscribed that list to the www-font
list,
you may be getting it indirectly, in which case unsubscribing yourself
will not get you off the list."
Thanks for the helpful info, but I just received a message saying that I
have been removed from the list. Why? Because I posted my difficulties
to the list. Sorry I had to burden you all with my problems, but as you
can see, it worked.
Rob Wood
HyperGold Web Services
Sam Berlow
General Manager
The Font Bureau, Inc.
www.fontbureau.com
UNSUBSCRIBE.SIGROLLY
