Is it correct that captions are not required for audio clips? In other
words, is it correct that synchronization is not required between audio
clips and their text equivalents (i.e., text transcripts)? Audio clips must
have text equivalents, to be sure (per checkpoint 1.1).
Captions for audio clips would be helpful for people who have a hearing
impairment but some residual hearing. They could, for example, listen a song
and but see the words in synchronized fashion, thus being able to make
better use of their residual hearing.
The various guidelines seem to refer to captions almost exclusively in the
context of multimedia presentations, but not for audio clips.
Perhaps, there should be a checkpoint along the lines of the following:
"1.4.A For any audio presentation, provide captions. [Priority 2 {or 3}]"
From the standpoint of Web authoring, this would require the text transcript
of the audio presentation to be synchronized with with the auditory
presentation.
Having this as a Priority 2 or 3 rather than as Priority 1 represents a
change from an earlier memo
(http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-gl/1999OctDec/0165.html), I
argued for a higher priority (Priority 1). I also referred to synchronizing
the text transcript (rather than "captions") and referred to audio clips, as
opposed to the more generic "audio presentation":
"New WCAG checkpoint 1.4.E (4 December 1999) (id: WC-ACLIP-SYNC-TT):
"1.4.E Synchronize each audio clip with its text transcript. [Priority 1]"
{I prefer the brevity of this version.}
{or}
"1.4.E For each audio clip, provide data that will allow user agents to
synchronize the audio clip with the text transcript. [Priority 1]"
"Note: This checkpoint becomes effective one year after the release of a W3C
recommendation addressing the synchronization of audio clips with their text
transcripts."
Rationale: Synchronization between the audio clip and the text transcript is
essential or near-essential for many individuals who are deaf or hard of
hearing but who have some residual hearing because it will allow them to
match what they _are_ able to hear with the text transcript. I could also
argue for this being Priority 2 rather than Priority 1, though Priority 1 is
probably fine and in keeping with existing (5 May) checkpoint. By the way, I
use the term "audio clip" rather than "auditory track" because I reserve the
latter for multimedia presentations.
In summary, I don't think that Priority 1 is warranted and I am not sure
what I was thinking when I said that Priority 1 was in keeping with some 5
May checkpoint.
As an aside, I assume now that it is fine to refer to "captions" for audio
clips. I had previously reserved the word for multimedia presentations. If I
am not correct in this regard, then I would appreciate being corrected.
Also, I assume that the reference "multimedia presentations" refer to
presentations the include movies and animations but not simply audio clips
(or streaming audio). Again, if I am wrong on this I would appreciate
learning the rationale.
For comparison, here is WCAG 1.0 checkpoint 1.4
"1.4 For any time-based multimedia presentation (e.g., a movie or
animation), synchronize equivalent alternatives (e.g., captions or auditory
descriptions of the visual track) with the presentation. [Priority 1] "
JW:
It appears to be broadly agreed within the group that a requirement to
synchronize text transcripts with audio presentations should be
established, at least at a priority 2 level.
PJ:
Where is the broad agreement? Bruce, Jason, and Charles seem to agree with
P2. I'm arguing for P3, and Robert and Eric seem OK with either P2 or P3,
and I haven't heard form others. I do agree that there seems agreement
that we need to make the distinction between multimedia videos and unimedia
sounds files in the errata so that WCAG 1.4 doesn't apply to the unimedia
sound only files.
Bruce and Charles have made some good points, that it "could" be useful:
BB:
With the very reasonable points made about residual hearing, English as a
foreign language, learning disabilities, etc....
and Charles claimed it is valuable:
CMN:
having the sound and the captions/score available
and synchronisd is more valuable than one or the other
PJ:
but I've heard no supporting rationale or any convincing evidence that
suggests that the "value" is more than useful and improves accessibility
[P3].
Because the deaf, [learning disabled, or those learning a foreign
language] are so comfortable now with synchronized television (and movie)
captioning, does not support the argument that they will be comfortable or
have significant barriers removed with synchronized captioned audio only
files. Can anyone even show me an sample example, or better yet, a real
example on the Web or anywhere? If we don't add a supporting technique, a
checkpoint requiring [even at P3] synchronized captions for audio only
files shouldn't even be added to the guidelines. I've seen natural
language courses use techniques of synchronization to TEACH the language,
but we're talking about guideline 1 - equivalent alternative information -
not "teaching natural languages" or "teaching singing". We have been
talking about ideas and theories, how can we suppose that it fits the
definition of "significant barriers". P3 is still "valuable" and "useful"
and "improves accessibility".
Regards,
Phill Jenkins
from an implementation standpoint, what does everyone think about having
text transcripts as P2 for a video clip and synchronized captions P3?
It appears to be broadly agreed within the group that a requirement to
synchronize text transcripts with audio presentations should be
established, at least at a priority 2 level.
with
unimedia
With the very reasonable points made about residual hearing, English as a
foreign language, learning disabilities, etc....
having the sound and the captions/score available
and synchronisd is more valuable than one or the other
I think that defining priority on the basis of a implementation difficulty is
a serious mistake. We have a reasonable ability to understand user needs in a
regular way, and to get them roughly right. Deciding what is easily
implemented is clearly not within the bounds even of a group of developers,
since one lot will say "that can't be done" while another lot comes and says
"oh, we did that years ago".
At least this has been my experience in the Authoring Tools Group.
Charles McCN
from an implementation standpoint, what does everyone think about having
text transcripts as P2 for a video clip and synchronized captions P3?
It appears to be broadly agreed within the group that a requirement to
synchronize text transcripts with audio presentations should be
established, at least at a priority 2 level.
with
unimedia
With the very reasonable points made about residual hearing, English as a
foreign language, learning disabilities, etc....
having the sound and the captions/score available
and synchronisd is more valuable than one or the other
W3C Web Accessibility Initiative http://www.w3.org/WAI
21 Mitchell Street, Footscray, VIC 3011, Australia (I've moved!)
