Folks,
I apologize for this post if it is seriously untimely. I'm behind in
reading due to pressures at work unrelated to my activities here. I usually
read e-mail at home either before or after work, and, when I read in the
morning, usually put together my thoughts on the drive to and from work. I
have been reading this list for almost a year, have contributed from time
to time, but am increasingly concerned that the guidelines are being pulled
toward accomodating the *preferences* of some groups of disabled, while the
basic needs of other groups are still largely ignored.
I started to look through the recent update of techniques, but realized
that my concerns aren't there so much as they are with the guidelines
themselves, so I clicked to the guidelines, dated Mar 9 2000, and began to
study what is missing. I read, and re-read Guideline one, moved on to
others, and kept returning to Guideline One.
Guideline 1: Provide equivalent alternatives to auditory and visual content.
Why does it stop at just auditory and visual, why does it not also suggest
equivalent alternatives to text? Not only does the guideline ignore the
burden that text presents to some members of the diabled community, but in
the second paragraph, it states that the purpose of the guideline is to
require *text equivalents* to anything that isn't already in text,
explicitely excluding those who cannot use text. In the same paragraph,
some of the largest groups of disabled are dismissed by saying that speech
synthesization provides for their needs. It does not. Speech synthesizers,
according to the last time I questioned it on this list, sill do not
generally allow the user to see the graphics on a page while speaking the
text. This makes the speech synthesizer near worthless for many/most? with
cognitive disabilities, learning disabilities, and reading disabilities. It
is a presumption that speech synthesizers accommodate these needs, and a
presumption without substance in reality, as I know it.
Is it too late to consider including *text* as a format on the web that
needs accommodation?
At present, the learning disabled adults I know who are using the web use
it mainly for entertainment - the information isn't accessible to their
NEEDS.
Shouldn't there be real accommodations for these folks who are
specifically named as "accommodated" by the guidelines?
A start would be to include "text" in the formats which need "equivalents"
provided when the information may be needed by those with cognitive,
learning and/or reading disabilities.
Again, I apologize if I should have made this point several months back.
Anne
Anne L. Pemberton
apembert@crosslink.net
Enabling Support Foundation
AP:: "Is it too late to consider including *text* as a format on the web
that needs accommodation?"
WL: "Considering" it is of absolutely no use unless we know how to
accommodate this need. We discuss it a lot but there is no proposal ever
made as to *HOW* this might be done. It is frustrating that there seems
to be nothing we can do about it, but those of us who would love to do
something don't know of anything we can do. I don't know how to present
any alternative to text that is at all effective. I don't know of any.
So far I can't even imagine any. I want to do this because I feel many
are left out but I just have no clue on what to do. We may deplore and
possibly explore, but so far no joy.
If you have any ideas that might help, please let us know. The reason
for providing text alternatives for illustrations is that this is useful
for some people *AND WE KNOW HOW TO DO IT*. Of course we won't stop
calling for that in the guidelines. If we simply say "provide
alternatives to text" we are faced with the dilemma of trying to explain
how to do that and I have absolutely no idea where to begin.
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
William,
When I kept reading and re-reading the first guideline, it seemed to me
that the answer of "How to do it" was right there in the guideline. Simply
round out the guideline to include everything. If there is to be a text
alternative to audio, then audio is an alternative to text. Likewise,
graphics/illustrations, which require a text alternative, can be the
alternative to text. Video or multi-media is also an alternative to text
that is widely used (in the form of TV) by those who cannot process text.
In the site, http://www.ih.k12.oh.us/ps/americana/Eberle/EBsongs.htm , two
forms of information are provided, pictures of the persons, and songs that
describe why these people are important to study. The only text on the page
is the name of each person under the picture (which is the link to the
music). While the substance presented on the page may be a bit limited for
older folks, the format used can meet the needs of those who cannot process
text.
It really is do-able, William, but it does require thinking "out of the
box" to look for what is useful to this population instead of text.
It may be necessary to look at all the "bad stuff" that isn't accessible
to those who prefer text, and identify those techniques that have come
about because the non-education segment of the web audience like them, and
determine those which have evolved because they meet needs of users, and
insure that the guidelines don't discourage these formats. One of the most
frequent "accommodation" provided to learning disabled high schoolers is to
have a teacher or adult "mark up" or highlight the important facts in a
text using color. Learning disabled as well as other kids are taught to use
tables and illustrations to guide understanding. All children are taught to
organize information into table format and to extract information from
tables. Sometimes the information put in tables is "data" and can be easily
linearized, but much tabular information is in sentences or paragraphs, and
without the table format, the relationship between facts is lost. These are
a few of the issues in the guidelines that I find problematic for this
large segment of the disabled communities. There are undoubtedly more I
haven't focused on.
IMHO, the guidelines would be greatly improved if the need to provide
alternatives to text were included and stated as accommodations to the
needs of the many disabled who are now avoiding text on the web.
Anne
Anne L. Pemberton
apembert@crosslink.net
Enabling Support Foundation
