This was prompted by 37signals, my favorite web agency, launching a
XHTML/CSS redesign today.
Why not start a collection of standards-compliant sites? You know, have a
linkdrop where we post standards-compliant sites and people can go to one
resource to see working examples of what the evangelists are talking about,
the way k10k-type portals showcase what's going on in the design community.
It's one thing to read the tutorials and try stuff out in your own
backyard, but it's great to see what other people cook up too. I know my
personal interests lie in finding commercial, non-experimental sites like
37signals that put their money where their mouth is. The only other company
like that I've come across was from a Zeldman link a while back,
Good idea?
Al Abut
I agree ... and we are starting a links database at www.studiowhiz.com one
of the catagories slated is the XHTML, CSS built sites. I'll let you know
when this goes live
I've also just rebuilt www.kiwi-interactive.com to complete XHTML Strict and
CSS. This little project is my company site. I'm going to use it as a living
example of Standards Based site design. As I learn more, and push my own
boundaries it will change. I've yet to add more graphical designs to this.
The one thing I find...this is me wearing my designer hat for a moment. 99%
of XHTML &amp; CSS driven sites that I 've seen look very similar and have
really lacking imagry.
You mention k10k ... okay I personally think it's icky .. BUT ... look at
the graphically RICH interface there. How on EARTH do you rebuild that AS IT
IS using standards based HTML? IE: no tables!
I'd love to be able to do this
.contentCELL {
top-right-corner: 1px curve green;
top-left-corner: 1px square green;
border: 1px solid green;
bottom-left-corner: 1px curve green;
bottom-right-corner: 1px square green;
Or similar to enable more "designy" type interfaces like K10K. The most
common thing I run into is that XHTML &amp; CSS sites are often boring.
So I'm all for finding really AWESOMELY designed standards based sites, to
show that these too can appeal to designers.
*removing desiner hat*
Thanks
K.
about,
community.
company
Keran McKenzie
Founder | Kiwi Interactive Ltd
i don't think it would be too difficult -- the k10k uses
a lot of graphical titles and other text items, which you
can position absolutely on the screen.
for html-based text, you could use iframe content blocks,
which would allow you to absolutely define both the height
and width of the content area. no worrying about stretchy
content.
and, to support the absolute positioning of all items on
the page, you could launch k10k in a separate browser
window, with the height and width of the window defined.
am pretty sure that they already down browser-sniffing
and css stylesheet swapping for netscape and ie users
to begin with...
who knows... maybe we could get 37 signals to do a
"37betterK10K" site for showcasing this. they just did
a css/xhtml overhaul of their own site.
/anthony
anthony baker | aim: meadowlark07
t: 415.441.6819 | f: 415.276.9388
Yeah or we could do it ourselves :) he he he
