To streamline the meeting a bit, I thought I would report on recent and
upcoming outreach projects to the list.
Every Wednesday afternoon, beginning back on April 26, 2000 and extending
into the foreseeable future, my team does one or two Web site accessibility
demonstrations for Government of Canada (GoC) Web masters and their design
teams. Each session begins with a talk about the W3C, WAI, WCAG etc.. The
GoC is committed to achieving "Double-A compliance" with WCAG as part of
its Common Look and Feel Policy. This service continues to gather rave
reviews from participants.
June 16: Presentation on WAI Web accessibility and GoC Common Look and Feel
Policy to Health Canada Web masters (Department of Health).
July 26: Presenting to the State of Connecticut's "ConneCT Management
Advisory Committee" to help launch their "Year of ConneCT
Accessibility". Their goal is to have all Connecticut State Government Web
Sites universally accessible by July 26, 2001. (Note: their goal is "Single
A" compliance).
Regards,
Chuck
Starling Access Services
"Access A World Of Possibility"
e-mail: info@starlingweb.com
URL: http://www.starlingweb.com
Hi:
It appears as though the revised Policy
the 10-day review and comment period by the full CMAC membership and is on
its way to the Department of Information Technology for a stamp of approval
and distribution to agency commissioners!
The two other speakers at the meeting on the 26th are Nancy Wyman, State
Comptroller (my boss) and Dr. Donna Balaski, the Deputy Commissioner of the
Board of Education Services for the Blind.
~ Kathleen
Spider Web Woman Designs
URL: http://www.spiderwebwoman.com
AWARE: http://aware.hwg.org/
Web
"Single
The NASA Webmaster asked me to forward the address for an accessibility page they've
developed for your comments. (Sorry for the delay, Chas)
Karl
"Charles (or Chas) Redmond" credmond@hq.nasa.gov on 06/22/2000 07:45:44AM
Subject: URL for web accessibility tips
We have placed the web accessibility document we showed at the last ViTS on
the HQ server. There are three sections, the main, "how to" section, and a
section on best practices and a section on assistive technology (which is
incomplete but evolving). The principal URL is:
We have also created a URL shortcut for the same site
Feel free to link to this (it is accessible on the public net) and also feel free to
comment, request additions, forward your learned lessons, etc.
Thanks
Chas Redmond
NASA Headquarters, Code CI
300 E St., SW, Wash. DC 20546
202-358-1757 (voice/voicemail)
1-888-782-8703 (pager)
regrets for call tomorrow
Jim Allan, Statewide Technical Support Specialist
Texas School for the Blind and Visually Impaired
1100 W. 45th St., Austin, Texas 78756
"Be BOLD and mighty forces will come to your aid." Basil King
