All
apologies if this arrives twice but the first post didn't seem to appear
after a couple of hours waiting.
I am working on the assumption that using an image to submit a form will
cause accessibility problems either because of the need for javascript or
because it would mean using invalid html to create a text alternative for
the image. I am in a situation where I am being asked to use images for form
submission and would like to hear the views of list members.
thanks
Julian
Julian Scarlett
Web Design &amp; Document Management System Officer
PPU
Education Directorate
Sheffield City Council
0114 2735612
mob 07904914976
julian.scarlett@sheffield.gov.uk
The information in this email is confidential. The contents may not be disclosed or used by anyone other than the addressee. If you are not the addressee, please tell us by using the reply facility in your email software as soon as possible. Sheffield City Council cannot accept any responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of this message as it has been transmitted over a public network. If you suspect that the message may have been intercepted or amended please tell us as soon as possible.
Adding a TITLE tag to an INPUT TYPE="image" should solve the problem.
Aaron Smith
GW Micro
WWW: http://www.gwmicro.com
FTP: ftp://ftp.gwmicro.com
Technical Support &amp; Web Development
Accessibility issues aside, it's simply not worth the time and effort (and
therefore the money) spent to design graphical buttons. Inevitably, those
buttons will need to change for some reason. Whether it's a new color
scheme that is implemented, or the actual text on the buttons. It is simply
more cost-effective to leave the buttons as input elements and use CSS to
style them.
Randal
Is the title attribute read by all browsers and is it an acceptable
substitute for alt text? What happens in a screen reader when it hits the
title attribute?
J.
The information in this email is confidential. The contents may not be disclosed or used by anyone other than the addressee. If you are not the addressee, please tell us by using the reply facility in your email software as soon as possible. Sheffield City Council cannot accept any responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of this message as it has been transmitted over a public network. If you suspect that the message may have been intercepted or amended please tell us as soon as possible.
What happens? It gets read! grin
I know that Window-Eyes supports the TITLE tag for form controls, and I
believe JFW does as well. In terms of browsers, TITLE is supported at least
by Netscape 2, 3, 4, 6, Internet Explorer 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, Opera, and WebTV.
Aaron Smith
GW Micro
WWW: http://www.gwmicro.com
FTP: ftp://ftp.gwmicro.com
Technical Support &amp; Web Development
Would the BUTTON element do what you need?
If it works, you don't need a script, you've got a place for ALT on the IMG within, etc. Do browsers break on this? Screen readers?
Al
JAWS 4.x requires the user configure JAWS to read title attributes, but once
that configuration is made I've found it to be very reliable in all the
testing I've done with it - JAWS has read the title attribute in every
instance we've employed it.
Joel
Joel Sanda
Product Manager, Standards
Product Engineering &amp; Technology
------------------------------------------------------- www.eCollege.com
joels@eCollege.com
p. 303.873.7400 x 3021
f. 303.873.7449
eCollege Supporting your Success
What happens? It gets read! grin
I know that Window-Eyes supports the TITLE tag for form controls, and I
believe JFW does as well. In terms of browsers, TITLE is supported at least
by Netscape 2, 3, 4, 6, Internet Explorer 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, Opera, and WebTV.
Aaron Smith
GW Micro
WWW: http://www.gwmicro.com
FTP: ftp://ftp.gwmicro.com
Technical Support &amp; Web Development
Images for submit buttons are part of HTML, and are accessible to screen
readers. You will run into all of the same problems related to nonscalable
text as for any text that is presented in a graphic, but the form will work
fine.
don't forget the alt attribute in the input element!
AWK
Andrew Kirkpatrick
CPB/WGBH National Center for Accessible Media
125 Western Ave.
Boston, MA 02134
E-mail: andrew_kirkpatrick@wgbh.org
Web site: ncam.wgbh.org
617-300-3400 (main NCAM)
617-300-2489 (TTY)
WGBH enriches people's lives through programs and services that educate,
inspire, and entertain, fostering citizenship and culture, the joy of
learning, and the power of diverse perspectives.
Andrew
I have got it into my head that having an alt and width/height for an image
input wasn't valid html (html 4.01). Am I wrong or will code you suggest not
validate?
Julian
The information in this email is confidential. The contents may not be disclosed or used by anyone other than the addressee. If you are not the addressee, please tell us by using the reply facility in your email software as soon as possible. Sheffield City Council cannot accept any responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of this message as it has been transmitted over a public network. If you suspect that the message may have been intercepted or amended please tell us as soon as possible.
What's the problem with:
granted input/ with type="image" doesn't allow for longdesc, but unless
you need to map the image for some reason I don't see any problems with
alt or any need for javascript.
Yes, you're wrong. http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/interact/forms.html#edef-INPUT
allows for alt. It doesn't allow for the width and height attributes that
you can use on img but they are deprecated anyway, use style="height:
100px; width: 100px;" etc.
Hi Julian,
I finished for some days a very long form that can
be sent with an image as input button. I only used XHTML 1.1. (cgi-script is
already on the server) I could recieve the form I sent in Lynx. But for people
who don't have a browser that can send the form with an image as button
I already planned alternative pages for all the forms I have in the fansite..
Why should you use an alt text? You can easily write next to it. Press the..
(what the inputbutton presents to be)
to send the form and the alt attribute=""
See
I could also send this formular with a screenreader.
Greeting
Ineke van der Maat
I don't use any table for layout so I don
disclosed or used by anyone other than the addressee. If you are not the
addressee, please tell us by using the reply facility in your email software as
soon as possible. Sheffield City Council cannot accept any responsibility for
the accuracy or completeness of this message as it has been transmitted over a
public network. If you suspect that the message may have been intercepted or
amended please tell us as soon as possible.
Validates fine with (and without) the alt attribute. JAWS will read title
or alt, but I find it easier to tell developers that when they use an image,
they always use alt.
code starts...
!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/2000/REC-xhtml1-20000126/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd"
/
...code ends.
On 5/24/02 11:19 AM, Scarlett Julian (ED)
input type="image" src="foo.gif" alt="submit" width="50"
height="20" /
Andrew Kirkpatrick
CPB/WGBH National Center for Accessible Media
125 Western Ave.
Boston, MA 02134
E-mail: andrew_kirkpatrick@wgbh.org
Web site: ncam.wgbh.org
617-300-3400 (main NCAM)
617-300-2489 (TTY)
WGBH enriches people's lives through programs and services that educate,
inspire, and entertain, fostering citizenship and culture, the joy of
learning, and the power of diverse perspectives.
There's an interesting (although massively picky) article on using
input type="image" / in text browsers at
Cheers
Tom Gilder
There is no such thing as an image button in HTML. There are images within
button elements, but there is no clean fallback mechanism for these, and
the first browsers (other than Lynx) to implement them, did so in a way only
suitable for client side scripting. There are also image maps on forms. As
image maps, they break the cachability of GET mode forms because they don't
send exactly the same coordinates every time.
Because what you call image buttons are image maps and are virtually useless
for text mode browsers, when used for their intended purpose. The fact
that Lynx may display them when it doesn't display ordinary images is
purely the result of a pragmatic error recovery policy.
This reads like "click here" to me!
* the IMG within, etc. Do browsers break on this? Screen readers?
The first Microsoft browser to support them failed to provide the
name and value when used to actually submit the form - they obviously
implemented them only for client side scripting. At the time, I was
actually involved with developing HTML applications and I was doing
some of the work in the, unsupported by marketing, Lynx browser. It
worked with BUTTON, but the application failed on the IE browser that
was the official target! (I think this was IE4.)
The real problem, though, is that button does nothing at all on pre-HTML
4 browsers; whoever designed it forgot to provide a graceful degradation
path. Combined with the fact that designers had already started using
DHTML for animation effects and had long since found a workable solution
for graphical buttons meant that it was dead in the water from the start,
and the latter point means it is still dead in the water - although not
a scripting issue in this case, this is the greatest problem for any
attempt to provide declarative alternatives for scripting - the scripts
do what the designers want and the elegance of the declarative approach
is not enough to make them change.
It requires some care to make image submit buttons reasonably accessible,
and you cannot achieve as good accessibility as with normal submit buttons.
There have been quite a many answers already in the list, but I'm afraid
that even if combined, they paint an incomplete picture of the situation.
If you use input type="image" , then accessibility is fairly good _if_ you
identical values, e.g.
INPUT TYPE="image" SRC="search.png" VALUE="Search" ALT="Search"
NAME="Search"
The reason is that different browsers use different attributes as specifying
the alternate text. There might still be problems with some browsers that
use _none_ of them, though that's rather rare. (Adding a title="..."
attribute hardly helps much. Browsers that support it surely support some of
the other ways as well.) But there are _other_ accessibility problems.
The "image button" is most often just text in some stylicized form. The
question naturally arises whether it would then be better to use a normal
submit button with a style sheet. An image is of fixed size, so it will
cause problems to people who need larger font size. A well-styled normal
button can adapt to the user's preferences as regards to the font size.
On Netscape 4, image buttons don't participate in the tabbing order. This is
serious to people who need (or strongly before) keyboard access to all
functionality.
Using button isn't really an option. It does not degrade gracefully on
non-supporting browsers.
In principle, you could use an img element with an event attribute that
submits the form, with a normal (or image) submit button specified as an
alternative in a noscript element. But the markup for img should be
JavaScript-generated (with document.write(...)) then, to avoid a non-working
button-like appearing when JavaScript is off.
A summary of the problems and partial solutions:
"Executive summary": consider first using a normal submit button and a style
sheet; if that's not feasible, make sure the input type="image" element
has name, value, and alt attributes with an identical value.
Jukka Korpela
TIEKE Tietoyhteiskunnan kehitt?miskeskus ry
Finnish Information Society Development Centre
Salomonkatu 17 A, 10th floor, FIN - 00100 HELSINKI, FINLAND
