Hi,
I saw some sort of validator a while back that also checked the site had a
privacy policy. Can anyone please refresh my failing memory on this?
Geoff
I know Cynthia checks for an Accessibility report and/or a site map by
parsing a text string of your choosing (under Settings, Accessibility Rules
Settings...).
You could customise this to look for a string of text pointing to the
Privacy policy.
I'm running AccVerify DS2 by HiSoftware Inc
Hope this helps
Michael Virant
---------------------- Forwarded by Michael Virant/NRE on 31/03/2004 01:08
PM ---------------------------
gdeering@acslink.net.au@w3.org on 31/03/2004 01:03:14 PM
Sent by: w3c-wai-ig-request@w3.org
Subject: Validator with check for Privacy Policy
Hi,
I saw some sort of validator a while back that also checked the site had a
privacy policy. Can anyone please refresh my failing memory on this?
Geoff
Yes, I looked at that because I thought I saw it there, but that's not the
one that I remember. I'm sure it's a relatively knew one that was mentioned
here, or maybe an update or something.
-----Oprindelig meddelelse-----
Fra: w3c-wai-ig-request@w3.org [mailto:w3c-wai-ig-request@w3.org] P?
vegne af Geoff Deering
Sendt: 31. marts 2004 05:03
Til: WAI Interest Group
Emne: Validator with check for Privacy Policy
Hi,
I saw some sort of validator a while back that also checked the site had
a privacy policy. Can anyone please refresh my failing memory on this?
Geoff
AccVerify has customised reports that can check for privacy policy settings
- you can download some sample reports from the HiSoftware site.
Beware though that it is not the easy solution that you may think - indeed I
have found the software in general to need a whole host of tweeking and
bespoke extras adding to it in order to release its full potential.
Hopefully HiSoftware will improve these aspects in forthcoming editions - it
aint cheap - its got great potential (used wisely of course) - but the
interface and many of the reporting options are not geered towards
delivering the information that you might expect (indeed demand).
Jon
Of Jesper Tverskov
-----Oprindelig meddelelse-----
Fra: w3c-wai-ig-request@w3.org [mailto:w3c-wai-ig-request@w3.org] P? vegne
af Geoff Deering
Sendt: 31. marts 2004 05:03
Til: WAI Interest Group
Emne: Validator with check for Privacy Policy
Hi,
I saw some sort of validator a while back that also checked the site had a
privacy policy. Can anyone please refresh my failing memory on this?
Geoff
You are probably thinking of http://www.w3.org/P3P/validator.html
- Tina Holmboe Greytower Technologies
tina@greytower.net http://www.greytower.net/
[+46] 0708 557 905
Hello All:
First HiSoftware Validators that can test for specific and custom privacy
policies. Second this is not marketing - it is an answer re our products.
And there are tons of "Free" "No Strings" Stuff here :)
HiSoftware Online Tester: Exact Quality Requirements testing
Test for Privacy, Searchability, Accessibility, Etc.... Give it a spin it is
free :)
Something free (and good) from a P3P perspective (Free is good ;))
Download it try it out, learn about p3p and use it...It is Free.
AccVerify:
Will test for all the above and I believe the DS2 Series is the easiest to
use and "Still" The Most Powerful on the market.
Check out the DS2 Enhancements
Ease of Use: hmmmmmmmmm check it out a short video will also answer this
check out the interaction builder (part of AccVerify in Action)
Of Course AccMonitor will handle privacy:
Our Solution for Online Accessibility will handle privacy:
But With privacy and Accessibility as well I would suggest talking to one of
our experts on deciding what is best: 888.272.2484 or 1.603.229.3055. And
watch for my new book "Understanding Content and Site Quality" Due out from
HiSoftware Publishing in about 45 days
Cheers,
Rob Yonaitis
State of Indiana Selects HiSoftware Content Quality and Accessibility
Solutions : http://www.hisoftware.com/press/ia329.html
