Since Tidy is written in C as well, is integration of HTML Tidy with Amaya a
possibility. I do know that Tidy has moved to Sourceforge.
Brant Langer Gurganus
"The Computer Guru"
Webmaster:
Outgoing mail is certified Virus Free.
Checked by AVG anti-virus system (http://www.grisoft.com).
Version: 6.0.313 / Virus Database: 174 - Release Date: 1/2/2002
Do You Yahoo!?
Get your free @yahoo.com address at http://mail.yahoo.com
Certainly it is a possibility - the question is where to integrate it?
It would be useful to be able to run tidy over content that is imported into
Amaya. At the moment Amaya tries to do error correction on pages so it can
render them. It would be good if there were more detail available about what
it has changed, and if it was integrated it should be possible to use the
resources of the Amaya team for something else, and leave the development of
error correction to the Tidy project.
As an alternative, it might be useful to be able to run tidy over a source
view of a document.
In either case, maybe it should be possible to attach it via the
edit- transformations menu. It has some neat functions like removing font
tags and converting them to stylesheet rules that would be good to have in
Amaya (maybe this function could be attached via the styles menu seperately).
It might also be a good example of how to use Tidy in another program.
Note that Amaya produces valid output anyway.
cheers
Charles
Since Tidy is written in C as well, is integration of HTML Tidy with Amaya a
possibility. I do know that Tidy has moved to Sourceforge.
Brant Langer Gurganus
"The Computer Guru"
Webmaster:
Outgoing mail is certified Virus Free.
Checked by AVG anti-virus system (http://www.grisoft.com).
Version: 6.0.313 / Virus Database: 174 - Release Date: 1/2/2002
Location: 21 Mitchell street FOOTSCRAY Vic 3011, Australia
(or W3C INRIA, Route des Lucioles, BP 93, 06902 Sophia Antipolis Cedex, France)
I don't think a strong integration is necessary. As Amaya works always on
local
temporary files, these files can be processed by Tidy first. Any Amaya
contributor
can work on that integration. He has to add the launching of Tidy at the right
time.
But that will generate some problems because in this case the document
displayed by
Amaya won't be the original document. Errors will be fixed without feedback
and the document tree will be altered so existing and new generated annotations
will be broken.
I don't think a strong integration is necessary. As Amaya works always on
local temporary files, these files can be processed by Tidy first. Any
Amaya contributor can work on that integration. He has to add the
launching of Tidy at the right time. But that will generate some problems
because in this case the document displayed by Amaya won't be the
original document. Errors will be fixed without feedback and the document
tree will be altered so existing and new generated annotations will be
broken.
The lack of feedback is why it would be good to have a strong integration
mechanism. Doing it through the transformations makes sense because there is
already a mechanism for altering the document - the necessity is to add a
mechanism for feedback during transformations.
It would be good to have this mechanism to also allow contributors to add
(for example) the ability to use an XSLT processor on a fragment of a
document (up to and including the whole document).
(I think this is related to the ability to launch a "helper application" -
for example to play flash - if necessary in a seperate application (like Lynx
does).
Cheers
Charles
