Thanks all for not being nasty about pointing out my error. When I said
Exchange Server, I actually meant Win2000 IIS V.5 Server. Frankly, I try to
avoid Microsoft except at work. (I think the Exchange Server must just be for e-
mail and associated services) Just to give you some backround I am a pharmacist
but have taught myself quite a bit about linux, java, expect, basic html. I
have interests in timesaving through automation of programs, electronic medical
records, and preservation of intellectual property for web documents.
At any rate, I believe David Woolley answered my question entirely. I searched
the web and found some indication that there might be a non-microsoft solution
to the NTLM problem but didn't research it further. Our web administrator had
an option to use a different authentification but chose not to, probably for
the reasons David mentioned:
jmeyer@moscow.com Date: Fri, 26 Apr 2002 15:45:03 +0100 Subject: RE: MS
Exchange Server
If it is using NTLM authentication, you are locked
into IE; not even Netscape supports that.
In that case, get it reconfigured for Basic
Authentication, but note that clear text equivalent
passwords will go over the LAN.
David Woolley
BTS Holdings Limited
This message was sent by First Step Internet.
Amaya supports digest authentication I believe. As far as I know it doesn't
support SSL, although I think that support is available in libwww - the
library it uses for transport stuff.
chaals
Note that you can avoid clear text passwords by using Digest
Authentication, or (probably better supported) SSL aka HTTPS.
These are Internet standards, unlike the proprietary and buggy NTLM.
Hope that helps,
Andrew Pam
Location: 21 Mitchell street FOOTSCRAY Vic 3011, Australia
(or W3C INRIA, Route des Lucioles, BP 93, 06902 Sophia Antipolis Cedex, France)
Note that you can avoid clear text passwords by using Digest
Authentication, or (probably better supported) SSL aka HTTPS.
These are Internet standards, unlike the proprietary and buggy NTLM.
Hope that helps,
Andrew Pam
P.O. Box 477, Blackburn VIC 3130 AustraliaPhone +61 401 258 915
