FYI, comments appreciated.
Thanks,
--David
David L. Black, Senior Technologist
EMC Corporation, 176 South St., Hopkinton, MA 01748
black_david@emc.com Mobile: +1 (978) 394-7754
Behalf Of Internet-Drafts@ietf.org
A New Internet-Draft is available from the on-line Internet-Drafts
directories.
Title: URI Scheme for SNMP
Author(s): D. Black, K. McCloghrie
Filename: draft-black-snmp-uri-02.txt
Pages: 11
SNMP and the Internet-Standard Management Framework are widely
used for management of communication devices, creating needs to
specify SNMP access (including access to SNMP MIB object
instances) from non-SNMP management environments. For example,
when out-of-band IP management is used via a separate management
interface (e.g., for a device that does not support in-band IP
access), there is a need for a uniform way to indicate how to
contact the device for management. URLs fit this need well, as
they allow a single text string to indicate a management access
communication endpoint for a wide variety of IP-based protocols.
This document defines a simple URI scheme so that SNMP can be
designated as the protocol used for management. This scheme also
allows URI specification of individual MIB object instances.
A URL for this Internet-Draft is:
To remove yourself from the IETF Announcement list, send a message to
ietf-announce-request with the word unsubscribe in the body of the message.
Internet-Drafts are also available by anonymous FTP. Login with the username
"anonymous" and a password of your e-mail address. After logging in,
type "cd internet-drafts" and then
"get draft-black-snmp-uri-02.txt".
A list of Internet-Drafts directories can be found in
or ftp://ftp.ietf.org/ietf/1shadow-sites.txt
Internet-Drafts can also be obtained by e-mail.
Send a message to:
mailserv@ietf.org.
In the body type:
"FILE /internet-drafts/draft-black-snmp-uri-02.txt".
NOTE:The mail server at ietf.org can return the document in
MIME-encoded form by using the "mpack" utility. To use this
feature, insert the command "ENCODING mime" before the "FILE"
command. To decode the response(s), you will need "munpack" or
a MIME-compliant mail reader. Different MIME-compliant mail readers
exhibit different behavior, especially when dealing with
"multipart" MIME messages (i.e. documents which have been split
up into multiple messages), so check your local documentation on
how to manipulate these messages.
Below is the data which will enable a MIME compliant mail reader
implementation to automatically retrieve the ASCII version of the
Internet-Draft.
Although the syntax of snmp_URI allows text string context in the authority
part of the URI, RFC2396bis doesn't allow text string context in there.
It looks controversial to me on "[ ";" [engine ":"] context ]" in the
snmp_URI syntax.
Can someone tell about this?
Regards,
Shigeru Aoki
Engineering &amp; Technology Div.,
TFM Co., LTD.
Tokyo, JAPAN.
On
message.
username
Am 06.02.2004 um 17:00 schrieb Shigeru Aoki:
Correct. RFC 2396 did allow it, but 2396bis does no longer. The proposed
snmp URI scheme looks almost like a hierarchical uri, but as you noted
it
differs significantly.
I'm in no way fluent on SNMP, but it would seem prudent to either go the
"opaque way" and use another character than '/' for separating
components,
or go the "hierarchical" way and shift the engine/context parts into the
path part of the uri.
One simple way could be the usage of query parameter or always treat
the first two path segments as engine/context identifier with a defined
constant for default values.
//Stefan
It is noted in the "draft-black-snmp-uri-02.txt" that
"The encoding rules specified in [RFC 2396] and [RFC 2732] apply to SNMP
URIs, ....".
Is this draft valid as long as it refers to the RFC2396?
(It is assumed that the RFC2396bis will have different
RFC number in the future, not overwrite the current RFC2396.)
Should the draft reflect the RFC2396bis syntax instead of RFC2396 otherwise?
***Shig***
