Hi all
To pre-sort the mails I receive, my mailbox automatically sorts mail on
their origin. For maillists, I have a mailbox per list. Some mails from the
amaya list end up in my amaya-mailbox but about the same number of mails
arive in my inbox. Currently the filter for amaya is on www-amaya@w3.org in
the header. What should be changed or added to recognize all mails from
Amaya? If there is no such thing, can the mail list server be adapted to
include a recognition thing?
For other maillists either the address of the maillist is in the to: or cc:
fields or there is a keyword in the subject.
Thanks,
CBee
Corn? Beerse
talkto:+31(71)5256660
Hi,
if it uses www-amaya@w3.org it should work. Otherwise, try other headers:
X-Loop: www-amaya@w3.org
Resent-From: www-amaya@w3.org
(Does this question really belongs to this list? It should go to the
mailing list of the filtering tool that you use :)
-jose
List-Id: www-amaya.w3.org
A lot of Mailing Lists put this header into the header. New Mozillas are
able to filter for it (and any other header).
Sascha ?SCommmodore? Claus no mail copies, please
The best argument against democracy is a five-minute conversation with
the average voter. (Sir Winston Leonard Spencer "Winnie" Churchill)
I am using pine and filter on
Sender pattern = www-amaya-request@w3.org
which has not missed any mail from this e-mail
list.
dan
Yes, Jose -
I thinmk this question DOES belong on this list ... I can filter to my
heart's content, but if s.t. is showing in my "in-box / new mail folder"
I'd REALLY lkike to KNOW that it is from this list and not just more
SPAM !
My preference would be for the server to add
[amaya] to the subject line ... but sometime ago Irene said that was
NOT an option .... maybe it is, NOW ?
Michael 8^)
in Cochabamba
Date forwarded: Mon, 25 Feb 2002 06:00:47 -0500 (EST)
Date sent: Mon, 25 Feb 2002 12:00:11 +0100
From: Jose Kahan jose.kahan@w3.org
Copies to: "'amaya'" www-amaya@w3.org
Send reply to: jose.kahan@w3.org
Subject: Re: How to recoginze mails from the amaya maillist
Forwarded by: www-amaya@w3.org
Hi,
if it uses www-amaya@www.org it should work. Otherwise, try other headers:
X-Loop: www-amaya@w3.org
Resent-From: www-amaya@w3.org
(Does this question really belongs to this list? It should go to the
mailing list of the filtering tool that you use :)
-jose
