Is it intended that Amaya (and by extension, Thot) is to be developed
publicly - i.e. by those not of the core (W3C) team? I have found no
statement on development strategy on w3.org.
I have yet to find a low-cost graphical browser available for Linux that
I consider satisfactory in use. However, Amaya is the closest I have come
to that and I am willing to spend time on Amaya's development to bring it
up to scratch.
Whether or not Amaya is to be openly developed, anonymous CVS (or similar)
access to the Amaya source would be useful. This would allow
incremental source downloads, reducing download cost and load on your
server. Is such access available?
Ewan Mellor.
Hello Ewan,
In our previous episode, E.E. Mellor said:
You're right. We don't have such statement yet, but one of our goals for
this year is to open up our CVS base.
Up to now, only the core W3C team has read/write access to the Amaya
CVS base. Whenever we get contributions, we evaluate and integrate them
ourselves. Indirect contributions make their way inside Amaya by means
of the libraries (e.g., libwww, jpeg, png, ...) which Amaya uses.
Sounds good. What is your wish list of things to improve?
I'd suggest you try to coordinate with the Amaya team to avoid the
duplication of work. Feel free to contact any of us.
We're starting work on opening our Amaya CVS base to the public.
In a first time, it'll have world read-only access. This should take place
in one or two months. Depending on the response and on the quality of
contributions, we may open a write access to other people afterwards.
Cheers,
-Jose
For me, it is very unstable. I've yet to spend time figuring out what the
problem is, but I get "Thot: Unrecoverable error" a great deal. This
seems to happen a lot when switching from browsing locally to browsing
externally. It also seems to happen when I have been browsing a few pages
to which Amaya does not like the syntax (lots of "Unexpected end tag" and
"Thot tool kit error: element does not match DTD"). I would like to
investigate that first and foremost.
Secondly, I would like to bring Amaya's MathML display up to scratch.
There are features missing - it would be nice if Amaya supported content
tags, but I see that that could be a long job and I am not in such a rush
for those. I have had trouble using mfenced open="|" or mfenced
open="&amp;VerticalBar;" . What I want is for the expression to have vertical
bars around it, indicating modulus or determinant. No matter what I
tried, bars were not displayed. In fact, nothing was displayed. I would
like to investigate this also.
Other things to do with the maths display could be better. For example,
the expression
a
y = - -
b
tends to be rendered so that the minus sign is connected to the line of
the fraction, making the two indistinguishable often. This should be a
very easy thing to fix.
Also annoying are the missing entities, especially when they could
easily be mapped to similar glyphs if the appropriate one is unavailable;
I seem to remember having problems with "prime" in the past, and I think
&amp;it; was coming out as an integral sign instead of "InvisibleTimes". I
would be able to fix these as and when I came across them.
A problem I have is that, being a student, I am often very busy for
weeks at a time. I would not like to put my name to a particular feature
or bug-fix, as I could never guarantee when I would have time to work on
it. I would prefer to be a "fringe" developer most of the time,
submitting only small patches when I run across a little problem (such as
the entities mentioned above). I will of course co-ordinate with others
before I undertake large bug-fixes or add new features.
My machine is available for testing; I could use pre-release versions of
Amaya in my day-to-day work without the unstability being too much of a
problem. CVS access would be useful here, as I could easily follow
development quite closely.
The read-only access is exactly what I was after. This would be great.
I shall soon be getting the latest (1.4?) release, at which point I shall
see if the stability has improved. I shall then see what time I have
available to offer for development (I get my timetable today :-).
Many thanks,
Ewan Mellor.
How about an "Amayazilla" development model where the core W3 Amaya team
becomes the management, coordination and design control team and leverages
the talents of a lot of motivated programmers?
I really don't think i'd like an unrestrained public access to the Amaya
CVS tree. Submissions need to be tested and evaluated against design goals
etc.
Sign me up to work on the languages of Thot - i've done some thinking about
them in particular! One notion I have would remove any platform dependence
on things like Yacc and Lex to build them (also increase speed).
Sincerely,
Dave LeBlanc
I agree completely (although I'm not sure I like the name, since I'm
running away from Netscape :-)
The CVS tree should definitely be read-only as far as the general public
are concerned; I think that's what Jos? was proposing anyway. It would
also greatly help me - I now have the prospect of the second 4Mb download
in three days, in order to move from 1.4 to 1.4a. This seems a little
daft, to say the least.
Ewan.
In-reply-to: Your message of Wed, 13 Jan 1999 15:34:06 +0000."
Ok. Now you can download only diffs. See http://www.w3.org/Amaya/User/SourceDis
t.html
Thanks a lot to Arnaud Le Hors who has provided a script to generate diff
files.
Regards
Irene.
