Graduated degrees of "contract-ness":
* A choreography as a technical contract, as in Design By Contract.
* A choreography as an agreement between business partners as to how
they will conduct electronic commerce.
* A choreography for how business partners will form legally binding
contracts.
* A choreography referenced in an economic contract, for example a
yearly supply chain replenishment contract, governing electronic
transactions under the contract.
* A choreography referenced in an economic contract applying financial
penalties for failure to fulfill commitments.
Each graduation increases the legal implications of the choreography.
And probably the number of lawyers involved.
E.g. see UNECE Recommended Electronic Commerce Agreement:
It specifies lots of rules for how to conduct a legally binding
offer-acceptance transaction.
That's precisely the point. The choreography should be referenced by the
economic contract and that would render it legally binding. There's no
need for the choreography to reference the economic contract, the
economic contract is all the evidence you need.
arkin
"Those who can, do; those who can't, make screenshots"
Assaf Arkin arkin@intalio.com
Intalio Inc. www.intalio.com
The Business Process Management Company (650) 577 4700
This message is intended only for the use of the Addressee and
may contain information that is PRIVILEGED and CONFIDENTIAL.
If you are not the intended recipient, dissemination of this
communication is prohibited. If you have received this communication
in error, please erase all copies of the message and its attachments
and notify us immediately.
I like this graduatedness. I can certainly see how my usecase that
involved various
execution venues could draft their SLA's in this way.
Cheers
Steve T
This email is confidential and may be protected by legal privilege. If you are not the intended recipient, please do not copy or disclose its content but delete the email and contact the sender immediately. Whilst we run antivirus software on all internet emails we are not liable for any loss or damage. The recipient is advised to run their own antivirus software.
financial
the
Another point: In these situations,
the choreography itself has legal significance.
Did we, or did we not, form a legally binding contract?
Were the penalties applied fairly?
A comparison of the choreography rules and execution log
may be necessary to answer legal questions.
Execution logs and choreography rules will become legal evidence.
Couldn't agree more. Remember that on Wall Street and in all of the
financial capitals of the world compliance is now a number one priority.
If one can show that a trade's lifecyle has been correctly applied then
compliance is in part answered. If we could show that a lifecyle was
followed
according to specification from a regulator (bi-simulation if you will)
then we get full compliance as part and parcel of the choreography and
supporting
tools.
I can easily provide real usecases where this is required.
Cheers
Steve T
This email is confidential and may be protected by legal privilege. If you are not the intended recipient, please do not copy or disclose its content but delete the email and contact the sender immediately. Whilst we run antivirus software on all internet emails we are not liable for any loss or damage. The recipient is advised to run their own antivirus software.
Sorry, I may have ment what I said but I didn't say exactly what I ment.
What I ment to say is that the economic contract is all the evidence you
need that the choreography is legally binding.
Of course you'll need to present the choreography itself and execution
log, also expect to present e-mails, snailmail and phone call logs
related to any escalation of the issue, whatever it takes to prove that
things did not execute accordingly and where they went wrong.
Probably you would sue someone because they didn't send you the product
or in turn their payment didn't clear your bank, not because they failed
to send an advance shipping notice or an invoice. What are the
requirements for you to prove that a product was not delivered or a
payment was not made? Can you use the same rule to prove for example
that a message was not sent or is there something extra we need to do?
arkin
mm1: And a reference back to the context of the economic agreement that
binds the interactions.
Again the question here: is this necessary?
If under the contract I'm obliged to send someone a package do I need
the FedEx slip to reference the contract? If under the contract I issue
an invoice demanding payment, does the invoice need to reference the
contract? Why would a choreography definition be any difference?
This is just not my understanding of how the legal system works and so I
don't see why back referencing is necessary in a court of law or even
arbitration. Time to bring in the legal guns and see if they consider it
an issue ;-)
arkin
Assaf Arkin:
product
failed
You can't prove a negative. You can claim that goods or money
was not received and the respondent can rebut with message logs.
You can claim that a payment was late, especially if it was electronic
and you have a good timestamp.
Or say that an economic contract contains two commitments:
1. a commitment to deliver some goods by a particular time, and
2. a commitment to pay a penalty for late delivery.
Evidence that the supplier agreed to both of those commitments
would be necessary to claim the penalty.
Probably the more business protocols get automated,
and good evidence is available, the less people will sue,
and the more they will fulfill their commitments.
A public record of commitment-fulfillment could also become
a basis for a reputation system.
Catching up on some emails ...
This whole thread about contracts and how choreographies relate to them is
interesting, but I also don't think it is particularly relevant to the work
of this group ... maybe I'm wrong.
WHY CONTRACTS ARE NOT RELEVANT
The basic idea behind any contract is that there is an exchange of "value"
(as in the economic contract). E.g you will provide the goods if I give you
the money.
However there can also be an agreement or contract surrounding the exchange
of "value", the complexity of which can vary. For example, it can be simple:
you give $0.25c to a street vendor in the expectation that they will provide
you with the news paper you requested; to complex: where you specify exactly
what the goods or service will be, how they will be delivered, when they
will be delivered, who will deliver them, what the remedies are if something
goes wrong, etc, etc.
So in some contracts "how the service is delivered" could include reference
to the choreography definition used, although this is but *one* of many
other factors that can describe the "how".
You can also choreography definitions can exist without a contract. For
example, the fact you can have the architectural plans for building a house
doesn't mean that anyone is committed to building the house for you. On the
other hand, any reasonable house building contract will always reference the
architectural plans to be used. You could even get multiple house building
contracts that reference the same building plans.
So really I see a choreography definition as something that a contract would
use, rather than the other way round, so as long as we include ways by which
a contract definition be referenced by a contract, probably by requiring
that each definition is identified with a URI, then that is all we need to
be able to do.
Assaf also mentions whether you need to reference the contract in the
contract in the FedEx slip. The answer is probably no because of the many
different ways in which business can get done which usually leads to a
degree of indirection between the documents used in every day business and
the legal agreements that go with them. Here are a few examples ...
IMPLICIT TERMS CONTRACT
An individual goes along to FedEx and asks them to ship some goods.
Typically in doing this you will get a receipt which tells you where you can
get the FedEx published terms of use, or perhaps there is a sign displayed
on the wall. By paying the amount and FedEx accepting the goods for
delivery, the individual is implicitly accepting those published terms.
Also the terms usually say that they can be changed from time to time,
therefore it is important to know when the transactions were entered into to
work out excactly agreement was in force.
Either way, there is no need to reference the terms on any of the
documentation.
CALL-OFF CONTRACT
Perhaps FedEx is providing a logistics service to deliver goods. In this
case there will be a one-off contract which, if it is sensible will include
things like price as well as service-levels etc that apply.
In this case, determining the contract that applies to any shipment only
needs to know who the parties involved are and the date and time, again
there is no need to identify the contract by number.
ONE-OFF CONTRACT
You might also have an individual contract that applies to an Order or a set
of Orders. In this case, the Order would reference the Contract, and the
Invoice, Shipment Notice, etc would reference the Order and therefore,
indirectly the Contract.
These comments are based on I've work done on developing business documents
such as xCBL [1].
David
PS My wife's a lawyer which means of course that I have to say that nobody
should rely on anything contained in this email ;)
[1] http://www.xcbl.org
Again the question here: is this necessary?
If under the contract I'm obliged to send someone a package do I need
the FedEx slip to reference the contract? If under the contract I issue
an invoice demanding payment, does the invoice need to reference the
contract? Why would a choreography definition be any difference?
This is just not my understanding of how the legal system works and so I
don't see why back referencing is necessary in a court of law or even
arbitration. Time to bring in the legal guns and see if they consider it
an issue ;-)
arkin
