Dears,
I'm a Web Consultant and Macromedia User Group Leader.
My group are developing one solution for visual impaired and
blindness. The project still on start. The solution consist on
three steps:
1) Localization
Every site wich support blindness must create and put a
blindness version of site at:
2) At home page one audio / visual pin sign this site has
a blindness support, this audio /visual pin links to
3) Take a look of complete release (english and Portuguese)
and a live example, and leave a comment / suggestion on our
project forum.
please use "guest" as login and password.
On release you will found some comment about
DOSVox , this is a solution developed here on Brasil
to read and allow writing blindness persons. With
this resources blindness persons help us on the
project.
This first idea was developed before official SMIL
release, now I think this sollution must addapted to
SMIL.
Please let me know what you think about this, if you
aggree, disagree. If you found consistence or not.
If there was some visual impaired on this mailing list
let us know your comment, it's much important to
the project.
Finnaly, the project is free and we will share the solution
with tutorial to anybody.
With best regards,
Joao Carlos Rebello Caribe
Coordenador Geral do Flash Brasil
Macromedia User Group Leader - RJ
I would prefer the whole site be accessible, not just a segregated
segment or separate set of pages. My fear for your approach is that
different versions get out of synchronization.
That is more inclusive than requiring the selection of a text-only
version on each page. I expect that user preferences will be
adequately provided through behaviors, that can be used to tailor
what a server delivers to the user agent's expressed desire.
From my limited experience with shockwave over a year ago, it made heavy
use of graphics, particularly for glitzy dynamic textual material.
I hope but do not know that you only use it to demo the alternative
accessible material. I am unwilling to use or arbitrarily allow a
shockwave tool onto my system. Your site requires it, so is therefore
inaccessible to me.
Regards/Harvey Bingham
Yuri Rubinsky Insight Foundation
Interesting idea. It could be helpful for people with low vision, but
requiring people who are fully blind to randomly move a mouse around in
hopes of hitting a link or some text is a bit impractical.
How would a blind person know if they had found all of the info or
whether there is more info they have missed on the screen -- or worse
yet OFF the screen if the window needs to be scrolled down? If a blind
user finds a link once but searches to see what else is on the screen,
how long will it take to find a link the second time -- assuming the
user can remember what it was?
Is there a thorough, practical keyboard access method I missed?
Good luck. Keep working on it.
-- Paul
You have a very good project. I am glad that their are companies finally
researching how to implement such things. Your approach seems a bit
lacking, though. Isolating users to their own section of the web is not a
reasonable solution. Segregating blind users from the rest of the
population is a rather thoughtless approach. How would a blind user find
the proposed button to click it? Forcing a user to use a mouse is not a
good solution. A keyboard is much more friendly to a blind user, as the
keys don't move around. What about a blind user with a mobility problem
whom cannot use a mouse? A keyboard or voice input would be essential.
This seems like a very backward solution to the problem. Rather than
reinvent the wheel, why not utilize the W3C's research and expertise in this
area. Why not write a browser/editor that uses the very well designed
methods already in place rather than a hunt and peck method to make current
browsers work, as proposed? The proposal looks like it would be extremely
unfriendly and confusing to anyone, especially someone with a visual
impairment or blindness. It may be better than nothing. But, look what
they could have if the web was designed using the W3C's proposals and a bit
of research. Everyone could access every document without the need for
different versions.
We need better editor/browser software. And, we need to educate designers.
(Both of which are being addressed by the W3C, as I understand.) Those are
the only real solutions that I see. We can design a million ways to make
things better. But, it is useless if there is no software that properly
supports it, and, there is no one to teach designers how to use it.
,David Norris
World Wide Web - http://www.geocities.com/CapeCanaveral/Lab/1652/
Illusionary Web - http://illusionary.dyn.ml.org/ -- 02:00 - 10:00 GMT
Video/Audio Phone - callto:illusionary.dyn.ml.org
Page via mail - 412039@pager.mirabilis.com
ICQ Universal Internet Number - 412039
E-Mail - kg9ae@geocities.com
Behalf Of Joao Caribe
But I want _all_ my pages to "support blindness" (odd phrasing
but I realize English is not your first language), not just an
extra version of my site at /blindness/.
The pages at http://www.yourdomain.com/ should support universal
access -- transparently, too!
Kynn Bartlett kynn@hwg.org
Vice President, Marketing and Outreach, HTML Writers Guild
Education &amp; Outreach working group member, Web Accessibility Initiative
