What about opening a help window?
Is it possible for a browser to detect the use of a screen reader? Or
other assistive technology?
If it could, wouldn't it make life easier for designers? An alternative
text description of such things as help windows (or complex images like
maps) could be sent to the screen reader in place of the object. Could
Javascript be used to open a help window, or, alternatively, send some
text to the screen reader if one is detected?
.j
PS :: Coincidence? Have been looking at Atutor today and forwarded
information to a friend.
Not that we are aware of (except maybe HPR). We generally avoid using
browser detectors, and make sites universal to begin with. An AT
detector would be nice though.
greg
Greg it should not be necessary, the whole point is that AT users get the
same information as a sighted/'normal' user, which can be accomplished using
the existing guidelines.
Out of curiosity I have noticed netscape mentioned a few times, does anyone
actually still use that? Personally I only check pages in IE (yeuch) Opera
(bleh) and Mozilla Firebird (yay) - ok I am a little biased :-P
David
I totally agree that both AT user and others should receive the same
information. But that does not mean I can't present that information in
two different interfaces. An AT detector would be great for this
purpose. There is no reason why I can not present my information to you
in an all text format, with text navigation etc, if you are using a
screen reader, and present it in a graphic rich format if you are a
person who prefers a visual display.
I'm not talking browser detector BTW. We never browser detect, but AT
detecting could be very useful, for applying preference settings for
example. See the IMS ACCLIP specifications, or the preset accessibility
settings in ATutor, for example . Same information, different interface
element depending on how the reader prefers information to be presented.
greg
Uhmm... how about this thing called CSS? Separate function/information from
display...
Re: AT detecting. Most "generalized" AT applications operate at the OS
level. JAWS (and I believe Window Eyes) use Internet Explorer for web
access, even Homepage Reader uses the IE rendering agent. How would you
detect somebody using a braille output device? Then there is the whole
mobility impairment side... how exactly do you propose "testing" for
somebody using "sip and puff" tools, or voice recognition software? (I know
of a quadriplegic who exclusively uses Dragon Dictate/Dragon Naturally
Speaking).
Nope, Universal Accessibility should not depend on alternate streams...
you're heading into a mess of tangled pages when you go down that road...
JF
John Foliot foliot@wats.ca
Web Accessibility Specialist / Co-founder of WATS.ca
Web Accessibility Testing and Services
From: Paul Davis [mailto:paul@ten-20.com]
Now then did I hear in some vague way the whisper CSS?????!!!!
Are you suggesting that CSS should be used to determine the UA behaviour
when certain links are activated ?
Patrick
Patrick H. Lauke
Webmaster / University of Salford
