Paul Grosso sent me an XMLspec comment in private correspondence this week,
and it started what we thought was an interesting discussion.
The issue was whether a copyright element should be added to the DTD, so
that a copyright statement could be supplied in fairly "cooked" form so
that it would appear in the various outputs. I suggested that a stylesheet
might be able to output the copyright statement, if it were pretty much
boilerplate.
Paul then asked (I copy with his permission):
Is a document properly copyrighted if the copyright is only
in it stylesheet?
I post .xml and .htm files for the XML Fragment spec. Is
the .xml file on the public W3C server properly copyrighted
if the copyright statement is only in the .fos file on my
laptop?
I think I better re-instate my request for a copyright block.
Currently, I'm putting the copyright info in the ultimate
paragraph of the status section, but it would be nice to
have a real block for it, and I don't think removing the
copyright from the .xml file entirely is a good idea.
I responded:
This is an issue that I've dealt with with several customers, and it also
came up in the old OSF thing. Sometimes it's not just copyright
statements, but other legal-related statements too. Here are the options
as I see them (and they're not mutually exclusive):
- Put copyright statements in the "source code" a la program code, usually
in comments. This protects the source.
- Arrange to output copyright statements in the various outputs, thus
protecting each output. This can be done by each stylesheet, or by a
combination of source markup/content and markup (e.g. DocBook's Copyright
element, with Year and Holder subelements, with the c symbol being output
by the stylesheet), or by "pure" source markup/content that gets output
straightforwardly.
Given that XML can function as both source and output, I could see having a
fairly transparent copyright block in there. However, it can never be
guaranteed that a stylesheet won't suppress, mangle, or reverse the meaning
of (!) source content...
Does anyone have an opinion about what should happen in XMLspec, or have
comments about this issue in general?
Eve
I haven't thought it all through, but here's one
thing I know: *DON'T* omit the copyright statement
from the source, assuming it'll get put in by the
stylesheet.
Also: *DON'T* treat the copyright stuff as a boilerplate
issue. THINK HARD about it, every time you share
a copy with anybody, if not every time you hit the
save button.
See also: the W3C IPR notice
and the related FAQ
Dan Connolly, W3C
Fair enough. The source should be protected, so it needs (I would think) a
"cooked" copyright statement -- all necessary text present and accounted
for in the flesh. I can add an element for this.
The problem would come in if you wanted to ensure that each form of output
is protected; I don't think you can. Even if you have an element with the
copyright statement in it, you can never guarantee that it will be
displayed, or displayed without harmful further processing.
Eve
