Hi folks-- I'm going to do a quick update of the XML spec DTD over the next
day or so. I've collected comments from private mail and from this list,
and here's what I'm planning to do to for this revision:
- Check the order of prevlocs and latestloc (again); possibly make
them allowed in either order
- Switch to full HTML 4.0 table model, allowing "table" as an
alternative name to the obsolescent "htable"
- Fix the mdash, ldquo, and rdquo entity definitions
- Add the "namespace constraint" element? (Tim, let me know if you
think I should add this to the main DTD; for now, I'm inclined to
continue treating this as a customization layer, especially since
it only applies to a single specification)
There have been other, bigger suggestions for additions and modifications,
but I think I need to get these out pretty soon, so we'll see what develops
afterwards. Let me know if you know of any other little things that need
fixing.
Thanks,
Eve
Hmm, really we should've had a constraint type=, hindsight
is so clear. Personally, I *hate* having different DTDs for
different specs. But you have a point.
Actually, I was thinking that I should just add a generic "constraint" (and
"constraint note") and then you could use the role attribute to say the
type. I think I will add this; if you wish, you can then change your
namespace constraint elements over to this.
Now that the DTD is parameterized, it is relatively reasonable to have
"different" DTDs for different specs -- each can have a small customization
layer that meets its needs.
Eve
Good idea. And adds a bit of future-proofing.
Well, for the record, this is a relatively small family of docs, and I
think it'd be worth the effort to stay with a single DTD until there's
a really good reason to split. But you're the expert in this area. -Tim
From: Tim Bray tbray@textuality.com
The DOM specs don't need WFC or VC, and the XML specs certainly don't
need all the IDL markup that we use to generate the Java and ECMA
Script bindings. Not to mention all the small differences like
whether email addresses of editors are required or optional...
Lauren
Despite good agruments mentioned in Lauren's follow up to this, I do tend
to agree with Tim here. It would be really nice to have one DTD rather
than customization layers insofar as possible. It just makes setup and
style files and interchange and all so much easier.
That would certainly be best for the DOM editors, but then wouldn't other
WG's would have to deal with Gavin's API specification tags, that no one
other than the DOM WG has any need for?
Would this noticeably inconvenience anyone?
Hard to see how.. -T.
Why? If an author doesn't need a tag, s/he doesn't have to use it.
We've all been doing this stuff for over a decade--I don't see any
inconvenience.
The only overhead of "extra tags" is in DTD maintenance and possible
tool support. Since the same tools will probably be used by all the
working groups, the support effort is required--and will probably be
easier if there is only one DTD.
As far as DTD maintenance is concerned, one could argue both ways,
but I would think having one DTD shared among a fairly small set of
WGs--especially if managed by Eve--is still well within the limits
of tractable and any overhead is outweighed by other benefits.
The key benefit is being able to take any XML-related spec and read
it using *the* DTD/stylesheet/whatever you've already set up without
having to futz around all over the Web finding the right customization
layer and twiddling stylesheets/scripts/whatever.
