Regarding the document at
* "The URI syntax is organized hierarchically, with components listed in
decreasing order from left to right."
Should "in decreasing order" be "in order of decreasing significance"?
* "If data for a URI component would conflict with the reserved purpose,
then the conflicting data must be escaped (Section 2.4) before forming the
URI."
Shouldn't "escaped" be "encoded"?
Doesn't "escaping" refer to the characters that actually appear, and
doesn't "encoding" refer to what is represented, especialy if it doesn't
actually appear?
(An escape character "escapes" from the normal meaning of a following
character. The special meaning of the escaped character may be to
_encode_ some third character.
- In the Unix shell input "echo \$PATH", the dollar sign is escaped
by the backslash. (The backslash escapes from the normal meaning
of the dollar sign (encoding a "command" to subsitite a variable)
to a special meaning (encoding an actual dollar sign character).)
- In C, in the escape sequence "\7", the backslash changes the
meaning of the character "7" in the source from representing the
character "7" (in the compiled code) to representing (encoding) a
BEL character.
- Similarly, in URIs, the escape sequence "%20" _encodes_ a space.
The space isn't _escaped_. (It's not like the escaped spaces in
"ls file\ with\ space".)
- "...extends...to the first question-mark ("?"), number-sign ("#"), or
the end of the URI string."
probably should be:
"...extends...to the first question-mark ("?") or number-sign ("#")
or the end of the URI string."
(Also, there are several similar non-parallel sentences.)
- This:
...the URI mailto:fred@example.com has...
would be less ambiguous if it were written with standard English
quoting, as:
...the URI "mailto:fred@example.com" has...
- "URI generating applications"
should be
"URI-generating applications"
Daniel
okay.
Probably. I have replaced it everywhere with "percent-encoding" as
part of yet another rewrite of the characters section.
Your suggestion looks like bad grammar to me. Is this an obscure rule?
Then it wouldn't be a fine example of the recommended quoting.
Done.
....Roy
...-encoding" as
Looking at it now, my suggestion probably could be clarified, but no,
I don't think the principal of parallel construction is obscure.
If you distribute "extends" over your "or" (like distributing
multiplication over addition as in A x ( B + C ) = A x B + A x C),
your wording:
extends...to the first question-mark ("?"), number-sign ("#"), or
the end of the URI string."
yields:
- extends to the first question mark
or
- extends to the first number sign
or
- extends to the first the end of the URI string.
Note how that third branch comes out malformed. (In addition, note
the reference to the _first_ end of the string, which doesn't
make sense, confirming that one of your "ors" got grouped wrong.)
You want the distributed version to be:
- extends to the first question mark
or
- extends to the first number sign
or
- extends to the end of the URI string.
That can be "factored" as:
...extends to the first question mark or number sign or to the end
of the URI string
(clearer than my original suggestion) or as:
...extends to the first question mark or number sign or the end of
the URI string
(my original suggestion, admittedly probably less clear). (Of
course, other "factorings" are possible.)
(P.S. "Number sign" and "question mark" aren't hyphenated (in
English...at least in American English...at least in American English
I know).)
Daniel
Daniel Barclay said:
A comma:
...extends to the first question mark or number sign, or to the end
of the URI string
makes this much easier to parse.
Internet Expert | Home: clive@davros.org | *** NOTE CHANGE ***
Thus plc | | Mobile: +44 7973 377646
Yes, that makes it much clearer.
Daniel
I wrote it that way in the two other places it is described, so thanks
for pointing out the odd one.
....Roy
