I've added this issue to the discussion on the RDF Thesaurus wiki page
Here is a summary:-
Issue 1 - Specialised vocab vs. extensible modular vocabs?
Although most thesauri are pretty similar, there are important variations,
and many thesauri deviate from the standards. Also, thesauri are very
similar to other KOS e.g. classification schemes, taxonomis, topic maps. How
do we cope with this?
Option 1 - Define a specialised vocabulary that covers only thesauri that
comply with the standards.
Option 2 - Define a core vocab that captures what is common to all thesauri.
Then define extension modules to cope with different flavours of thesauri.
Option 3 - Define a core vocab that captures what is common to all KOS
(thesauri, taxonomies, classification schemes, topic maps etc.). Define
first level extension module for thesauri. Define second level extension for
flavours.
=== Comments on Issue 1 ===
AJM
What we did previously ( [WWW]early draft of 8.1
http://www.w3c.rl.ac.uk/SWAD/deliv81.htm ) was half way between (1) and
(2).
I would like to go for (3), but am prepared to backtrack towards (2), which
may happen when we hit interop with this and OWL. (3) Would mean we have a
way of fitting all these KOS together on the semantic web, which would be a
good thing.
Going for (3) means we have to define a core vocab. I've kind of assumed
this is what we are doing (tell me if you think it's a bad idea), and issues
below relate first to this core vocab. We need a name for this core vocab,
so at least we can refer to it. For now, I'm going to call it the core
vocab. In code, I'm using the prefix soks. Why soks? Short for SuperKOS! Got
any ideas about a better name?
CCLRC - Rutherford Appleton Laboratory
Building R1 Room 1.60
Fermi Avenue
Chilton
Didcot
Oxfordshire OX11 0QX
United Kingdom
Hi,
I can't access the Wiki at the moment, and in any case don't know how you want
comments, so I'll stick to email.
By KOS do you mean "Knowledge Organization Scheme"?
What does that cover? Are you including ontologies in there?
If the answer to the last question is "yes" then I suggest avoiding 3. A common
core for all different thesaurus and ontology schemes is in danger of being so
generic as to be little more than raw RDF(S).
Dave
Yup, sorry the Wiki is down again. We had some load problems
(bad code in MoinMoin python; it loaded a huge log file on
each pageview) which are now fixed. However the machine crashed
for as yet undetermined reasons recently. Possibly because it
has a miniscule amount of RAM (will have 1G soon). I had expected
it to be back up by now, should be ok later today I'd guess.
Am investigating.
Sorry for the inconvenience...
Dan
Hi Alistair
(just got back from holiday - wiki looks good btw)
Dave asked:
I'm still fuzzy on what we mean by ontologies. My understanding of
ontologies for the semantic web is that one of their key utilities will be
to provide a kind of umbrella 'knowledge representation' layer into which
well developed, existent thesauri/other KOS's may be federated at key
points. That is as well as ontologies being developed independently for
classifying resources as per the requirements of specific user communities
I guess. So that ontologies are very good for describing 'things' and
relationships between things - which is great for describing resources on
the network, &amp; the relationship of those resources to each other and also
real-world "things". So, ontologies are to provide us with rigorous and
consistently applied resource description for the web, in contrast to the
ways that thesauri/other KOS's often use inconstent/differing notions of
subsumption, for example, in representing knowledge?
I'm waffling here &amp; would like to invite someone to clarify things for me!
Back to Alistair's issues:
As regards the options 1 2 &amp; 3 you have stated for Design Issue 1:
- I think option 1 is out because it is pretty restricted in scope, given
that there are many legacy &amp; evolving KOS' that will be usefully employed
in the semantic web.
- I understand your dilemma between option 2 &amp; 3 to be whether to keep WP8
thesauri-centric, or whether to start at a more generic place and work on
from there, extending the core vocabulary specifically for thesauri &amp; also
the range of other existent KOS's (also permitting the ease of integration
with ontologies).
I see Andy's argument about the dangers of straining to be as generic as
possible.
I kind of feel I need an analysis of what problems Option 2 would create
w.r.t. trying to map thesauri to other KOS's &amp; ontologies using a WP8 core
vocabulary. i.e. what do taxonomies, classification schemes, topic maps
etc. use in their representation that we would be lacking if we stick to a
core vocabulary centred on thesauri only?
I'll need to do some more reading around this issue ...
Regards
Nikki
(soks is cool with me btw)
NJ Rogers, Technical Researcher
(Semantic Web Applications Developer)
Institute for Learning and Research Technology (ILRT)
