I was reading
where Jonathan proposes closing 5.13
by creating a mime type registration for OWL.
[Speaking for myself, not RDF Core.]
It seems the key aspect that it is recording is the entailment
parameter which has a small set of fixed values:
simple, RDFS, lite, DL, full (latter being the default)
I was wondering several things:
* Is this not limiting to the users - how easy is it to create a
MIME TYPE parameter in a document (I'm thinking of the HTTP-Equiv
meta you have to use in the HTMl family)
* A fixed list of values seems odd to me from a semantic web
architecture point of view - don't we use URI(-ref)s?
* Your list assumes these parameter values are distinct and
complete; surely there are more subtle relationships between them
that would have to be put in this registration document?
* If this is of such general utility would it be better to just add
this to the RDF mime type draft? Seems occam's razor applies.
* If this is such a key requirement, wouldn't it be better to add
it to the OWL abstract syntax, and consequently the RDF/XML, such
as a parameter off rdf:RDF ? I was told in personal
communication that crawlers for some of this data use
namespaces, file name suffixes to try to guess the appropriate
semantics. Surely we can do better than that?
It would seem to benefit from being several layers higher than
(HTTP say) Content Type parameter
Content Type
Transfer Protocol
File name suffixes, (looking for .owl etc.)
abstract syntax
being at the
concrete syntax
level where users have more control and can put it in the files
directly.
I'm not even sure how you'd enable people to generate all 5 types
of entailment on one system using common tools such as apache -
you'd need five filename suffixes. And which one would be .owl ?
* Of course if it was put in rdf:RDF , the default would have to
be RDF entailments, so that would mean OWL would have some more
boilerplate in the header.
This seems more of a brain dump since this is only a proposal by
Jonathan.
Cheers
Dave
I said:
I worded that poorly, sorry. I meant to say, my comments are more of
a brain dump of points that occurred to me on the idea rather than as
a general comment on the document itself.
Dave
e-for-OWL
To be honest, I wrote those down as parsed from an email by Dan Connolly --
and the entailment parameter just occured to me -- i.e. this is probably a
half baked idea that I've posted for discussion.
Indeed, this would be a better idea. e.g. application/owl+xml;
entailment=http://example.org/OWL#DL
My idea is that each value of the entailment parameter might license
distinct entailments e.g.
ex:foo rdfs:range owl:Class .
ex:bar ex:foo ex:baz .
simple:
= nothing new
RDFS
=
ex:baz rdf:type owl:Class .
lite, DL:
= error, classes can't be instances
full:
=
ex:baz rdf:type owl:Class .
Not a document under our control.
Surely and media types are limited, not a perfect means to indicate
semantics, particularly when any or combinations of several semantics might
apply, but this is (just) a media type registration, not part of OWL syntax.
On the other hand, this is not to say that a similar parameter off rdf:RDF
would not also be useful.
well, perhaps .rdf, .rdfs, .owll, .owldl, .owl ...
Thanks, to be honest, I'm not sure that this is the solution to the problem
of how to deal with the various possibilities of which entailments are
licensed according to which part of the various specs, but this is a
proposal on the table.
Jonathan
