-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA1
I coded html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
xml:lang="de" as valid
XHTML 1.1 requires.
XHTML uses the xml:lang attribute, but also supports the lang
attribute of HTML4.01 and previous, and this should be used as well
for backwards-compatibility (although in the case of a conflict
browsers should respect xml:lang over lang). Ergo:
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: PGPfreeware 6.5.3 for non-commercial use http://www.pgp.com
iQA/AwUBPCC9lYFpv9f1Mr0YEQKbBwCg2yxNN+mzkXxvAvm5Nw5APwCz8cAAnj48
2I40VcMSFyFEnoCYe0BP/BTG
=0OqR
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
I coded html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="de" as valid
XHTML 1.1 requires.
But updated Bobby says: "accessibility error" , do this:
Did I do something wrong? Or is Bobby not really updated to the latest
specs?
Check the XHTML 1.0 spec's Compatability Guidelines With HTML Browsers
section. I believe they recommend using both xml:lang and lang --
because nearly all browsers fail to understand xml:lang attributes.
Since assistive technology is included in that group, it's correct of
Bobby to identify this as an accessibility error.
In general, you should only use XHTML _without_ following the HTML
compatability rules if you know that every browser accessing the
service will understand "native" XHTML. There are few browsers which
do this and even fewer ATs (if any), so native XHTML 1.0 is not
recommended. (Nor is XHTML 1.1 for that matter.)
--Kynn
Kynn Bartlett kynn@idyllmtn.com http://kynn.com
Chief Technologist, Idyll Mountain http://idyllmtn.com
Web Accessibility Expert-for-hire http://kynn.com/resume
January Web Accessibility eCourse http://kynn.com/+d201
Chas. replies:
Can you give me specific accessibility problems caused by switching to
xml:lang? On what browser or AT does the lang attribute make a
difference? In fact, can you give us a specific list of which
browsers/ATs have problems with which XHTML elements/attributes and how
this affects accessibility? Why is XHTML strict or 1.1 a problem for
accessibility? Specifics please.
Also, with the exception of the xml:lang attribute, what is in "native"
XHTML that isn't in "native" HTML? What part of "native" XHTML isn't
understood by browsers/ATs?
Thanks.
Charles F. Munat
Seattle, Washington
Native XHTML is the term I used for XHTML which is written without
regard for the HTML backwards-compatibility suggestions given in
the appendix of the XHTML 1.0 spec:
XHTML 1.0 is not fully backwards-compatible with HTML or with HTML
browsers, nor is it intended to be. That is why the spec makes specific
recommendations for compatibility -- such as writing br/ as
br / .
--Kynn
Kynn Bartlett kynn@idyllmtn.com http://kynn.com
Chief Technologist, Idyll Mountain http://idyllmtn.com
Web Accessibility Expert-for-hire http://kynn.com/resume
January Web Accessibility eCourse http://kynn.com/+d201
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA1
But see the changes below: the lang attribute has been totally
removed in
XHTML 1.1 and so not valid XHTML 1.1
The guidelines 11.2 say don't use attributes that are
depreciated...so Bobby does not apply to the guidelines???
Agreed, but there is a balance to be struck between avoiding
deprecated elements and attributes and backwards compatibility.
Purely from the point of view of accessibility it would seem that
more immediate real-world problems could stem from the absence of the
lang attribute than from its presence, and there is a good argument
for staying with the 1.0 standard for the time being.
This is not to say that long-term it's a good idea to continue its
use (after all we want it to die some time), or that accessibility is
the only criteria on which to make these decisions, but I think Bobby
is justified in penalising the absence of lang, although perhaps it
should give a warning explaining the two sides of the decision as to
whether it should be used, rather than an error.
Count yourself lucky, the people on this list working with SVG
recently found themselves forced to use embed !
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: PGPfreeware 6.5.3 for non-commercial use http://www.pgp.com
iQA/AwUBPCDfT4Fpv9f1Mr0YEQIL7gCgnaFNh6P+xNDI9M9ubLmULukLSkkAoKq9
fc4pQFvE89XIZJ1nScB2/1xE
=JjGb
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
Hello All,
I coded html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="de" as valid
XHTML 1.1 requires.
But updated Bobby says: "accessibility error" , do this:
The HTML element at the beginning of each page should use the HTML 4.0
"lang" attribute to help specify the main language of the text on the page,
such as English, French, German, Japanese, etc.
The value of the LANG attribute must be set to one of the ISO 639 language
codes
Did I do something wrong? Or is Bobby not really updated to the latest
specs?
I thought XHTML 1.1 requires the tag xml:lang=".." to specify the language
of the document.
Does anybody have thoughts about it?
Thanks in advance
Greetings
Ineke van der Maat
Hello Jon,
Thank you for your answer.
But see the changes below: the lang attribute has been totally removed in
XHTML 1.1 and so not valid XHTML 1.1
The guidelines 11.2 say don't use attributes that are depreciated...so
Bobby does not apply to the guidelines???
A. Changes from XHTML 1.0 Strict
This appendix is informative.
This Appendix describes the differences between XHTML 1.1 and XHTML 1.0
Strict. XHTML 1.1 represents a departure from both HTML 4 and XHTML 1.0.
Most significant is the removal of features that were deprecated. In
general, the strategy is to define a markup language that is rich in
structural functionality, but that relies upon style sheets for
presentation.
The differences can be summarized as follows:
On every element, the lang attribute has been removed in favor of the
xml:lang attribute (as defined in [XHTMLMOD]).
Cheers
Ineke
Thanks, Kynn, but you haven't answered my questions. I'm aware of the
issues regarding backwards-compatibility. If you'll reread my original
email, you'll see that I asked several specific questions. If you don't
have the answers, no problem -- just say so, and I'll look elsewhere for
them. But if you do know of specific problems -- not "compatibility
issues" but specific accessibility problems caused by XHTML 1.1 -- could
you please post them?
Note that most of the compatibility recommendations -- such as using br
/ instead of br/ -- are perfectly valid XHTML, so they do not inhibit
the use of valid XHTML 1.1 or XHTML 1.0 Strict.
You've said that we should not use the latest XHTML. The W3C is
recommending that we do. I'd really like to know what evidence you can
provide to support your point of view.
Thanks!
Chas.
Where are they recommending that we do?
--Kynn
Kynn Bartlett kynn@idyllmtn.com http://kynn.com
Chief Technologist, Idyll Mountain http://idyllmtn.com
Web Accessibility Expert-for-hire http://kynn.com/resume
January Web Accessibility eCourse http://kynn.com/+d201
Okay, fine, if everything on these blasted lists is going to turn
into some sort of stupid competition to show "who's right" and an
amateur debating forum for people who don't get out of the house
enough -- fine, I will CONCEDE DEFEAT. YOU WIN, YOU MACHO MAN.
Now, I expect you to prove that every assistive technology that
supports lang="fr" (for example) also supports xml:lang="fr".
If you can't do that, then you're just full of crap, Charles. Feel
free to tell the world that XHTML 1.1, in non-compatibility-with-
HTML-browser mode, is fully accessible, and I'll just find something
better to do than argue with you on the asinine terms you (and
others) set.
Really. No wonder this mailing list is less than useful most of
the time.
--Kynn, really should be jobhunting
Kynn Bartlett kynn@idyllmtn.com http://kynn.com
Chief Technologist, Idyll Mountain http://idyllmtn.com
Web Accessibility Expert-for-hire http://kynn.com/resume
January Web Accessibility eCourse http://kynn.com/+d201
Good question. On checking the W3C's HTML page, I see that the newest
version does not mention which type of HTML is recommended. So I went
back into the archives because I do remember XHTML 1.0 being
recommended. I found such a page here:
Evidently the page changed sometime around the time that XHTML 1.1 was
released. It is not clear now (on a brief reading of their page) exactly
what they are recommending. Still, I think it is a safe assumption that
they do not intend XHTML 1.1 and 2.0 to be used solely on intranets. And
I doubt that they've released them now assuming that the recommendations
would just sit around for a few years until browsers caught up. In fact,
there don't seem to be any clear and obvious warnings against using
XHTML 1.1 (or 1.0 Strict).
But this is really beside the point. You still haven't explained what
specific accessibility problems result from using XHTML 1.1. Since I'm
using 1.1 on my current sites, I really need to know this information.
Can you provide it?
Thanks again.
Chas.
Holy cow. What on earth are you talking about?
I didn't make any claim that XHTML 1.1 was perfectly accessible. After
reading your post, I'm worried that it isn't. I just wanted to know if
you had any specifics. One obvious one that I can think of is that you
can't use the name attribute. It doesn't affect my sites much, but I
wonder about the ramifications of that. As for lang, I wasn't aware that
any browsers were really putting it to much use yet. It'd be nice to
know for sure.
Sorry if you got the wrong impression. Forget I asked. Good luck on the
job hunt.
Chas.
P.S. My wife will really enjoy the "macho man" comment. I've been
telling her that I'm really macho for a long time, but she refuses to
believe me. Finally: proof!
