I wonder if a CSS layout can be done while keeping the original
logical order of the content.
Yes, I believe so. This, like the others, is held together with luck
and hairpins, and is untested, but it might do what you ask. (I wasn't
sure which logical order or linear stream made the most sense.)
Seems to come out OK with NS4.0 and Lynx - I assume also with IE. Anyway,
it makes sense. If this is tested with a screen reader and a CSS browser
what happens?
And does anyone know how many screen readers are out there, particularly
those which have trouble with tables?
Charles McCathieNevile
I've looked at Susan's Lesch's versions of the W3C
home page.
My conclusion: Tables are dead. CSS now.
I am using Windows 3.1 with low resolution
(about 600 pixels wide.)
Both Netscape 4.05 and Explorer4.01 render
almost identical layout, and look great.
and in my view both are easier to read than
the actual W3C page.
The right column becomes very dense in the W3C site,
where in Lesch's pages it appears well.
I find the design with unordered lists more appealing.
An interesting point is that the logical order of things
is different in Lesch's pages than in the W3C.
In W3C the right column (starting with "User Interface") comes
right after the latest new article, where in Lesch's
design it comes last.
I wonder if a CSS layout can be done while keeping the
original logical order of the content.
Nir Dagan
Assistant Professor of Economics
Universitat Pompeu Fabra
Barcelona (Spain)
Well, unless CSS can provide the same layout capability than table,
and keep the same reading order when turned off, it's hard to
say.
That's my point.
W3C's home page layout design is 2 major columns with 2 sub-columns in
the left major column; the right major column is the table of content
into the domain activities and the left column contains 3 zones: a
lead story cell starting with our logo, 2 background info sub-columns,
and some trailer text (not to mention a bunch of margins)
ascii art, that gives something like:
lead story lead story domain column
lead story lead story domain column
lead story lead story domain column
lead story lead story domain column
domain column
----------------------- domain column
domain column
background background domain column
background background domain column
background background domain column
background background domain column
background background domain column
background background domain column
domain column
trailer trailer trailer domain column
trailer trailer trailer domain column
trailer trailer trailer
and the reading order is:
lead story
domain column
background
trailer
Is that doable with today CSS implementation ?
I don't think so, but maybe I'm wrong, I haven't spent much time on
it.
