Hi Jonathan,
If you are asking " Is the WAI looking at how pages can be made more
accessible to children in general?"
Then I think the answer would be that that is out of scope. Our charge is
limited to looking at issues that cause accessibility problems for people
with disabilities (of all ages) but not problems that have to do with
children in general, or different languages, or mobile computer users etc.
That having been said, there are many of our recommendations that would make
it easier for children or people using different languages or mobile
computer users to access the web. We like to point those out wherever
possible because they add additional incentive for technologies that
"Transform Gracefully". But we don't have efforts or guidelines targeted
specifically at solving problems that are not related to accessibility. I
believe that would be called mission creep and would be outside of our
charter in WAI.
Let me know if I misread you message.
Gregg
Gregg C Vanderheiden Ph.D.
Professor - Human Factors
Dept of Ind. Engr. - U of Wis.
Director - Trace R &amp; D Center
Gv@trace.wisc.edu, http://trace.wisc.edu/
For a list of our listserves send "lists" to listproc@trace.wisc.edu
Behalf Of Jonathan Chetwynd
In replying privately to a query, it came to my attention that whilst
cognitive disability occupies me professionally, having a three year old
daughter also is a concern.
Surely we must recognise that children require significantly different
material?
What efforts is wai making to meets this need?
As it is likely that currently these pages would need to be in a separate
area, does this not answer the "one size fits all" personalized web page?
query?
jay@peepo.com
Jonathan Chetwynd
Special needs teacher / web accessibility consultant
education and outreach working group member, web accessibility initiative,
W3C
Text needs to be written for a reader.
The WAI site is written for a technical reader.
If we wish to stimulate mass market interest,
the site needs to meet the needs of this audience.
One way, is to demonstrate good accessibility, as well as write about it.
This means that it is important that visitors are not intimidated when they
visit the site.
The site has huge amounts of text most of which are irrelevant to any
particular enquiry.
Today i have a problem, http://www.peepo.com/accessible/bett/ does not
validate http://validator.w3.org/ due to an error in the way the keyword
'name' is being used.
However I cannot find out why.
I'd like to recommend that a set of simple pages with good accessible code
and well commented be posted.
How do we know if the code works in a given browser, surely that is part of
accessible?
I found that 'id' if simply replacing 'name' does not work with netscape.
A simple example would be a great help, and I recommend that code segments
work as a minimum with netscape, msie, and are w3 validated. It is just not
that easy.
It is more than a little important that we define and publish regularly,
what we mean by 'accessibility', it is certainly a moving goal.
Epilogue:
An indication of the current awareness of WAI and its intentions is
The website http://www.education-net.co.uk/ for the UK's premier education
and technology show.
It failed to provide a title or alt tags.
Thank you for taking the time to offer your comments and feedback on the
BETT website. We are constantly striving to update and improve our website
and I welcome your comments on accessibility for those with learning
difficulties or special needs. As an exhibition which caters for this very
important branch of education, to have a website which doesn't is simply not
acceptable. I will forward your comments to our web developers and will
make every effort to ensure that appropriate actions are undertaken for the
BETT 2001 website.
BETT has ~40 stalls for special needs ~5% of the total.
jay@peepo.com
Jonathan Chetwynd
Special needs teacher / web accessibility consultant
education and outreach working group member, web accessibility initiative,
W3C
Jonathan,
W3C recognizes the general need for less technical materials
for the general public. This applies not just to WAI but to all
of the work we do. We are looking for technical writers (although
we don't yet have the job descriptions ready) for this type of
work.
The Accessibility Notes (on SMIL, CSS, and HTML, and upcoming
on XML and SVG) are a step in this direction.
I suspect that this discussion belongs on EO, so I am adding them
to the thread. I am also cc'ing your comments to the W3C
Communications Team.
Thank you,
- Ian
Ian Jacobs (jacobs@w3.org) http://www.w3.org/People/Jacobs
Cell: +1 917 450-8783
