Privacy *is* going to be addressed by the WSA. It is not currently had
a huge amount of progress since this was posted at the beginning the
May.
Frank
Frank,
In looking at this privacy draft, I have a few comments and/or questions:
* Does this not define a potential dependency for choreography - for
privacy and identity (such as federated network identity, and work
in other sections like Liberty)?
* If so, is it within our scope to expand on this and/or provide
input to WSA?
* This may also involve quality of service. Has this been considered?
* Other mechanisms exist beside WS-Policy such as WS-PolicyLanguage
which is already within a standards body (OASIS, XACML I believe).
Perhaps as we continue these discussions, we can early on identify what
is within our scope or findings we need to pass to other groups/entities.
Thanks.
My initial take was that it was out of scope.
Maintainence of privacy policies and preferences is especially important
when interacting with a service or a choreography that forwards requests
to other services, which may not be visible (a facade or composition
pattern).
There are proposals that address this. For example, the combination of
SAML + XACML can convey security and access information across multiple
web service interactions. IBM &amp; Microsoft have also outlined a proposed
WS-Privacy spec, which I don't think has been published yet.
IMO the mechanisms for this are below the choreography level but we may
want to include a note indicating that such technologies exist, or are
emerging, and that there are cases where they are needed to meet privacy
requirements.
I think the previous discussion of privacy in the list has more to do
with hiding information about interactions themselves (not necessarily
the data content of interactions), which is a different set of issues.
--Jon
A couple of points here.
1) Yes, Privacy use cases and requirements have been addressed
as part of WSA Requirements. If there are special privacy
requirements that need to be addressed for choreographed
message exchanges then we should coordinate that with WSA.
Francis discussion w.r.t. privacy context is interesting
and extends the privacy discussions currently captured
in WSA.
2) Federated identity management certainly intersects with
Liberty as well other WS Security specifications. E.g.,
OASIS WSS, recently made public WS-Federation spec from
Microsoft and IBM.
3) Eventually, I see that WS-I will have to take up the work
to develop interoperability profiles for securing
choreographed message exchanges although in the short-run
the expectation is that they will produce some basic
security profiles for transport and message level security
using SSL/TLS and OASIS WSS.
(See http://news.com.com/2100-1012-994938.html )
Zahid Ahmed
Web Services Architect
eBay, Inc.
Frank,
In looking at this privacy draft, I have a few comments and/or questions:
* Does this not define a potential dependency for choreography - for
privacy and identity (such as federated network identity, and work
in other sections like Liberty)?
* If so, is it within our scope to expand on this and/or provide
input to WSA?
* This may also involve quality of service. Has this been considered?
* Other mechanisms exist beside WS-Policy such as WS-PolicyLanguage
which is already within a standards body (OASIS, XACML I believe).
Perhaps as we continue these discussions, we can early on identify what
is within our scope or findings we need to pass to other groups/entities.
Thanks.
