Hi ,
We are implementing a server for DeltaV , there are conflicts among couple of groups here about the design of the Server.
One Group believes that since DeltaV is a versioning extension of WebDAV the relationship in terms of OOAD is "is Kind Of" (Inheritance) , hence the Implementation of DeltaV should extend from already implemented WebDAV server.
While the other group believes that the DeltaV is a "Component" (not to be taken literally) of WebDAV i.e WebDAV can be made "versionable" using DeltaV or by simply "activating" DeltaV Implementation Code .... and hence DeltaV should be treated seperately.
I would like to know the relationship between DeltaV and WebDAV in terms of OOP/OOAD.
I would be highly grateful , if anyone could get back to me with his/her views as soon as possible.
Best Regards,
Vikram
Do you Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Web Hosting - establish your business online
Vikram,
In protocol design, generally we attempt to avoid specific OOP or OOAD
models. It's up to the server implementor to decide how to implement a
protocol, and they may not even be using an object-oriented programming
language.
Good luck resolving your conflicts!
Lisa
[mailto:ietf-dav-versioning-request@w3.org] On Behalf Of Vikram
Roopchand
Hi ,
We are implementing a server for DeltaV , there are conflicts
among couple of groups here about the design of the Server.
One Group believes that since DeltaV is a versioning extension of WebDAV
the relationship in terms of OOAD is "is Kind Of" (Inheritance) , hence
the Implementation of DeltaV should extend from already implemented
WebDAV server.
While the other group believes that the DeltaV is a "Component" (not to
be taken literally) of WebDAV i.e WebDAV can be made "versionable"
using DeltaV or by simply "activating" DeltaV Implementation Code ....
and hence DeltaV should be treated seperately.
I would like to know the relationship between DeltaV and WebDAV in terms
of OOP/OOAD.
I would be highly grateful , if anyone could get back to me with his/her
views as soon as possible.
Best Regards,
Vikram
Do you Yahoo!?
Yahoo! http://webhosting.yahoo.com/ps/wh3/prod/ Web Hosting -
establish your business online
In OO terms, DeltaV and WebDAV are interface definitions, not
implementations. DeltaV extends WebDAV both by introducing some new
sub-interfaces of Resource (e.g. Activity and Version-History), but to make
things interesting, for interoperability with existing clients, DeltaV also
introduces some new *super-interfaces* that extend existing WebDAV classes
(e.g. Resource and Collection) with new versioning methods.
But you asked how an existing WebDAV server implementation should be
extended to provide DeltaV support. That depends totally on how your
existing WebDAV server is implemented, and to some extent, on what the
implementation language is for your WebDAV server. So that leaves you with
the very unsatisfying answer: "It depends" (:-).
Cheers,
Geoff
Hi ,
We are implementing a server for DeltaV , there are conflicts among
couple of groups here about the design of the Server.
One Group believes that since DeltaV is a versioning extension of WebDAV the
relationship in terms of OOAD is "is Kind Of" (Inheritance) , hence the
Implementation of DeltaV should extend from already implemented WebDAV
server.
While the other group believes that the DeltaV is a "Component" (not to be
taken literally) of WebDAV i.e WebDAV can be made "versionable" using
DeltaV or by simply "activating" DeltaV Implementation Code .... and hence
DeltaV should be treated seperately.
I would like to know the relationship between DeltaV and WebDAV in terms of
OOP/OOAD.
I would be highly grateful , if anyone could get back to me with his/her
views as soon as possible.
Best Regards,
Vikram
Do you Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Web Hosting - establish your business online
