From: Bijan Parsia [mailto:bparsia@isr.umd.edu]
Sent: Friday, October 03, 2003 10:09 AM
Subject: Re: Proposed issue: What does using an URI require
of me and my
software?
Sorry for the delay in replying.
In-Reply-to Bijan's original
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-sw-meaning/2003Sep/
0054.html , clarifications.
- Use of an HTTP URI as a symbol in an RDF statement
refers to one thing which the URI owner intended.
So, this is broken out of the gate, right? I mean, why
"intended"? Did
you mean, "What the current URI owner current intends"? And what if
they intended it to refer to more than one thing? Why is the
one thing
important, anyway. (I tend to strongly agree with Pat on
this. And to
go further that I'd rather that the use of a URI mean what *I*, the
document author, intended it to mean.)
- The URI owner puts true, consistent, hum &amp;/or machine
readable information in the
document that you get should you chose to dereference the URI.
And this seems compatible with "And I assert other things about the
'one thing' that may or may not be consistent with what the
URI owner,
fool that they may be, sez about it. And I'm taking my 'may' rights
very seriously and not going to chose to dereference that URI."
I'm curious about exactly what each of you, or anyone else, envisions as the
problem scenarios here. Is it
1. An owner, A, defines a URI to have a meaning which some other author, B,
redefines or misinterprets to have a different meaning in his document, and
then a consumer, C, reading B's document mistakenly assumes that A's meaning
is intended.
2. An owner, A, defines a URI to have some meaning, and then B takes some
liberty with the use of the URI; maybe something along the lines of the use
of the word 'infinite' in the phrase 'infinite wisdom'. A mathemetician
might argue that this is an improper use of the word, but most of us don't
see it as a problem.
The reason I digress to these somewhat simple examples is that it seems to
me that once the tools evolve, these judgement calls will be made not by
computer scientists, but by businessmen, supervisors, etc. I suppose we
could build some kind of semantic consistency checker into the tools; MS
Word RDF/OWL Check?
Naively curious,
James
From: Bijan Parsia [mailto:bparsia@isr.umd.edu]
Sent: Friday, October 03, 2003 10:09 AM
Subject: Re: Proposed issue: What does using an URI require
of me and my
software?
Sorry for the delay in replying.
In-Reply-to Bijan's original??
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-sw-meaning/2003Sep/
0054.html , clarifications.
- Use of an HTTP URI as a symbol in an RDF statement
refers to one thing which the URI owner intended.
So, this is broken out of the gate, right? I mean, why
"intended"? Did?
you mean, "What the current URI owner current intends"? And what if?
they intended it to refer to more than one thing? Why is the
one thing?
important, anyway. (I tend to strongly agree with Pat on
this. And to?
go further that I'd rather that the use of a URI mean what *I*, the?
document author, intended it to mean.)
- The URI owner puts true, consistent, hum &amp;/or machine
readable information in the
document that you get should you chose to dereference the URI.
That isn't a well-enough-defined notion for this
to be an actual scenario. Lets agree to talk in
terms of things that really do have a crisp
operational meaning, like publishing an ontology.
A publishes an ontology AO which uses a URI owned by A.....
.... and B publishes another ontology BO which
uses A's URI ...to do what, exactly?
1. TO say something that could not be inferred
from AO alone? But that is going to happen all
the time: when I order a book, I say something
about the book that the bookstore didnt say, viz.
that I ordered it.
2. OR, did B say something in BO that A feels
does not reflect A's intentions when A published
AO? Well, that's an interesting case, but surely
we cannot expect B to be telepathic; B could
argue that A should have made A's intentions more
explicit when writing AO. In any case, this seems
clearly to require that A and B communicate in
ways that go outside the SW framework, so I
suggest that we just don't say much about this
other than maybe acknowledge that it could
possibly happen.
3. OR, did BO actually contradict AO (possibly,
when taken in conjunction with some background
assumptions mutually agreed by A and B, or by the
general assumptions of the culture, or whatever,
to be correct) ? Now, I think, we have a case
where we can get down to some details. If B
publishes something that contradicts what A
publishes, and if it uses A's vocabulary, then A
should feel entitled to claim that if C draws
some conclusions from BO, then C is
misunderstanding the intended meaning of A's URIs
in a way that might be called SW-egregious, and
we could reasonably require that such uses are
naughty. And there is some wriggle room here to
talk about assumed shared background assumptions,
and so on, which might in turn give some real
bite to this word "social": for example, any
imported ontologies would of course be required
to be relevant to the contradiction-detection
issue.
Draws a conclusion (validly, using extant SW
semantic specifications) which A does not
like.... or didn't think of .... or something (?)
I agree, but a liberty on the SW might be a
rather different category from a liberty in
English metaphors or poesy.
Not naive at all, right on the button. Like, what
problem are we setting out to solve here? What
might go wrong that our declarations of Policy
and Correct Architecture and so on are aiming to
prevent? I for one am completely unclear what the
issues are supposed to be that so concern us
here, and I am extremely worried that we will
make declarations based on mistaken ideas about
meaning rather than on any actual problems.
Rather than quarrel over the meaning of words
that have no exact meaning (like "meaning" for a
start) or that some of us think have exact
meanings but others think are meaningless (like
"resource"), why don't we try to get a bit more
precise about why we feel that something -
ANYTHING - needs to be said about this issue. If
nobody can point to anything that is likely to
break if we say nothing, then the best thing to
do is to agree to say nothing. And if they can,
then at least we will have some example scenarios
to help us focus discussion.
Right now, the only machine-detectable symptom
that something is wrong seems to be that an SW
reasoning engine might detect a contradiction,
perhaps using information which comes from
non-SW-ontology sources, perhaps using many other
kinds of background assumptions such as widely
used standard ontologies, whatever: but somehow a
contradiction is detected by a piece of software.
That is definitely a sign that something is
screwed up somewhere, or that two sources of SW
content disagree with one another. So maybe we
could restrict the discussion to the question:
what should an SW agent do when it finds a
contradiction? What protocols or guidelines can
we suggest for how to handle that situation?
Because as long as none of them do find any
contradictions, I think the SW will just kind of
work by itself, and what we say about "meanings"
will have about as much relevance to the actual
operation of the SW as farting.
Pat Hayes
IHMC(850)434 8903 or (650)494 3973 home
40 South Alcaniz St.(850)202 4416 office
FL 32501(850)291 0667 cell
phayes@ihmc.us http://www.ihmc.us/users/phayes
From: pat hayes [mailto:phayes@ihmc.us]
Sent: Friday, October 03, 2003 1:48 PM
Subject: RE: Proposed issue: What does using an URI require
of me and my
s oftware?
In-Reply-to Bijan's original??
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-sw-meaning/2003Sep/
0054.html , clarifications.
- Use of an HTTP URI as a symbol in an RDF statement
refers to one thing which the URI owner intended.
So, this is broken out of the gate, right? I mean, why
"intended"? Did?
you mean, "What the current URI owner current intends"?
And what if?
they intended it to refer to more than one thing? Why is the
one thing?
important, anyway. (I tend to strongly agree with Pat on
this. And to?
go further that I'd rather that the use of a URI mean
document author, intended it to mean.)
- The URI owner puts true, consistent, hum &amp;/or machine
readable information in the
document that you get should you chose to dereference the URI.
And this seems compatible with "And I assert other things
'may' rights?
very seriously and not going to chose to dereference that URI."
Ok. ACorp creates a acorp:uri123 which is a serial
number of one of its acorp:StandardWidget, which
is the product ID of its standard widget and has property
listPrice = $2.00 according to its ontology acorp:catalogue.
BCorp, thru their sw-agent, buys a batch of these including
acorp:uri123. Now BCorp turns around and sends the batch to
CCorp's sw-agent with an RDF invoice that states that
acorp:uri123 a ACorp:DeluxeWidget. CCorp can verify that
the list price of a ACorp:DeluxeWidget is $10.00 and happily
pays BCorp their asking price of $5.00.
Now the RDF invoice used two of ACorps URIs to
commit fraud. Those URIs belong to ACorp and it was never
ACorps intention that acorp:uri123 be called anything other
than a acorp:StandardWidget. How could ACorp make this
clear to CCorp? One solution would be to publish at
acorp:uri123 the statement, this is  a acorp:StandardWidget.
Note that this is a boring, trivial example. There is no
inference, semantic search, or other sw-interesting ideas
in it. I'm using it to point out that URIs have
social meanings that will become represented and
communicated by the Semantic Web.
From: "John Black" JohnBlack@deltek.com
Subject: RE: Proposed issue: What does using an URI require of me and my s oftware?
Date: Fri, 3 Oct 2003 15:11:47 -0400
BCorp lied. So what? Do you really expect the Semantic Web to prohibit
lying? CCorp accepted the information that BCorp gave it. Do you really
expect the Semantic Web to educate fools?
The issues are whether CCorp has to trust the information it gets from
BCorp and whether CCorp can determine whether BCorp is telling the truth.
In a situation where information about a URI need not be gathered from
``the standard place'' I don't see any reason why CCorp could not go to
``the standard place'' in ACorp's web site to determine whether the
information it is getting from from BCorp follows from the information
available from ACorp. I similarly don't see any reason (except for the
extremely limited expressive power of RDF) why CCorp could not determine
whether BCorp's information is inconsitent with ACorp's information.
CCorp is free to do this, or not.
All the above is in the most simple case, where one would expect that using
information consistently would be most desirable, yet there seems, to me,
no requirement that everyone has to use the same authoritative information.
There may be a cost to doing something else, but there also may be
benefits.
For example, suppose ACorp put up pricing information for its
widgets? How could anyone sell ACorp's widgets for a different price if
everyone had to use ACorp's information about its widgets?
Or suppose that ACorp created acorp:invoiceuri3.14159 which has all the
right stuff hanging off it to look like a valid invoice saying that ACorp
sent 1000 widgets to CCorp for the total price of $2000. If everyone has
to believe ACorp about its uris mean/denote then how can CCorp even tell
anyone that ACorp is lying? This information will have to use ACorp's URIs
and thus will be infected by ACorps lies.
Peter F. Patel-Schneider
OK, several observations.
First, as you say, this example has got nothing to do with the SW as
such: it is about error or maybe fraud, pure and simple. In fact it
has nothing to do with the Web at all. You could run it unchanged
without mentioning URIs; the only point is that ACorp used a name
with a declared meaning which was then misused by BCorp. What makes
this example have teeth is not that the name was a URI, but that
ACorp said it had a specific meaning in a commercial context, and
then the rest follows from general considerations of legal use,
publication, misrepresentation, etc. (and maybe copyright, for all I
know) which apply throughout human society. So I don't see what
relevance this has for our topic or why it is our business
particularly to say anything about it: in fact, since the relevant
social conventions here are ultimately determined by the courts, it
is kind of silly for us to even set out to make new law in this kind
of an area.
Second, if you were to elaborate the example a little so that a piece
of SW reasoning intervened in the connection: say, that BCorp had
published an ontology which asserted that ACorp:StandardWidget
rdfs:subClassOf ACorp:DeLuxeWidget, and then C had used this to come
to his own conclusions about prices, then it gets a bit more
interesting. We have discussed examples like this in the working
groups. I think that it is reasonable to say that in cases like this,
the SW reasoning processes are understood to *preserve* any intended
'meaning' that might otherwise, on general social/legal/whatever
grounds, be presumed to be associated with the terms used. So in
this case, C is not making any kind of SW *semantic* error in
presuming that his conclusion about the price of standard widgets
really does mean what it seems to mean, ie it really is talking about
those widgets and about real dollars. Now, of course, that is not to
say that it is *true*, only that the process of running an SW
reasoning engine doesn't as it were strip off any meaning that the
terms might be said to have had on other grounds. Or, to say the
same thing less obscurely and without using the M-word, any process
which uses the URI after it has been processed by a valid SW reasoner
should be able to treat the URI in the same way that it could have
been treated before it was processed by the reasoner. In this case,
of course, C has now been misled, and I think that the general
presumption about SW inference and the same general commercial/legal
considerations about publishing would have little trouble pinning the
blame for this misapprehension on B rather than on C or A; but that
isn't our concern. Our concern is only to ensure that BCorp's lawyers
can't mount an ingenious defense along the lines: an OWL reasoning
engine was used, so the conclusion only has a formal meaning, because
the OWL MT doesn't mention widgets or US dollars. I agree that would
be wrong; but the W3C Amicus Curae brief could point out that the MT
refers to entities, and widgets and dollars are both entities, so....
BTW, it would be reasonable, even in cases like this, to say that if
ACorp had been so sloppy as to publish an ontology that allowed
people like B to say things like this *without thereby causing an
inconsistency* then maybe they were partly liable for this mess, by
virtue of carelessness. They could have put out an OWL ontology which
explicitly said that the DeLuxes weren't Standard, and then any SW
agent worth its salt could have immediately spotted the problem with
B's ontology.
Third, a general point: in order to support all of the above, we need
to say very little. Most of it is implicit in the model theories
already published (not the details, just that general approach to
semantics.) We don't need to say anything weird or controversial,
such as that URIs have unique meanings, or that the meanings must be
determined by a unique ontology published by the owner, or that
properties mean more than names. All we need to do is to say that URI
meanings, in any sense of 'meaning' you care to use, are understood
to not be *changed* by drawing valid conclusions from ontologies, and
that if two ontologies contradict one another then normal
considerations should be used to try to determine which of them
should be believed more than the other, or is more suitably used than
the other for a given purpose (such as ordering widgets). (I don't
even think we need to say this, myself, but it would do no harm to
state the obvious.)
Fourth, your example is actually quite subtle when examined in
detail. If the service B is offering is, say, a retail outlet
serving a different clientele than the wholesale outlet provided by
A, then there may be no fraud or misrepresentation involved here,
only a different pricing structure. The world provides many such
examples. It is perhaps a little careless of B to use A's terms in
stating its own pricing, but I see no reason why we have to get
involved in meddling with social/commercial details like this, and I
certainly don't think that this is anything remotely like a matter of
SW *architecture*.
Pat Hayes
IHMC(850)434 8903 or (650)494 3973 home
40 South Alcaniz St.(850)202 4416 office
FL 32501(850)291 0667 cell
phayes@ihmc.us http://www.ihmc.us/users/phayes
Rather than quarrel over the meaning of words that have no exact meaning
(like "meaning" for a start) or that some of us think have exact meanings
but others think are meaningless (like "resource"), why don't we try to
get a bit more precise about why we feel that something - ANYTHING - needs
to be said about this issue. If nobody can point to anything that is
likely to break if we say nothing, then the best thing to do is to agree
to say nothing. And if they can, then at least we will have some example
scenarios to help us focus discussion.
A past point of contention has been the role of rdfs:comment in RDF.
Does it convey any kind of "meaning", or none at all?
#g
Graham Klyne
GK@NineByNine.org
[Graham Klyne:]
That's exactly the kind of question I would prefer that we try to
avoid. The only good answer is, yes and no. But I'd refer to respond
with another question: why does it matter what the answer is?
Pat
IHMC(850)434 8903 or (650)494 3973 home
40 South Alcaniz St.(850)202 4416 office
FL 32501(850)291 0667 cell
phayes@ihmc.us http://www.ihmc.us/users/phayes
Rather than quarrel over the meaning of words that have no exact meaning
(like "meaning" for a start) or that some of us think have exact
meanings but others think are meaningless (like "resource"), why don't
we try to get a bit more precise about why we feel that something -
ANYTHING - needs to be said about this issue. If nobody can point to
anything that is likely to break if we say nothing, then the best thing
to do is to agree to say nothing. And if they can, then at least we
will have some example scenarios to help us focus discussion.
Well, I don't know if it does or doesn't matter, but either way I'd really
quite like to have an inkling why. Maybe the answer to this question isn't
of any great importance, but I think the uncertainties that surround it are
a source of much confusion, which it would be good to diminish.
I guess that what I seek is greater clarity about what we can reasonably
aim to achieve using SWeb technologies, and what should be recognized as
falling into the windmills-to-be-tilted-at department.
I think the rdfs:comment is an interesting case because, say:
ex@a rdfs@comment ex:b .
may, according to the semantics of RDF as currently specified, be the
antecedent or conclusion of a non-trivial inference (not being a
proposition that is trivially true or false), yet which does not of itself
convey any meaning that is susceptible to deeper formal analysis. (Maybe
that's your "yes" and "no"?) My intuition is that better understanding the
ramifications of questions like this may help to reduce some of the
recurring unproductive exchanges which (it seems to me) lie at the heart of
why this topic was bounced to the SWCG for further analysis.
#g
Graham Klyne
GK@NineByNine.org
Le Vendredi, 3 octo 2003, ? 13:48 America/Montreal, pat hayes a ?crit :
- Because there will be abuse
- Because there will be naughty uses
- Because what SW is proposing now for knowledge definitions is of the
same order of what happened for example to photography when it becomes
accessible to the usual consumers or for the publishing industry with
the Web. Mass Democratization of knowledge building. It has very
interesting effects and perspectives.
Karl Dubost - http://www.w3.org/People/karl/
W3C Conformance Manager
*** Be Strict To Be Cool ***
