The misunderstanding of the Definition of REQUIRED comes up a lot on
this list so I thought I would put it out as a separate memo rather
than buried with another topic.
When we dropped to just two ratings - we looked at lots of options and
came up with REQUIRED and RECOMMENDED.
Perhaps they are not well chosen but here is how we came on them
1) The guidelines are just that, Guidelines, not requirements. There
is no certification of sites as accessible etc. Therefore we cannot
have REQUIRED guidelines. W3C does not have the authority to require
anything as I understand it. But we could say that doing this or that
was required for some users to be able to use the pages. So that is
what we did. So the definition of Required is
[Required]
Required, otherwise it will be impossible for one or more groups of
users to understand the page.
2) We then just used recommended for the second level - those things
that would make the page easier to use but are not required to make
the information accessible.
[Recommended]
Makes page easier to understand and use.
We have asked for comment on these definitions - but have not gotten
any that suggest other definitions or approaches. So we have
continued with this. (We dropped from 4 to 2 levels after
recommendations at the GL group meeting in Texas)
Sooooooo
Required does not mean that we require it. It means that it is a
fact that it is required if all users are to be able to access the
information on the page and understand it. All other
recommendations go into the recommended category, even if we think
they are very important.
As always, comments on other ways to approach this are welcome. I
think we need to have a factual base though for putting things into
the required category since we don't really have a mandate for
arbitrarily requiring things of web authors and we don't have a
certification process in place. RC group is looking at these
aspects.
Having said all this, I will say that this whole aspect is a bit
murky. If you try to apply things absolutely strictly you quickly end
up with lots of things that could go either way based on
interpretation.
So let us know what you think. Do these seem to work (mostly)?
Or is there a better approach.
Thanks Much
Gregg
For the Editors/Chairs
I'd just like to make it clear that I had no dispute with that
procedure as such; I was just worried that some of the remarks in the
guidelines _seemed_ to say (or might easily be misunderstood to be
saying) that this or that had the status of "required" in an HTML
specification, when the intention had been only to say that they are
considered "required" in the context of the guidelines.
I was only trying to suggest some minor rewording of the relevant
sentences to clarify that - nothing more.
I didn't see a major problem at all. Just a couple of issues - one,
the possibility for misunderstanding, and the other that there was a
section that had ended up containing a contradiction.
In the 0414 version, the various amendments seem to me to have
produced an entirely reasonable compromise that has avoided these
eariler problems.
(The guideline document still fails HTML validation though, for
reasons that could easily be corrected.)
I would encourage people to take a look at which of the WAI
guidelines the latest version of Bobby supports:
The table gives a good indication, whether REQUIRED or RECOMMENDED
in the current guidelines, what ultimately can be REQUIRED
without some sort of human analysis of the HTML.
Josh Krieger
CAST
