I think we should sensitize/encourage everyone within an organization to
help others who make web pages to be aware of the accessibility requirements.
Regards/Harvey
Hi Harvey,
Are you thinking we should add something more explicit under the 'provide
opportunity for feedback' point in the implementation plan, to recommend
that the feedback options be available internally as well as for external
users of Web sites?
- Judy
Judy Brewer jbrewer@w3.org +1.617.258.9741 http://www.w3.org/WAI
Director, Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI), World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)
MIT/LCS Room NE43-355, 200 Technology Square, Cambridge, MA, 02139, USA
Yes, company personnel should be sensitized to accessibility issues,
whether or not they are web page designers/creators. Education for
them as knowledgeable and interested employees who want the best
external presence (and for that matter intranet presence) seems a given,
though currently many only report content errors, not accessibility ones.
We can build on the desire for voice browsers as needed by phone browsers,
and the need to convert visual sites for that delivery mode.
Regard/Harvey
Hi Judy, Harvey, all,
I agree with Harvey that all staff in an organization should have at least
some mechanism for giving feedback on the accessibility of the
organization's web site. In order to do that effectively, all staff need
sensitizing to the basics of web site accessibility or at least an overview
(or three or four) on why this is a good idea.
I would have had trouble at some points in bringing web accessibility to
ALA if I hadn't had the insights and involvement of staff from Customer
Service, HR, Publications and couple of other units. We were able to pool
our knowledge of our customers and not play "Blind Men and the Elephant"
quite so often. That is, we could see our customers more as a whole
organization, not just from the viewpoint of IT or Customer Service or one
of the eleven divisions or eleven offices.
Audrey
On Thursday, December 13, 2001 7:48 AM, Harvey Bingham
'provide
external
browsers,
to
I think it is also really important that wherever the general feedback about
the site comes to, the people who are looking after accessibility have ready
access to it or get it automatically (according to workflow preferences,
etc).
cheers
Charles
Hi Judy, Harvey, all,
I agree with Harvey that all staff in an organization should have at least
some mechanism for giving feedback on the accessibility of the
organization's web site. In order to do that effectively, all staff need
sensitizing to the basics of web site accessibility or at least an overview
(or three or four) on why this is a good idea.
