If all blind people were the same and all totally blind this would be a
somewhat-understandable statement. Since we are not. Since many of us have
low vision which can be augmented by magnification and enhancing contrast,
we have a strong appreciation for visual images as do normally sighted
people. I have 6 works of graphic art in my home each done by a different
artist and each a treasure to me. I was just saying to a professor in my
department at Utah State University that I appreciate his leaving the
thumbnail images of his paintings on his web site even in the text area he
has developed for the visually impaired and those who would want to print
out from the site because I love the opportunity to click on these as I
view with a magnifying glass and be shown a full screen version of th
paintings. While the entire internet is not worth my viewing nose-on-screen
through 48 diopters of glass, some things are and I like having the option.
But I'm an artiste'! My work is purely graphical and
means nothing to someone is blind; they are not the
target audience for my gallery of visual artwork, and
so I don't need to be concerned with them.
What do you feel is the best response to this -- or are they
right?
"While they were saying among themselves it cannot be done, it was done."
Helen Keller
K7 (Kathy Seven Williams)
kseven@utah-inter.net
Sometimes when trying to explain the importance of accessibility
to web authors, and they run out of reasonable arguments against
it :), they produce something akin to the following:
But I'm an artiste'! My work is purely graphical and
means nothing to someone is blind; they are not the
target audience for my gallery of visual artwork, and
so I don't need to be concerned with them.
What do you feel is the best response to this -- or are they
right?
Kynn Bartlett kynn@idyllmtn.com http://www.idyllmtn.com/~kynn/
Chief Technologist &amp; Co-Owner, Idyll Mountain Internet; Fullerton, California
Enroll now for web accessibility with HTML 4.0! http://www.hwg.org/classes/
The voice of the future? http://www.hwg.org/opcenter/w3c/voicebrowsers.html
On Fri, 20 Nov 1998 12:10:28 -0800,
It depends. If I am searching for information, I won't be
interested. But if this is a photo of a house I might want to buy,
and no one sighted is around, I might want to save the image to disk
for someone to examine later, or I might want to run it through an
image processing routine and make a simplified braille printout of
it. (Such tools exist, although they have a long way to go.) If I'm
teaching a class, it would be useful if I could independently find the
picture and display it for the class. If this is a clip-art gallery
and I am free to use a clip in a newsletter or greeting card, it helps
to be able to find the image I want.
None of these need a really long Longdesc, although many of them will
need more than can be contained in a typical filename that I might get
from Lynx with verbose images turned on.
Technically inclined artists might want to look at the work of the
MPEG-7 standards process, the multimedia content description format.
It is their intent to establish standards by which people can locate
sounds and images by a query-by-example method, in addition to the
keyword searching that is currently the only practical method for
locating non-textual material. Until MPEG-7 is deployed (and I think
a descriptive language underlies much of it), search engines are blind
to art, no matter how wonderful it is.
Hope this helps.
-- Lloyd Rasmussen
Senior Staff Engineer, Engineering Section
National Library Service for the Blind and Physically Handicapped
Library of Congress 202-707-0535
(work) lras@loc.gov http://www.loc.gov/nls/
(home) lras@sprynet.com http://home.sprynet.com/sprynet/lras/
First off, I believe the gallery would be responsible formaking it accessible
(or enforcing it's accessibility on the designer)
But I don't think its the designer's call. It is certainly not the
artist whose work is being translated to the web's responsibility
Rarely is the WWW a medium in itself. An Escher print might
not be accessible as it is, but have a narrator describe the work and
now it is. Or is it? Visual artists might produce an image and it may
be served over the WWW. But is it their responsibility to add test descriptions?
Let's say an artist created a work that is heavily textured so the blind can
interpret elements of it. Let's say the painting is photographed and
it's image places on the web. Even if the image is described, the texture is
lost.
Is this accessible?
I hate to say it, but if you think about the web like television, where it
becomes the publisher's, not the artists, responsability to alt-tag the work
the issue may be easier to see (not that television does a good job at
accessibility)
but the idea that the medium of the WWW is not a medium like
acrylic paint is a medium (in this example), but media like broadcast
that serves groups of people with all sorts of needs and wants.
Now, lets talk about the other case, where the medium IS the web.
I am a self-learning student of what might be called 'net-art', art disseminated
over the internet, which uses the WWW as a medium. A medium like acrylic
paint is a medium. My paint is hypertext, images, HTML code, javascript,
audio files, and a multitude of other non-accessible media/conventions. I will
admit that nine times out of ten my net-art is not accesssible, and this is a
problem.
A symphony can be felt by the deaf, a painting or sculpture can be felt by the
blind.
If I write a hypertext poem that uses background colors and images, not to make
the page
visually appealing, but to communicate voice and tone to the reader (red might
be angry,
blue might be calm) there is no way a blind user can touch the screen and get
those impressions.
If I include a bit of text on an alternate version, the rythym is changed and
the poem becomes
something else.
Is multimedia art inaccessible?
What about kinetic light-based art? Like art that is made up of lasers? Is this
accessible?
Here's an opposing question intended to open the problem up.
Let's say I have developed a work for speech-reader, a work that
uses the tonal qualities of such a device to create art. The work is
delivered over the WWW. Is this work accessible? Sure, for those
with the specific speech reader I worked with- or any reader if that's
what I intended. But to a user without, no. the work would appear to be
not accessible.
The graphic designer who builds commercial web pages and claims
"I'm an artist, and I don't care about the blind" is missing the point
about the purpose of the Web- to deliver content.
-nick
Nick Traenkner, design manager
Kent Infoworks: 131 Moulton Hall, Kent Ohio 44242
Notes On Hypertext Literature
There will be some people for whom no retort could change their position
on feeling this way. Unfortunate as it is for them.
However, consider the most recognised method used by artists for their
work. Galleries and museums. Most any show you attend today intended for
showcasing works of art offer methods of making the shows available for
the appreciation of persons with physical limitations, including
blindness. These include guide tours and pre-recorded audio
presentations of the exhibits.
Utilizing proper HTML authoring techniques including the use of
alternative text
allows us to offer a similiar recourse for the visitors to our sites.
Once again as has been pointed out by many other contributors to this
list, this does not require multiple versions of the site. Using
templates is the best way I've found to do this for browser
independence.
David
I suppose what could be said varies according to the particulars, but one
response I have is that there's a way it's easy to leave out the social
context of peoples' lives when we start talking about "disabled users,"
almost as though they live in some alien land without friends, families and
colleagues whose abilities may differ from theirs.
For example, take the case of someone who's blind who has a friend (with no
vision disabilities) who's very interested in the culture of pre-Hellenic
Greece. If that blind person found a graphically-rich site devoted to the
subject and were given enough information about the graphics to have a
sense of what was there, the site could be shared with the friend and their
interaction might provide a broadened context in which both persons could
appreciate the graphics more than either could individually.
Regards,
Craig Wilson
Well, it sounds like the medium of such artistes is what Australians call
Bull (in polite company). I recently ran across just such a situation in
preparing a catalog of a visual arts and sculpture exhibition for the
web. As it happens, most of what uis there is not visual - it is
information - metadata about the ork, such as its price, when it was
created, the media used, the artist, etc. One of the pieces of such
metadata is a short description of the work. After all, a 72dpi
screen-based reproduction of an oil painting or high-quality photograph,
let alone a wood and metal sculpture, simply doesn't provide the same
experience to any user. (Those with very poor vision and a magnified
screen may be exceptions here). Not recognising this is plain stupidity.
Which leaves us with the case where the a multi-media presentation
requires the use of a particular set of software/hardware. Which is to
the web as line-drawn cartoons are to visual arts - a very small subset,
using a tiny fraction of the expresiveness and power of the medium itself
(If we consider all hand-produced visual arts as the medium, for
example). This is not to say that these pieces are not high-quality, just
just that they are denied any possibility of being really great by
artificially failing to use techniues which are avilable in the medium.
The web is not a graphic medium, but an information medium, which allows
content to be presented in a multitude of ways, including graphically.
Anybody who cannot see that distinction, and the downplaying that it
implies for graphic design as the guiding design principle for web-based
content, is a goose. Anybody who sees it, but claims that as ebsite
designers they are only interested in graphic design, is not fit to build
public information websites. They may of course produce marvellous art,
but most companies and govenment bodies are not in the business of
producing art, and most of their websites are designed to make their
information available. Fond as I am of sculpture, I don't care how many
sculptures the Registry of marriages has until I can get my marriage
certificate. That is their primary responsiblity, not giving jobs to
graphic designers.
So my response is "Fine. But stick to what you know - make artworks,
rather than claiming expertise in web design." (Which is what some of my
friends do for a living, and they create art for the web which I really
like, and which I inevitably miss about half of becuase it requires all
sorts of wierd and wonderful plugins and features. But then I can look at
Jackson Pollock for hours and not really find anything worthwhile, just a
bit of paint splattered on a canvas. That's the nature of art.)
Cheers
Charles McCathieNevile
My first thought was ok know your buyers. But that is chancy, because people
with disabilities tell others about great sites so customers can be won or
lost through referrals! Just because I'm not going to buy a motorcycle
doesn't mean I'll never suggest a site to someone else, if it is Accessible.
&amp; other things being equal that open mindedness could make the sale. Word of
mouth, &amp; now email, can help or hinder sales. BTW I'm not suggesting
anything organized, I'm thinking family &amp; acquaintances.
Regards,
Bryan
- "Just because we call it the Web does not mean its supposed to tangle
people up!"
Dear Craig,
Again, please include a COMPLETE sign-off in your posts to this list, with
your e-mail and company name.
I do not want people to get the two of us confused. This could cause a great
deal of confusion as time goes on.
Thank you for your time and consideration.
Wilson Craig
Marketing Manager/Webmaster
Henter-Joyce, Inc.
1-800-336-5658
wilsonc@hj.com
Behalf Of Craig Wilson
I suppose what could be said varies according to the particulars, but one
response I have is that there's a way it's easy to leave out the social
context of peoples' lives when we start talking about "disabled users,"
almost as though they live in some alien land without friends, families and
colleagues whose abilities may differ from theirs.
For example, take the case of someone who's blind who has a friend (with no
vision disabilities) who's very interested in the culture of pre-Hellenic
Greece. If that blind person found a graphically-rich site devoted to the
subject and were given enough information about the graphics to have a
sense of what was there, the site could be shared with the friend and their
interaction might provide a broadened context in which both persons could
appreciate the graphics more than either could individually.
Regards,
Craig Wilson
In our haste to show each other our various ablitlites and abilities it
seems we have all forgotten the admonition:
"A house divided against itself cannot stand."
Everyone with or without disabilities should think hard about this. We are
all members of the human race. We need to work together, all of us, all of
the time. Otherwise there will only be wrangling and unsatisfactory
solutions at best. If the solutions be drastic then so be it. But we need
to
understand that we are all in this together, until we do, there will be much
grief for all concerned.
Sincerely,
Mike Burks
Following the discussion about the access to art, I wish to present
my point of view on this subject.
I think that, in the discussion about accessibility, we have to
establish a list of priorities and distinguish between barriers
which prevent us from accessing pieces of information convertible
into an alternative presentation, and other components which are
not important for the navigation and that, in addition, require the
subjective interpretation of a sighted person.
The problem is more general than that of the accessibility of a
hypertext. I am totally blind and I have this problem every days,
when I walk in the street of my town (Florence). I'd like to have
a description on demand of the environment: the landscape of the
town, the sunset, buildings, churches, hills, the river and (why
not?) the pretty girls walking in the streets.
In the same time, I need information about the state of traffic
lights, the location of crossing for pedestrians or of bus stops;
I need to know the number of the bus arriving to the stop or the
names of the stops, when I am inside a bus.
Well, I can request the intervention of the local administration to
provide crossing and buses with adequate electronic systems, or
other solutions, to give me information enough to be able to move
alone in the town but I thing that nobody can ensure to me a total
accessibility to everything a sighted person can appreciate by
looking about. Such a generalized request would not result
reasonable.
In the same way, the accessibility of graphical information
represents a real problem for us when this component is crucial for
the access to other part of a document or for the comprehension of
the subject, but a "purely visual expression" of an artist can be
neglected with no real loss of information. An artistic work is
addressed to a specific sensorial modality and any alternative
description results inadequate to produce the same effect on a
person who cannot have direct access to it. Even a sophisticated
description represents the interpretation of the narrator. It can
be useful but it cannot replace the feeling produced by a direct
perception. This difference can be dramatic in the case of abstract
art.
An artist cannot be charged of the problem of universal design. We
cannot expect that the whole world is transformed according to our
needs.
On the other hand, other classes of disabled have requirements
which often are not compatible with those of blind people. For
example, a congenitally deaf person has difficulties, not only to
access speech and sounds, but often also written information, in
the case of too abstract subjects or complex document architecture,
because of lack of language knowledge.
And what about cognitive disabled and mentally retarded people?
If authors or artists had have to take into account of all these
problems, they probably would not be able to produce any piece of
work.
In conclusion, we have to accept some limitations to the general
accessibility, by adopting a pragmatic approach. I agree with the
statement "accessibility is a right and not a privilege" but we
must carefully interpret such a principle.
Paolo Graziani
Paolo Graziani
Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche
Istituto di Ricerca sulle Onde Elettromagnetiche "Nello Carrara"
Via Panciatichi 64
I - 50127 Firenze
E-mail: graziani@iroe.fi.cnr.it
