I suggest using "Content-ID" for a globally unique originator-supplied
identifier.
this cannot be used in a secure and verifiable fashion....which is
probably why nobody who cares about the integrity of their data uses it.
yes
yes what? an attempt at sarcasm? the lack of any verifiable content
identification in HTTP is marked.
*2. the method of identification (secure MD5 hash,
registration authority, etc.)
unnecessary
how would you propose to validate the identity of a document without
knowing the method of identification?
i would reference the rfc on http-digests where the hash-method is...of
course...critical to the process of password-authentication. this
information is also required for document authentication
3. the scope of the content-identifier (eg: *.com)
always global
in the rfc "draft-ietf-http-digest-aa-04" this "useless" feature of
scoping is addressed in reference to authentication digests. the point
was to define a scope for password caching. this also applies to
document-level caching and for the same reasons detailed therein
in order to perform accurate object identification, a usable
"Content-ID" header should be specified
I suggested using "Content-ID" as a globally unique
originator-supplied identifier. You replied in one part that
"this cannot be used in a secure and verifiable fashion"
which I interpret as implying that you'd somehow like the recipient to
be able to verify that the content actually corresponds to the
identifier, without having to take the word of the supplier of the
content.
But later, you argued for content identifiers to have domains, rather
than global scope. I don't see why anyone would bother providing
something that was both secure and verifiable and didn't have global
uniqueness.
Maybe you meant something else by "the scope of the
content-identifier"?
Larry
assuming that a hash-scheme is not feasible...for reasons unknown to
me...
...a scheme which uses trusted-hosts would require scope.....
granted a hashing algorithm is the most desirable solution.....
