Thanks for the suggestions in the meeting last week, and on the list since
then, for a new slide in the online overview, describing "What is Web
Accessibility."
I'd also mentioned that I was going to ask the WAI team for comments on the
slides, and Ian pointed out that the slides in the online overview mainly
focus on accessibility of Web sites, and that we need to also emphasize the
need for accessibility of the software used to access and produce Web content.
Throwing some of these thoughts together, how about something like the
following? This could become slide 3, right at the beginning of the slide
set. It needs to be cut down in length. Comments welcome.
What is Web Accessibility?
Web accessibility includes:
- making Web sites accessible to people with disabilities, by making them:
-- more perceivable, operable, navigable, understandable and robust
-- for people with disabilities that can encounter barriers on the Web.
- making software used to access Web sites more accessible to people with
disabilities, by making:
-- browsers, multimedia players, and other software more usable by
people with disabilities, and
-- by making this software work better with technologies that some
people with disabilities use.
- making the authoring tools used to produce Web sites
-- better support production of accessible Web sites; and
-- more usable by people with disabilities.
Web accessibility also:
-- benefits many other users of the Web; and
-- is a requirement for some Web sites and some Web applications in
certain countries.
- Judy
Judy Brewer +1.617.258.9741 http://www.w3.org/WAI
Director, Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI), World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)
MIT/LCS Room NE43-355, 200 Technology Square, Cambridge, MA, 02139, USA
BINGO!
Love.
It's Bad Luck to be Superstitious!
Hello Judy and all,
I find this slide clear as a whole.
Nevertheless, I have problems with the second sub-bullet of the first list.
If you ignore the first sub-bullet, it sounds as follows:
Web accessibility includes:
- making Web sites accessible to people with disabilities, by making them:
-- for people with disabilities that can encounter barriers on the Web.
I suggest:
Web accessibility includes:
- making Web sites accessible to people with disabilities, that can
encounter barriers on the Web.
-- by making Web sites more perceivable, operable, navigable,
understandable and robust.
Regards
Sylvie
A 06:26 24/01/03, Judy Brewer a ?crit :
For your consideration:
Web accessibility:
- removing barriers that limit the ability of an individual with a
disability or a user
of alternative computer access methods to use Web content and Web
applications or to
participate in their development in a manner one chooses, thereby
enhancing ones
effectiveness, efficiency and the satisfaction experienced. The benefits
tend to be more
universal facilitating:
- the needs of even non-disabled users and developers of websites, and
- adherence toorganizational or statutory requirements that might be
mandated.
If this is the first slide,it must define Web accessibility in conceptual
terms and relegate
words like operable, perceivable, navigable, authoring tools etc to later
slides that
explain the definition. The slides that follow do a splendid job there. Also
it may be a
good idea not to use words like "accessible" (or usable)that are in fact
being defined.
There is no trace of duplication of language and phrases within the above
definition nor
in relation to the slides that follow.... And it is not very longish!
Sailesh Panchang
Senior Accessibility Engineer
Deque Systems Inc
E-mail: sailesh.panchang@deque.com
* Look up http://www.deque.com *
