clarify what we mean about separating content/structure from
presentation.
Would appreciate comments - I need all the help I can get!
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
We've spent a lot of time discussing the term "content"
in the UAWG. Please refer to the definition in the 18 August
draft [1]:
In this specification, the term "content" is used in two ways:
1.Content refers to the document object as a whole or in parts.
Phrases such as "content type", "text content",
and "language of content" refer to this usage. When used in this
sense, the term content encompasses equivalent alternatives.
Refer also to the definition of rendered content. and other
accessibility information.
2.Content refers to the content of an HTML or XML element, in
the sense employed by the XML 1.0 specification ([XML], section
3.1):
"The text between the start-tag and end-tag is called the element's
content." Context should indicate that the term content is being
used in this sense.
We do not use the term content in the sense of "information". I
recommend that you therefore distinguish:
1) Content (everything that comes over the wire, basically)
2) Structural markup. We list "important structural elements"
from HTML in checkpoint 7.6. This list is based in part
on the list in the WCAG 1.0 Techniques.
3) Meaning. We haven't dealt with meaning much (or
'information' conveyed by content). It might be
useful here to distinguish what machines can understand
(because they have been programmed to do so, they implement
specs and reflect the meaning in those specs, etc.) and
what humans can understand (red means danger in some cultures,
this is a photo of Aunt Gladys not just a series of pixels,
this left alignment means some kind of organization, etc.).
4) Style: The part of content that describes its rendering.
In the UAWG we are still working on some of these issues. However,
we've spent a ton of time on what "content" means and I would urge
you not to assign meaning to the term other than the document
object is constituted of content.
- Ian
[1] http://www.w3.org/WAI/UA/WD-UAAG10-20000818
Ian Jacobs (jacobs@w3.org) http://www.w3.org/People/Jacobs
Cell: +1 917 450-8783
IMHO this is great! Exactly the sort of thing that is needed to communicate
the intent of the guidelines to a wider audience.
Marti
AG::
This may be one of those cases where one glossary entry does not suffice
for all the things that the WAI does.
The question of jargon uniformity came up in the coordination group, where
Harvey's efforts at constructing a common lexicon were lauded, but we so
far lack a volunteer Working Group to manage and put the effort into the
maintenance of the module.
At that point I argued that WCA should not have un-hindered license to do
whatever they want in the way of coining jargon, independent of the usage
in peer documents and groups. On the other hand, the fact that a term has
been defined one way in one Recommendation should not mean that it has to
be used that way by all later documents. Just that the difference has to
be defensible.
In this particular case, I think that a difference in the default slant of
'content' is something that goes with the difference in charter between WCA
and UA.
The content guidelines and the user agent guidelines do each approach the
overall web scenario from a slightly different angle. The work in web
content should properly take a "genre analysis" perspective which deals
more with the markup as an extension and reinforcement of rhetorical
structures visible in the non-markup content of the page. The user agent
does not have much recourse to information about the sense or structure of
the content other than what is indicated in the markup. The author does.
Hence the content guidelines [and ER tools and AU tools] address the
relationship between the formal knowledge about the markup and the author
knowledge about the content marked. To a degree the UA guidelines cannot.
So the content guidelines deal systematically with the natural
interpretation of the sense of the content in a way that the user agent
guidelines do not, and it is natural for the default sense of 'content' to
be somewhat different in the two volumes.
Al
IJ:: "We've spent a lot of time discussing the term "content" in the
UAWG."
WL: And in the ATAG, ERT, GL, and a bit in the EO Working Groups. The
"conclusion" reached is essentially that even when we start talking
about pinning it down, there is no agreement that it can be pinned down.
The very title "Web Content Accessibility Guidelines" might be a case in
point. A major problem is that "content" is a word whose meaning is
without "ownership". A similar anarchy occured in ATAG with the word
"prompt" which has a fairly specific meaning in software engineering
circles and a rather different one in everyday conversation.
By putting one (actually two in the cited glossary reference!)
particular interpretation of how the term is used in one document just
won't have any effect on people reading this stuff who *know* what is
the "semantic content" of the word "content" - it means different things
at different times and in different contexts to different people under
various circumstances, if you take my meaning.
The little exercise attempted at: http://rdf.pair.com/expo.htm using
"content" was undertaken not in the sense of rigor demanded by a formal
document but as a means of explaining what to a great many people not
privy to our counsel what we mean when we (rather often and variously)
say "separate content from presentation" and all its cousins also
involving such things as "structure", "semantics", "styling",
"appearance", and probably other words that most people think they know
how to use (what they "mean") but are encountering in, to them, strange
combinations.
To a great many people "presentation" *is* "content" as is "structure".
I don't expect to resolve the niceties of how to express all the
relationships in a "throw-away" note, just to begin making a few dark
things clear.
Ian says "However, we've spent a ton of time on what "content" means and
I would urge you not to assign meaning to the term other than the
document object is constituted of content." To which William replies
that the intended audience for "Trial A" comes from a population that
has spent statistically hugely more time deciding what "content" means
and they couldn't care less what we decide g . Further if one does a
search of all the WAI and various ML worryings about this matter it will
be seen to resist the sort of categorization we might seek. We might
call it the "content of content" problem. Or even the "'content' of
'content'" situation.
I appreciate the advice but in the instant context I think the main
result of further messing with this particular word will be further
obfuscation in the very area I intended to clarify. Parenthetically (a
Table of Contents is often in fact a compendium of Structures with no
reference to "content"!) when I asked Prof. Goldfarb, whose urge to the
assembly at the WAI kickoff breakfast in Santa Clara was to take this
(what may be one of the last) opportunity to evangelize the separation
of content from presentation, what the SGML originators thought of this,
he made it clear that it wasn't all that clear. At least I think that's
what he said, or I'm pretty sure that's what he said, or maybe the
"Trial A" piece, Ian's email, Al's reply, and this somewhat convoluted
and self-reflexive response are reasonably probative examples of why
this has the same order of unresolvability as whether {ALT="" and ALT="
discussions} have led to any conclusion?
To the audience I thought I was trying to reach
and I hoped to ease them into an awareness of what some of our jargon
means and how it applies to enhancing a usable/accessible/semantic "Web
of Trust" and all that other high-sounding stuff.
Thank you all (mostly in advance) for your comments, suggestions,
encouragement and counsel. Keep them coming because one of the main
problems we encounter (particularly in GL and E &amp; O) in getting visitors
to our documents to avoid CUS (cryptic usage syndrome) and ADE (arcane
definition effect).
I will bet that a landslide-sized majority of people who use H1 /H1
not only think of it purely as a formatting shortcut, but aren't even
aware of what, in its context, "structure" means. It's just easier than
putting in all the font-size, alignment, etc. tags that come free with
that element. Loser buys the first round in Bristol.
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
