Also: While HTML isn't sensitive to whitespace, XML-based languages _may_
be. The XML spec says which whitespace is guaranteed _not_ to be eliminated
but leaves anything outside of that up to the implementation of the
processors for each individual notation.
So keeping or elminating whitespace isn't really something the DOM should
be involved in. A DOM _implementation_ might mark which whitespace is
potentially ignorable... but that would be an extended feature in support
of whatever tool generated the DOM, and hence is part of that tool's spec,
not the DOM's.
Personal opinions from another relative DOM novice:
I have always found Dynamic HTML to be a confusing term.
I don't think the DOM can do anything about this. Contact the HTML
committees?
settle on a compressed transmission protocol
I think that's outside the scope of the DOM, which only deals with how to
manipulate the document while it's in memory. (And the DOM provides only
the essential functions; applications will either extend the DOM or wrap
other code around it to add the behaviors they need.)
what are the procedures for registering that a DOM implementation
matches the spec?).
It _would_ be nice if there was a publicly-available regression test;
that's a good suggestion. Anyone have one they want to contribute, or is
the DOM still sufficiently in flux that it's premature to attempt one?
I have always wanted hypertext to have a built in conditional door
Sounds to me like you want something approaching a MUD environment. I'm
sure such an application could be built on top of the DOM -- but in fact
the DOM doesn't even address hypertext, beyond its ability to store HTML.
Even following normal HTML links is the application's responsibility rather
than the DOM's.
It should be possible to request a graph summary of the structure
of a document
It's not to write a tool which walks the DOM and generates this. In fact,
one implementation of the DOM that I've worked on also implemented Java's
TreeNode interface, so it could be directly displayed in a JTree; that only
takes a few hours of hacking to bring up a basic version. But display is
not something the DOM itself should deal with; as far as the DOM is
concerned, it _is_ the graph.
I have always found Dynamic HTML to be a confusing term.
From http://www.w3.org/DOM:
"Dynamic HTML" is a term used by some vendors to describe the
combination of HTML, style sheets and scripts that allows documents to
be animated.
Arnaud Le Hors - W3C, User Interface Domain - www.w3.org/People/Arnaud
