In-reply-to: Your message of Fri, 26 Mar 1999 13:43:09 +0000."
I suspect there is some timing problem in Amaya with respect to X.
Not only is there the above with double-click, but I also find that
the screen tends to "flash" when changing pages; and pixels tend to
go blank when you scroll with the arrow keys (the PgUp/Dn keys seem
to be all right, though), so that text lines may lose the bottom halves
of characters or go blank altogether. Text lines can get superimposed too.
It's not a Amaya problem, but a X problem. You can check in the code, the
Amaya
role is limited to react at each X event. If your window manager keeps events
or your X server omits to send them, Amaya cannot work fine.
That was confirmed by people who mentioned double-click problems and explained
that Amaya worked fine as soon as they changed their window manager.
After seeing your reply and a few others (many thanks for the help) it
seems that this is a real problem and one which has been on-going for some
time. I thought I'd try and compile amaya...no joy. The make process is
badly broken on my machine. Among the errors I get is:
configure: warning: Thot editor sources not found
I guess you didn't follow instructions to build Amaya.
You didn't create the target directory obj and you didn't go into this
directory
to start ../configure.
It occurred to me to suggest to the developers (via this list) to adopt a
right-click to follow a link and a left-click to edit, that is if the
developers are unable to track this problem down. Being unable to compile
amaya (and only knowing how to write X11 software using Tcl/Tk) I have not
attempted this myself.
We're considering the possibility to navigate with simple-clicks in the next
Amaya
release.
Irene.
In trying to compile amaya under Sun SPARC Solaris 2.5.1 the final link
command fails to locate the library libXp
Does anyone know what this library is for?
AFL
I suspect there is some timing problem in Amaya with respect to X.
Not only is there the above with double-click, but I also find that
the screen tends to "flash" when changing pages; and pixels tend to
go blank when you scroll with the arrow keys (the PgUp/Dn keys seem
to be all right, though), so that text lines may lose the bottom halves
of characters or go blank altogether. Text lines can get superimposed too.
Several of us report that Amaya isn't working properly under Sun's window
manager. Is this a problem in all installations? or is there someone out
there who is happily double-clicking and following links while running
Amaya with olwm? Do other apps running under olwm fail to recognize
double clicks?
I thought that Sun was a major factor, so I'm a little surprised the Amaya
developers aren't more concerned about Amaya's reported problem working
with olwm.
Incidentally, the Amaya revisions I used prior to my Nov, 1997 report
(pre-1.3, revisions, I think) did a fine job following links.
Roger Miller
X11 &amp; Amaya interoperability problem removed
You start mentioning Sun's window manager. We have several Sun workstations
around the office. They come with more than one windowmanager: The old SunOS
4.x versions default to olwm but also include mwm, the motif window manager
and olvwm, the OpenLookvirtual windowmanager. It is possible that the last 2
windowmanagers are added to the default installation but it is reported that
usage does differ
The newer Solaris machines come also with more than one flavour of
windowmanaging. For compatibility, the openlook windowmanager is included.
Also CDE comes with Solaris, internally known as the dtwm. This CDE is
compatible with Motif. Note that Solaris 2.5.x comes with CDE 1.0.2 which is
motif 1.2 compatible. Solaris 2.6 comes with CDE 1.2 which is motif 2.0
compatible. (the version numbers are memorized by head, please update me if
I'm wrong)
Here you see that Sun comes with more than one windowmanager. I know there
are many inconsistenties (if not incompatibilities) between the
windowmanagers.
Sorry, but at my desktop, I use CDE 1.0.2 from HP. This is to be compatible
with Solaris CDE 1.0.2. There are no problems with Amaya on this HP-CDE
environment.
I don't know which windowmanager is defined for usage with Amaya and/or Thot
but if it is Motif, the use with the openlook windowmanager can arize
problems. If you use CDE (dtwm) than you can switch to real motif mode by
pressing ctrl shift alt 1 (also reported to be ctrl alt ! , I don't
know if this differs on your keyboard) And switch back using the same keys.
On my HP-UX machine, I see that amaya uses libXm (`chatr amaya`). The
solaris executable also reports to use libXm (`ldd amaya`).This is definitly
the motif library so I should say motif (or compatible) is the windowmanager
to use.
Remark: I have build amaya from source, so using the Xm library can be due
to my own build. Check your executable which library is required. If you use
the prebuild binaries, try if building your own binaries differs.
CB
Vote against SPAM!: http://www.politik-digital.de/spam/
Corne' Beerse| Alcatel Telecom Nederland
