Hi, Charles
I'm not sure I would totally agree with the areas you listed in agreement.
If someting is good, that doesn't necessarily mean it should be everywhere.
If at one point of time, it is possible to meet people's needs with one
item, that doesn't necessarily mean it is the best solution. One
possibility is cutting download time with smaller versions rather
than one big version. Also, if the needs change over time, early preparation
may be easier with multiple versions.
Shared experience is only one aspect. What are people willing to give
up in order to have a shared experience?
Scott
Scott,
Let us first examine areas where we all seem to be agreed:
1. Something that is helpful to a group of people, and does not cause a
problem for others, is good, and should be everywhere. It is particularly
important for such a thing to be where those people are or are trying to be.
2. Different people have different needs, and one of our basic goals is to
work out how to meet those needs, in particular with respect to using the
web.
3. Doing something that meets people's needs is good, even if it is possible
to do something better that meets people's needs. But doing something better
is better (by definition)
Now, consider a couple more propositions that I think will meet agreement,
but I'm not certain:
1. Where it is possible to meet those needs by making one thing that everyone
can use, instead of making differnt things for different people, that is
preferable.
I suggest that this is true substantially because people are social, and want
to be able to share their experience with other people, and in many cases do
not want to be constrained to sharin them with other people who have the same
set of needs. In addition, people don't live to work - they want to do what
is necessary and be done with it. This gives rise to a risk of the "good
enough" solution that works for "enough" people, in place of an actual
solution, that solves the problems people face.
2. In producing material for the web, presentation and semantic content
should be as separate as possible.
I accept this on faith from computer scientist and information scientists,
but it seems to make sense as a basic requirement for being able to represent
information in various different types of system.
(I'm still trying to tease out what I think are a lot of issues you initial
questions raise, and so I'm trying to home in by establishing some common
ground or at least some reference points).
Cheers
Charles McCN
This thread was discussed at today's meeting. Details can be found in the
minutes, to which Wendy has posted a reference. Those present at the
teleconference were in broad agreement that:
1. The use of "alternative pages" as supplied by a web server, is
permitted in the existing guidelines as a "last resort" option (checkpoint
11.4). Appropriate technical advice may therefore be given in the
Techniques document.
2. Any acceptance of the proposition that "alternative versions" of web
content should be deployed as the principal means of satisfying diverse
user needs, would entail substantial revision of the guidelines and a
radical departure from the principles of universal design which lie at
their foundation. More specifically, control over presentation, instead of
residing in the hands of the user, would be transferred to the author and
the server administrator. Instead of supplying semantically and
structurally rich markup to the client software, the server would provide
presentationally-oriented markup, constituting one of several alternative
presentations defined by the content developer.
3. Participants in the teleconference were unanimously of the view that,
while recognising the need to provide alternative versions of content in
order to accommodate the limitations of certain user agents, for example
those in mobile devices, client-side style sheets, combined with
appropriate XML/HTML/XHTML markup to convey significant semantic and
structural distinctions, offer a more flexible and general solution than
would recourse to server-supplied presentational formats in meeting the
needs of diverse user populations.
4. If the present discussion of server-generated content is to proceed
further, then it must be formulated as a specific proposal to change the
guidelines and/or techniques document, rather than as a general thesis
concerning web accessibility. Though acknowledging the general value of
the discussion so far, working group members considered that a concrete
proposal would need to be offered if the issue were to be pursued farther
in the context of this group and its deliverables.
In replying privately to a query, it came to my attention that whilst
cognitive disability occupies me professionally, having a three year old
daughter also is a concern.
Surely we must recognise that children require significantly different
material?
What efforts is wai making to meets this need?
As it is likely that currently these pages would need to be in a separate
area, does this not answer the "one size fits all" personalized web page?
query?
jay@peepo.com
Jonathan Chetwynd
Special needs teacher / web accessibility consultant
education and outreach working group member, web accessibility initiative,
W3C
