Well, I'm looking at Amaya. The only thing I've found so far is this:
Thot tool kit error: attribute element mismatch
*** Errors in http://www.lesstif.org/:
line 23, char 96: Missing semicolon
Thot tool kit error: attribute element mismatch
This happened when it was trying to parse http://www.lesstif.org/ after
going there from http://www.dnaco.net/~kragen/x-pretty.html, but I can't
reproduce it. I also got it when going from Help|Browsing to Links.html
via the "create links" hotlink once, but I can't reproduce it there,
either.
... and there are numerous miscellaneous quibbles about usability which
probably aren't important, unless you intend people to use the browser.
My impression is that it's intended for experimenting with the latest,
greatest experimental web stuff, not to be used by a significant number of
people.
I haven't tried the editor functionality.
Kragen
Kragen,
Is this happening under the lastest version (1.1a Beta)?
We just uploaded it a couple of hours ago. You may have seen
the mail go by if you're subscribed to the mailing list.
-Jose
In our previous episode, Kragen Javier Sittler said:
This message tells you that the HTML file you have loaded contains an error.
Line 23 in this file is:
LessTif is the a href="http://www.hungry.com" Hungry Programmers /a ' version
of OSF/Motif&amp;reg.
entity &amp;reg should be terminated by a semicolon. The semicolon may
be omitted only if the entity is followed by a space or record end.
Here, it is followed by a period.
Don't worry, Amaya recovers from such errors, but if you are interested
in producing syntactically correct HTML documents, you can fix the error.
I can't reproduce it either...
If you have time to report on these quibbles, the Amaya team would be
glad to consider how to improve usability.
Yes, our goal is to experiment and demonstrate new web stuff. But to allow
people to make experiments and to run demos, usability is important too.
I would encourage you to try. We have put the emphasis on that functionality
and we are solliciting comments and feedback on it.
Vincent.
Vincent Quint INRIA Rhone-Alpes
W3C/INRIA ZIRST
e-mail: Vincent.Quint@w3.org 655 avenue de l'Europe
This I understood -- although it was somewhat difficult to diagnose, given
that Amaya gave me no apparent way to see the raw HTML, let alone numbered
lines. I had originally deleted that error message, but I thought it
might be helpful in discovering what, exactly, caused the Thot tool kit
errors.
Have you ever had it happen?
- My backspace key generates the keysym Delete. There doesn't seem to be
any other way to delete the character to the left, such as Control-H.
- Most control-characters insert the printable-ascii version. Control-K
inserts a 'k'. As a result, I use the mouse even for basic editing
operations, such as deleting the entire contents of a field.
- There doesn't seem to be a way to view the raw HTML. If there is, it's
certainly not apparent, and it should be.
- When Amaya is fed a text file, it pretends that it's HTML, even if
given text/plain as the MIME type. Transforming text to HTML for rendering
is not difficult.
- Double-clicking on the language SELECT on http://altavista.digital.com/
yields a two-column menu, whose second column has entries like the
following:
B%s
HTML
map
link
%d
?%d,%d
(I suspect this is a genuine bug, not just a quibble.)
- It's the slowest browser I've ever seen, when it comes to inline images.
It reminds me of when Mosaic first implemented forms, and it was a bad
idea to scroll less than a page at a time. Loading
than ten seconds on my 5x86/133. This file contains six embedded img s
repeated many times, for a grand total of 1424 bytes of images.
- The input fields are focus-follows-mouse, which means a) you can't use
keyboard shortcuts to get from one field to another; b) you have to be
careful not to joggle the mouse when you're typing, since those fields
are too small.
- And about keyboard shortcuts. What keyboard shortcuts? I have to use
the mouse to navigate everything.
- Hitting Return in the only text field on a form doesn't submit it, the
way it does in Netscape. Perhaps this is really a preference issue.
- Double-clicking to follow hotlinks is a pain in the butt.
... but I'll try it soon.
I hope this doesn't sound too critical. I know a browser this nice is a
major project, and I'm quite impressed. But little things tended to
bother me.
Kragen
