Hello again,
Here is my first stab at the Purpose statement (38 words) - I look forward to your comments!
WAI is your resource for Web accessibility. WAI includes: resources to help you create accessible websites; design software that supports production of accessible Web sites; and design accessible browsers in order to make the internet accessible for everyone.
Best,
Carol J. Smith
carol@kognitive.com
Here's a brief explanation (from previous notes) to include for EOWG (please give feedback on this as well). I don't think my current version of the purpose statement has much pizzazz so maybe someone has a way to work that in?
"The Purpose statement is meant to be user-centric and focused especially towards the newbies. It should answer the question of "what is this page I've landed on?". It should have some pizzazz, and generally align with the vision of the website."
Carol
Hello again,
Here is my first stab at the Purpose statement (38 words) - I look forward to your comments!
WAI is your resource for Web accessibility. WAI includes: resources to help you create accessible websites; design software that supports production of accessible Web sites; and design accessible browsers in order to make the internet accessible for everyone.
Best,
Carol J. Smith
carol@kognitive.com
from carol:
"The Purpose statement is meant to be user-centric and focused
especially towards the newbies. It should answer the question of "what
is this page I've landed on?". It should have some pizzazz, and
generally align with the vision of the website."
WAI is your resource for Web accessibility. WAI includes: resources to
help you create accessible websites; design software that supports
production of accessible Web sites; and design accessible browsers in
order to make the internet accessible for everyone.
some other brainstorms. please comment!
1. short one:
"WAI develops international guidelines and supporting resources to
increase accessibility of the Web for people with disabilities."
2. perhaps combine with our Guidelines and Resources section to include
links to our main sections (see
wireframe):
The W3C main home page has in top position: "The World Wide Web
Consortium (W3C) develops interoperable technologies (specifications,
guidelines, software, and tools) to lead the Web to its full potential.
W3C is a forum for information, commerce, communication, and collective
understanding. On this page, you'll find a href W3C news /a , links to
a href W3C technologies /a and ways to a href get involved /a . New
visitors can find help in a href Finding Your Way at W3C /a . We
encourage you to read the a href Prospectus /a and learn a href more
about W3C /a ."
This combines a site purpose with links to sections of the home page and
to introductory material on other pages.
straw proposal of this idea (which I don't like, but is a start for
discussion):
"WAI works with organizations around the world to develop guidelines and
supporting resources to help make the Web accessible for people with
disabilities. This site has two main sections:
- About WAI
- Guidelines and Resources, which includes
-- Getting Started
-- Guidelines and Techniques
-- General Resources, Promoting and Implementing, Evaluating,
Developing Training"
(with the bullet items being links, and no links in the sentence)
