To conclude, i think it is useless and perhaps even a bad educational
choice to present
RDF, RDFS and OWL as 3 (or 3 + 2) different languages each of them to be
used for a set of problem instead of one language (OWL) with a set of
features each of them which can be used for a set of problem.
Could all three be subsumed under one heading, e.g., W3C
Semantic Web Language (SWL)?
The basic message could then be: "there is one language,
which offers different vocabularies and constructs depending
on what you want to say".
Rather than: "there are three or more languages and this is
how they differ."
Tom
Dr. Thomas Baker Thomas.Baker@izb.fraunhofer.de
Institutszentrum Schloss Birlinghoven mobile +49-160-9664-2129
Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft work +49-30-8109-9027
To conclude, i think it is useless and perhaps even a bad educational
choice to present
RDF, RDFS and OWL as 3 (or 3 + 2) different languages each of them to be
used for a set of problem instead of one language (OWL) with a set of
features each of them which can be used for a set of problem.
That's not made easier by the semantic differences between the languages.
(Jeremy said unhelpfully)
To conclude, i think it is useless and perhaps even a bad educational
choice to present RDF, RDFS and OWL as 3 (or 3 + 2) different
languages each of them to be
used for a set of problem instead of one language (OWL) with a set of
features each of them which can be used for a set of problem.
actually, I think this is the right track -- to present it as one
langauge overall - I'm not sure calling that langauge "OWL" is really
right -- seems to me RDF is the right name -- that is RDF used in the
"generic" sense the way "XML" is used to refer to XML, Xquery, XML
Schema, ... - we will need to be clear when we mean RDF per se and
when we mean the specific subsets -- but, for example, a document
which contains the statement
ex:foo a ex:bar.
is clearly an RDF document, but depending on what is in the "ex"
namespace, this could use vocabulary from the RDF Schema and/or OWL
vocabularies.
similary
ex:foo rdfs:subClassOf sx:bar.
is an RDF document, an RDFS document and an OWL (Full) document, even
though it doesn't appear to use OWL vocabulary
so I think a goal of the WORLD document (second document, aimed at
Sem Web interested folks) will be to make clear the relations and to
point out when there are semantic differences The semantic
differences outside OWL DL and Lite are not that great, so this makes
a good way to discuss what the two profiles of OWL are and what they
contribute (I'll even hope someone who likes them write this section
:- )
-JH
Professor James Hendler http://www.cs.umd.edu/users/hendler
Director, Semantic Web and Agent Technologies 301-405-2696
Univ of Maryland, College Park, MD 20742 240-277-3388 (Cell)
I agree. RDF has been around for longer and has better
name recognition. Far better to say: "RDF is getting better,
stretching its wings, etc" than to unintentionally imply that
RDF is becoming obsolete (as in "Tired: RDF. Wired: OWL.").
Tom
Dr. Thomas Baker Thomas.Baker@izb.fraunhofer.de
Institutszentrum Schloss Birlinghoven mobile +49-160-9664-2129
Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft work +49-30-8109-9027
