Question: Do search engines really scan alt text given for images
snip /
one of my co-workers was architect at alta-vista so I asked him;
seems
that 'most' search engines should be expected to parse text that is
in
elements and can be expected to parse certain attribute values, like
alt, as well.
I also remember cases (when searching via Google) where 'alt' attribute
values were shown, but unfortunately I was neither able to reproduce
this nor
have I found documentation about this right now.
Search engines and indexing is something I spent some time studying and
as far as I am aware search engines do not use alt text in indexing in
practice any longer. There are a few points related to this, the main
reason why not to use it in indexing is to avoid 'non-visual stuffing',
which is a practice where a page is filled with keywords in an attempt
to aim a high ranking score on search engines. In order to not put
users off this text was often hidden in the alt text of images or in
text of the same colour as the background. To avoid genuine results
being offset by these techniques engines such as google largely ignore
alt text, and even metadata in the meta tags. The other issue is that
alt text is semantically dead. So while a 'real' text alternative as
provided by the object tag can contain markup with em , hX and so on
alt attribute text at the most can be one of these types if the images
tag is wrapped by it. (i.e. h1 img src="logo.jpg" alt="My company"
/ /h1 ). I might add that most of the internal workings of each search
engine are confidential and this is to some extent speculation.
Tom
Question: Do search engines really scan alt text given for
Lets try a simple test
http://www.google.com/search?
q=%22%5BFig%5D+Centred+elements+and+text%22
One hit (my site as it was the first one to come to mind with
reasonable alt text). The search text doesn't appear anywhere in the
document except in the alt text of the image.
(and no Google, I didn't - I'm English :D )
David Dorward
Ok, it's been awhile since I wrote mainly because I'm working with the
State of Oklahoma on their accessibility issues and the meetings happen
to coincide with our teleconference. So, please accept my apologies for
not making it to the WCAG WG meetings. I will return as soon as I can.
Now, onto this particular issue.
ALL search engines that use spiders/robots index using the ALT text.
Just because your test fails does not mean that you are correct. No
slighting here intended, but it is obvious to those that work in the
field of search engine optimization that you may not be aware that
Google has major problems right now. Any tests you perform on Google
currently my not work as it may have a few weeks ago nor as it may a few
weeks from now. Google has lost 100's of thousands of pages from their
index as a result of some major issues they are having.
Now, let's simply put the issue to bed. In the webmaster help sections
for each search engine they state that you should use ALT text to
include additional keywords. The problem with this broad statement is
that many of the unethical and rookie SEO companies spam the search
engines through the medium of ALT and TITLE attributes.
Of ALL the search engines I optimize for I have yet to find one that
uses the TITLE attribute, but all use the ALT attribute.
Now, let's go one step further. Just because a _jaded_ test fails
doesn't mean that your test is a good test. If it is not a word or
phrase that is normally searched upon, that word or phrase may not be
indexed as of yet. So, perhaps you can answer this question. With all
the pages in the world available to me to index, why would I waste space
with something so minor that the only place you put it is in your ALT
attribute? If I were a search engine, I wouldn't. If you think the
search engines are rolling through billions of pages upon every search
entered you're mistaken. Those searches are cached searches that their
system performs every few days.
I hope this helps.
Sincerely,
Lee Roberts
Question: Do search engines really scan alt text given for
Lets try a simple test
http://www.google.com/search?
q=%22%5BFig%5D+Centred+elements+and+text%22
One hit (my site as it was the first one to come to mind with
reasonable alt text). The search text doesn't appear anywhere in the
document except in the alt text of the image.
(and no Google, I didn't - I'm English :D )
David Dorward
images.google.com uses the alt-text of the image.
search for "photo of"
there are lots of images in the result, but pick one result:
short uri (of one of the resulting images): http://tinyurl.com/ynm3
and long uri:
The only place that "photo of" appears on this page [1] is in the alt-text
of the image.
[1] http://www.prairienet.org/upd/phillipsrecreationcenter.html
--wendy
Question: Do search engines really scan alt text given for
wendy a chisholm
world wide web consortium
web accessibility initiative
It looks like once you are actually in Google's Image search, alt text is
used in the search. However, if in Google's default search, alt tags are
not used for search purposes (at least this is what I found).
Doyle
Doyle Burnett
Education and Training Specialist
Multiple Disabilities Program
Special Education Service Agency
dburnett@sesa.org
Www.sesa.org
Question: Do search engines really scan alt text given for
