Does anyone know of content / news websites that are accessible or have
text-only / accessible alternatives.
Thanks
Steve
Steve Vosloo
Division Manager
Usability Junction
Cell: + 27 (0) 83 463 0012
Web: www.usabilityjunction.com
(although i'm not impressed that on the graphical
version at http://news.bbc.co.uk/ the text-only link
is rather difficult to find.)
iris
omnia mea mecum porto
Do you Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Mail Plus ? Powerful. Affordable. Sign up now.
UKOnline.gov.uk launched earlier this year. They have a newsroom section
which falls under their easy access channel. This UK government portal
has quite a few content types that are simultaniously mirrored and
updated across graphic and non graphic versions.
Also, both the graphical version and the easy access version have been
passed against RNIB and WAI Level A standards.
ciao,
Stephen
Does anyone know of content / news websites that are accessible or have
text-only / accessible alternatives.
Thanks
Steve
Steve Vosloo
Division Manager
Usability Junction
Cell: + 27 (0) 83 463 0012
Web: www.usabilityjunction.com
The BBC's text only content quality and findability is rather variable, e.g.,
there are no links to it from some of the World Service transcripts, even
though the pages exist, and, because the main pages have a very narrow
central column, are more suitable for printing.
The BBC also suffers because the text only page is only a mechanical
transformation of the graphical page.
Generally, it depends on individual authors being aware of the issues,
and this awareness drops off the further you get away from the centre
of the organisation.
I've found that ukonline is a very poor shadow of the original open.gov.uk,
which it replaces. I had to resort to Google to find a departmental
site, because the necessary indexing doesn't exist - even the last resort
of going to the site map produced only a minimal document. This would
have been relatively easy on the old open.gov.uk site. At the moment
I'd treat it as a dumbed down graphical site with a token text alternative.
My own view is that it shows the bad effects of governmental organisations
outsourcing to big commercial web site designers.
Why not go to Google and check out their news linkk? You probably have a
better chance at finding what you want by searching for a newsire, since
all the commercial news web sites are pretty graphics-intensive, and few
provide a text-only alternative that I have ever found. Of course, it is
easy to miss such a thing when there are a few hundred links and graphics
all smooshed on one page. Come to think of it, Salon.com is pretty
low-graphics.
kestrell
