Accidentally caught by the spam filter. I have added flowney@mail.gcsu.edu
to the accept2 list, but you should make sure you also cc him on any
responses.
- Jim
I was looking around the WebDAV site (www.webdav.org) for information
that guide me and my team to a strategy for deploying WebDAV among
our user base. I did not find what I was looking for so I'm
approaching this list w/ my questions. If these questions should go
elsewhere, please let me have an address.
Server environment: WebSTAR V on MacOS X Server 10.1.3
User base: A group of independent knowledge workers (university
faculty) with a heterogeneous array of tools and a highly variable
propensity to acquire new tools (every possible combination and
permutation of: some will, some won't, some can, some can't).
One of the things that I was hoping to find was a matrix of what
applications could be used on what platforms with what limitations.
For example, I have heard that Microsoft Office supports WebDAV but
it's unclear as to whether that statement refers to:
Mac: Office 2001 or Office X
Win: Office 2000 or Office XP
...and to what extent that support goes and how exactly one uses
these apps to work with a WebDAV server.
The second question I was looking for guidance on has to do with how
I might use WebDAV access with a fairly large group (50 or so) of
editors who all work on various parts of a single web site. The goal
is to give them access that is easier for them than FTP yet keeps
them apart (professor A cannot see or write to professor B's area and
vice-versa).
Thanks in advance for any light that you may be able to shed on this.
Dr. Frank Lowney flowney@mail.gcsu.edu
Director, Electronic Instructional Services, a unit of the
Office of Information and Instructional Technology,
Professional Pages: http://www.gcsu.edu/oiit/eis/
Personal Pages: http://www.faculty.de.gcsu.edu/~flowney
Voice: (478) 445-5260
We don't make instruction effective, we make effective instruction
more accessible.
Microsoft Office 2000 and XP support WebDAV on Windows platforms. This is
accessed via a feature called "Web Folders". An explanation of how to set up
and use Web Folders from the Windows file system can be found at:
From Office, once a Web Folder is created, you access it via the File ...
Open dialog box (a Web Folders icon is in the bottom left of the dialog
box).
Mac versions of Office do not support WebDAV, as far as I know. The Mac
version of Office is a distinct code base from the Windows version.
Mac OS X supports mapping a WebDAV server to a drive -- I can't find any
documentation on the net for how to do this. Office on the Mac can
read/write to a DAV-mapped drive.
A fairly complete list of DAV-supporting applications can be found at:
(About 1/2 way down the page).
Adobe DAV-supporting applications (Photoshop, Illustrator 10, Acrobat 5,
InDesign 2, others...) support DAV evenly across the Mac and Windows
platform.
This information would be great. We're a volunteer organization here, so if
you do develop this kind of information, we would gladly host it on
WebDAV.org.
You would map the information to spaces served by a DAV server, and then set
the local permissions in the DAV server such that only the appropriate
authors had access to specific areas (i.e., except for the being served by a
DAV server, the answer is much the same as for a local file system).
- Jim
From the Finder, use the "Go" menu and select "Connect to Server..."
(or just hit apple-K). Enter the URL that you want to connect to.
eg: http://www.my.org/naturalSciences/
You will be prompted for your username and password.
The finder-based DAV is very cool because it lets you use your DAV
server like a disk. But it doesn't support locking, last time I
checked. But Goliath does, and works on MacOS X.
That is really dependent on your server software, but you control DAV
access just like you control any other kind of access to your web
server.
cjh
And if the URL doesn't go to a WevDAV-enabled server directory (i.e.,
it's an URL to some random web page), the mount will fail with an error
19 (no device... the best error code we could map it to).
You'll be prompted only if the WevDAV-enabled server directory requires
authentication. For example, http://idisk.mac.com/jumplong/Public
requires no authentication.
The Mac OS X WebDAV file system does use the LOCK method.
DAV class 1 WebDAV servers are mounted as read-only volumes because the
LOCK method isn't required for class 1 resources.
DAV class 2 WebDAV servers are mounted as read-write volumes. On these
servers, when a file (resource) is opened with write access, the WebDAV
file system uses the LOCK method to acquire a lock on the file being
opened with a timeout of 10 minutes. If the lock cannot be acquired,
then the file cannot be opened with write access. The lock is refreshed
every 5 minutes until the file is closed. When the file is closed, the
UNLOCK method is used to unlock the file. The WebDAV file system does
not acquire a lock on files opened with read-only access.
Jim Luther
Apple Computer, Inc.
