This comment on the report tool was on wai-ig. Sorry for the redundancy
but I wanted to make sure folks saw it here and maybe start a thread.
Len
From: "Marti" marti47@MEDIAONE.NET
"WAI Interest Group" w3c-wai-ig@w3.org ,
"Leonard R. Kasday" kasday@acm.org
Subject: Re: I submit it to you? [Fwd: Re: Help with a Website]
Date: Sun, 22 Aug 1999 11:14:51 -0400
Good point Len, I had not looked at this tool until just now. It seems to
be a very good idea but it also would seem to require a fair amount of
testing and research on the part of the person sending it
If I received a form like this as a webmaster I might assume any unchecked
items were okay, when the person sending it was only reporting on one or two
things they observed. Could lead to a lot of confusion. It leaves me
wondering just what will be included in the message that goes to the
webmaster with my name on it.
Marti
As Judy Brewer mentioned a few emails back, the WAI Evaluation and Tools
group has a beta version of a report form for reporting such problems to
webmasters and creating a database of reports.
It's at http://www.w3.org/WAI/report/
How does it work for this site being discussed http://www.radiospirits.com
Len
should we tell users to get with it? I think not since they are using
in many cases a browser whose latest itteration was just built last
month. now, we can tell them to get that but that might not even be
under their controll.
thoughts please?
Subject: Re: Help with a Website
Date: Sat, 21 Aug 1999 22:32:54 -0700
From: Doug Kaufman dkaufman@RAHUL.NET
Unfortunately, the site uses javascript to submit the form, without
any alternative for non-javascript browsers. Try writing to them,
letting them know that this is unnecessary and causing them to lose
customers. They will need to change the site to make it accessible to
lynx.
Doug
I seem to be able to access it okay with LYNX, but what I can do is
somewhat limited. For instance, there appears to be a function where
one
can search for a specific show by typing in the name of that specific
show. While there is indeed a place to enter text, there appears to be
no
"form submit button" to go along with this. Not a big deal; I just want
to
Doug Kaufman
Internet: dkaufman@rahul.net (preferred)
bn900@cleveland.freenet.edu
Leonard R. Kasday, Ph.D.
Universal Design Engineer, Institute on Disabilities/UAP, and
Adjunct Professor, Electrical Engineering
Temple University
Ritter Hall Annex, Room 423, Philadelphia, PA 19122
kasday@acm.org
(215) 204-2247 (voice)
(800) 750-7428 (TTY)
Leonard R. Kasday, Ph.D.
Universal Design Engineer, Institute on Disabilities/UAP, and
Adjunct Professor, Electrical Engineering
Temple University
Ritter Hall Annex, Room 423, Philadelphia, PA 19122
kasday@acm.org
(215) 204-2247 (voice)
(800) 750-7428 (TTY)
Another comment I have is to "add" to the form a check box on whether or not I
want the web site added to the "database" . The reason is I'm testing the use
of the tool and may be evaluating a bogus site, and/or evaluating a real site,
but really testing the tool and not doing a through eval of the site. I am also
doing real evals of some sites and would want them added to the database even
though the tool is in beta...
Regards,
Phill Jenkins
Phill,
In Sophia, we talked a lot about how to network people who are doing
reviews. Sounds like your ideas on this would be very helpful.
Do a string search for "what to do" for a thumbnail view of the discussion.
Al
not I
use
site,
am also
