Reauthenticarion required revisited.
I'm not sure if this should really go to http-wg or http-ext,
so I ll post it here, and if it comes to a consensus, we can think about
bringing it to the wg for 1.1...
The big problem I saw with the reauth required is that while
the server can advise the client to ask the user for credentials
again, there is no way for the server to be sure that the client
really behaved and didnt just say "yeah, whatever" and send cached
creds. I propose a more generalized method of affecting this problem.
In english, what Id like to see go on is this:
Client is surfing along, and comes to URL A.
URLA is a script which performs an action.
for this example, that action is "grab a coke from the fridge"
1. Client requests a coke
2. server replies: go ask your mother first.
3. client asks mom "can I have a coke"
4. client repeats the request and along with the
request says: "I did what you asked, mom says OK"
5. server hands out a coke.
What Im looking at is not to verify that mom was actually asked,
but the client claims that it took action.
In http terms:
(As usual, excuse my bnf )
Introduce a new response header action-request:
action-request ":" ActionID "," "type" "=" value
ActionID = OpaqueString
value = "AUTH" | "EXEC" | "ECHO"
AUTH means reaquire the credentials for the realm used
on this request
EXEC means "execute" the content body, which presumably
is a script, ie javascript
ECHO perform no action, just echo the ActionID in the
next request to this URI
When this header is received with the 4xx code above,
the client should immediately perform the action indicated
and try the request again. (exact same request except for
inclusion of the action-reply header)
When received with a 200, and ECHO as the action, simply
send the actionID with action-reply for the next request
to the same URI only.
Introduce a new request header action-reply:
action-reply ":" ActionID
When re-sending a request due to 4xx preAction required,
include the ActionID to indicate acknowledgement.
Introduce response code 4xx preAction required
this response code must have an action-request header.
Essentially this is a server to client request acknowledgement
system.
The case in point for us is for a POST with a CGI where
the CGI wants the browser to go do something, like reauth
then repeat the same request.
This is needed because without it, the best we could hope
for was a redirect to itself (which the browsers today
are smart enough to not do), or use a meta refresh
(which would cause repost data? to pop up).
I beleive that in this case reposting the data is ok
without user intervention because the POST action is
declared to not complete, and the server is instructing
the client to "retry" the request. When using this
the CGI must not carry out the POST when returning
the 4xx code.
Your comments?
JC Reauthenticarion required revisited.
This discussion got all mixed up. The original requirement is that
the server wants the client to discard the current credentials (that
is, those used in the request to which this is a response).
There are (at least) three reasons why the server might want to do
this:
1) The server wishes to force the user to reenter credentials (it
has been too long, or too many requests since those credentials
were originally obtained - make sure the same human being is
still there). This would normally accompany a 401 response.
2) The user has indicated (by pushing a 'logout' button or
following an off-site link of some kind) that the authenticated
part of the session is over; the server wants the user agent to
get the credentials out of cache so that new ones will be
obtained next time (eg. student is doing registration for
next semester from a public browser - pushes the 'commit
schedule' button). Most often will accompany a 2xx response.
This is the one that people on the CGI newsgroups ask for
several times a week.
3) Those credentials are known by the server to be no longer valid
(the password just got changed). This might be either a positive
or negative response.
This also serves to illustrate that the feature should not be a
status code.
JC Introduce a new response header action-request:
JC action-request ":" ActionID "," "type" "=" value
JC ActionID = OpaqueString
JC value = "AUTH" | "EXEC" | "ECHO"
JC AUTH means reaquire the credentials for the realm used
JC on this request
Not general enough; does not cover cases 2 or 3 above.
JC EXEC means "execute" the content body, which presumably
JC is a script, ie javascript
And if I (the user) don't allow execution of arbitrary code shipped
to my browser by strangers (no, I don't have Java enabled)?
JC ECHO perform no action, just echo the ActionID in the
JC next request to this URI
Yet another form of cookie?
JC Essentially this is a server to client request acknowledgement
JC system.
And why is that any more assurance that it actually did anything
than you had before? (the kid can still _claim_ to have asked Mom)
Scott Lawrence EmWeb Embedded Server lawrence@agranat.com
Agranat Systems, Inc. Engineering http://www.agranat.com/
Josh Cohen:
I find myself wondering why we need the extra headers you proposed.
Can't your needs for server to client request acknowledgement be
satisfied already by a system in which the server sends a html response
with an embedded script, which then contacts the server?
I tend to agree with Scott that server to client request
acknowledgement has little to do with the original `reauthentication
requested' problem.
Koen.
