4) If new text is inserted within the body of the Old message.
a) Mark all new text with author initials followed by a
colon (e.g GV: or GK:)
BE CONSISTENT so that a person using a screen reader
can use text search
to find all your comments.
b) Mention at top of message that you have done so. For
example:
My comments are below marked with GV:
I have a couple of questions
1. In a case like this where I start off by quoting the original
email, what's the best way to quote and add my comments? What I've done
here is use the usual greater than sign. I've also inserted a phrase "I
have a couple of questions" to indicate where what I'm saying starts.
2. When we mark our comments with our intitials, are you saying
that we mark each line with our initials, for examples
LRK: Now is the time for all good men
LRK: to come to the aid of their country.
This adds reading clutter it seems to me. Also, the first
sentence runs into the second LRK. Would some other convention be
better, e.g. to enclose the text by e.g. "LRK start" and "LRK end".
(Insert your own initials of course, grin). Here's how it looks and
sounds:
LRK start: Now is the time for all good men
to come to the aid of their country.
LRK end.
This is also easier to type.
Len
kasday@att.com phone 732 949 2693
Leonard R. Kasday
Room 1L-333
AT&amp;T Laboratories
101 Crawfords Corner Rd.
Holmdel NJ 07733
The only addition I might make to this is to precede the initials with
something like an asterisk or a greater than. Now, if there are additions
to the document by more than one person, you can search for all additions by
searching for the asterisks or greater thans.
4) If new text is inserted within the body of the Old message.
a) Mark all new text with author initials followed by a
BE CONSISTENT so that a person using a screen reader
to find all your comments.
b) Mention at top of message that you have done so. For
My comments are below marked with GV:
Neal Ewers
Field Coordinator
Trace Research and Development Center
Waisman Center, room S153
1500 Highland Avenue
University of Wisconsin-Madison 53705
FTP, Gopher and WWW servers at: trace.wisc.edu
For a list of our listserve discussions send lists to:
listproc@trace.wisc.edu
[Leonard Kasday]
Hmm... quote src="LRK" ... /quote , anyone? If you're going to be
adding text anyway, why invent a new syntax?
But I think what Gregg was referring to is something already done by
some mail user agents, using the initials for the *quoted* message:
LRK This adds reading clutter it seems to me. Also, the first
LRK sentence runs into the second LRK. Would some other convention be
-Chris
!ENTITY crism PUBLIC "-//O'Reilly//NONSGML Christopher R. Maden//EN"
URL http://www.oreilly.com/people/staff/crism/ TEL +1.617.499.7487
LRK's reply:
No, actually what Gregg and George said was, quote,
If new text is inserted within the body of the Old message.
... Mark all new text with author initials followed by a colon (e.g
GV: or GK:)
unquote.
To which I suggested just marking the beginning and end to reduce verbal
clutter.
I like Neal's suggestion of a character to search on to find new
comments. We'd need a character that's rarely used though. Maybe
curley brackets {} ?
I'm also sympathetic with Jim's caution about changing what people are
used to.
Len
Hello List,
Leonard had a question about replying to a message and then inserting
information.
We mean this to be very simple.
1. a person replies to the message and this normally inserts a  sign to
the left side of the message.
2. Go to the top of the message and state that you want to insert comments
and that you will use your initials before each comment. GWK: is what I
normally use.
3. Where you want to make a comment I put GWK: and then go on for as long
as necessary. I don't put GWK: at the beginning of each line. The person
knows the inserted information is over, because you then bump into the
again.
I normally say, "in the above information" or "in the information that
follows" This gives the person a clue that you are referring to what is
above or below your comment.
When I read such a message, I end up reading the first part and then
search for the initials followed by the colon. This saves a ton of time
especially on long messages. I use this technique when people ask me to
review large documents and proposals as well.
Hope this is helpful.
Best
George
Best
George
George Kerscher, Project Manager
PM to the DAISY Consortium
Recording For the Blind &amp; Dyslexic
Good points George, There is, however, one slight problem. When you said in
your message,
"The person knows the inserted information is over, because you then bump
into the  again."
I had to change the punctuation level of my screen reader in order to hear
the greater than sign pronounced. True, if I knew I was going to have to
look for that sign, I could possibly put up with hearing all the other
unwanted punctuation just to hear the greater than sign. It might, however,
be preferable to some to choose a character which is spoken when the least
amount of punctuation is turned on in the greatest number of screen readers.
This is why, in an earlier post, I suggested an asterisk. In the number of
screen readers I have used, this is one of a number of commonly pronounced
symbols in the condition stated above. Of course, there are others that
could be chosen also.
Neal Ewers
Field Coordinator
Trace Research and Development Center
Waisman Center, room S153
1500 Highland Avenue
University of Wisconsin-Madison 53705
FTP, Gopher and WWW servers at: trace.wisc.edu
For a list of our listserve discussions send lists to:
listproc@trace.wisc.edu
for as long
The person
into the
LRK: I understand now. That's very simple to do, and I'm going start
using it everywhere.
LRK: sure is. Thanks!
Len
George:
Thanks for clearing up my misunderstanding. This all sounds very
reasonable and workable. Sorry for not understanding this the first time
through.
-- Jim
Couple of answers or rather proposals.
1) As George noted It was our intent to have the initials appear ONLY at
the beginning of the message. And then only when you are inserting text
within the body of old text. If you are only inserting one
paragraph, just mark the front end of it. The end of the paragraph
indicates the end of the comment.
2) if inserting multiple paragraphs of text you can use
Start GV:
And
End GV:
To indicate the beginning and end. In this fashion you don't need to set
your screen reader to read greater than signs (which messes up your ability
to read the rest of the text in the message). If you just see someones
initials in front of a paragraph, they have just inserted one paragraph.
If they insert enough that they feel they need to break it up into
paragraphs they can mark the beginning and the end.
3) In answer to the other question,
Including just a chunk of someone else's text would be handled by
On a line by itself just in front of what someone else wrote.
You can then either put
End of Tom Thompson
Or
My Response
Or
GV:
Or anything else that seems logical or that your email program adds to the
start of yours text. It isn't critical what you write at the start of
your comments each time unless you are doing lots of them throughout and
you want people to be able to jump to your additions. if you want them to
jump to them you should use GV:
4) Neal suggested that there be a unique character in front of all initials
so that you could jump to the start of each and every persons.
My response: Good suggestion Neal. However rather than having to type
unique characters before and after the intials, what if you just used two
semicolons after the initials as in GV semicolon, semicolon.
GV::
It would be unique.
It would be easy to type.
Would it cause more verbal clutter with synthesizers if they hit a double
colon? That is, do they just pause at a single colon but pronounce a
double colon or something? Can people advise? Or suggest some simple,
easy to type but unique character? Maybe a right square bracket then the
initials and a colon. Right brackets usually do not appear as the first
character of a line. (left square brackets maybe but not usually right
square brackets.)
We need to keep this simple of course.
Any other suggestions for ways to address this that are simple yet
effective with most screen readers?
Gregg
