Paul Grosso has very kindly shared the language that he used when
registering the SGML Open catalog (along with a tip that could save us
a few months in getting this approved). I have spliced Paul's SGML
Open language in below with some questions for our MIME experts.
Jon
Subject: Registration of MIME media type text/xml
MIME media type name: text
MIME subtype name: xml
Required parameters: none
Optional parameters: charset
Here is what Paul said for SGML Open catalogs:
For use over the Internet, a catalog may use only a single character
repertoire. (A character repertoire describes a set of characters,
where a character is an atom of information. A character repertoire
does not describe any of the common attributes typically associated
with a character such as the character's form or coded representation.
For example, the letter capital cee is a character, it can take the
form C and has the US-ASCII coded representation of 67 decimal.)
The mapping from the sequence of octets making up the message body,
to the sequence of characters making up the catalog, is indicated by
the charset parameter of the Content-Type MIME header line [RFC1521].
The value of the charset parameter must be one that is registered
with IANA [RFC1700], or employ an extension-token, such as X-big10.
In general, it should be possible to infer the character repertoire
and coded character set from the name of the encoding.
If no value is supplied, the default shall be US-ASCII.
Do we want to say the same thing?
Encoding considerations: the primary encodings are UTF-8 and UCS-2,
but other common encoding schemes such as SJIS are also allowed.
UTF-8 is the default.
Here is what Paul said for catalogs:
Encoding considerations: Some encodings of coded character sets may
require that an additional
content-transfer-encoding be applied.
Do we want to say the same thing?
Security considerations: the security considerations associated with
text/plain apply.
Obviously just punting. Paul has:
Security considerations: This media type contains SGML references to
external object, files, and programs. Its use
does present security implications due to the
access of these entities by SGML systems.
However, these security concerns are the same as
those for the operation of any SGML system and
are addressed in the SGML specifications.
The same would apply to XML, right?
Interoperability considerations: the interoperability considerations
associated with text/plain apply.
Same here. Paul said:
Interoperability considerations: The specification for this media type
(see "Published specification" below) provides
for extensions by allowing for other information,
i.e., keyword, argument+ pairs. The usefulness
of such other information will depend on the range
of recognition of each such extension. However,
the specification indicates that a processor of
this media type shall be able to process a catalog
even if it does not recognize the meaning of such
an extension.
The first part of this looks like it might be recyclable.
Published specification: Extensible Markup Language (XML), W3C Working
Draft 14-Nov-96 (http://www.w3.org/pub/WWW/TR/WD-xml-961114.html; also
ftp://sunsite.unc.edu/pub/sun-info/standards/xml/spec/xml.ps.gz, etc.)
A couple of people have pointed out that XML does indeed hava a
"magic number" (see below).
Additional information:
Magic number(s): ?xml
File extension(s): xml
Macintosh File Type Code(s): none
Person and email address to contact for further information:
Jon Bosak, jon.bosak@sun.com
Intended usage: COMMON
Authors/Change controllers:
Tim Bray, tbray@textuality.com
C. M. Sperberg-McQueen, U35395@UICVM.UIC.EDU
I would recommend having charset be required, and also having an
optional language field.
OK.
Jon
