Hi, I tried fleshing out a sample technique topic (3.1.2(18) - Style
Sheets), and the
attached has a sample scenario and a few additional detailed
techniques. Is this
a reasonable approach? If so I can tackle other topics? If these
techniques are
to be used in any way to satisfy conformance claims in the future, it would
seem to
me that they may be "normative" in some sense..
Some questions when I was doing this exercise:
(1) How detailed should the techniques language be?
(2) Suppose the user specifies a request for prompting and assistance that
the tool
is not able to satisfy? Should there be some sort of negotiation involved
then?
(3) Should the user be given the option to "ignore" any assisting messages and
still claim conformance (since the idea is that prompts/assists should
promote a
positive attitude towards accessibility in the user , but the user already
knows
about accessibility and doesn't want any extraneous messages?)?
Thanks and best wishes, Tim Boland NIST
To reply to your questions.
1) Given that these are illustrative suggestions the more detail the
better as long as the detail does not constrain the approach taken
and as long as we make it clear that this is one possible approach
and not the only possible approach.
2) This is a good question we should discuss in the group. Several
members have felt that if we suggest ways to not do what is requested
but to compensate for the lack of compliance we may be giving
developers an easy way out.
3) We have agreed that the user has the last say. If they wish to
turn off any of the features there has to be a way to do it.
Jutta
Hi, I tried fleshing out a sample technique topic (3.1.2(18) - Style
Sheets), and the
attached has a sample scenario and a few additional detailed
techniques. Is this
a reasonable approach? If so I can tackle other topics? If these
techniques are
to be used in any way to satisfy conformance claims in the future, it
would seem to
me that they may be "normative" in some sense..
Some questions when I was doing this exercise:
(1) How detailed should the techniques language be?
(2) Suppose the user specifies a request for prompting and assistance
that the tool
is not able to satisfy? Should there be some sort of negotiation
involved then?
(3) Should the user be given the option to "ignore" any assisting messages and
still claim conformance (since the idea is that prompts/assists
should promote a
positive attitude towards accessibility in the user , but the user
already knows
about accessibility and doesn't want any extraneous messages?)?
Thanks and best wishes, Tim Boland NIST
Attachment converted: newMacintosh HD:atag3.htm (TEXT/text) (00051632)
Hi Tim,
Jutta responded to your questions, so I'll concentrate on your attached
doc. The points made look very good. The only change I would make is to
to move some of the points into other related sections (ex. "assistance
on properly creating null alt-text to promote accessible content"
probably makes more sense in 3.1.2(1): Short text labels).
Cheers,
Jan
Jan Richards, M.Sc.
User Interface Design Specialist
Adaptive Technology Resource Centre (ATRC), University of Toronto
Web: http://jan.atrc.utoronto.ca
