Hello,
I'm a TSA from RBC, I am responsible for making web pages at RBC accessible.
My question is If I follow the guidelines from W3C at
does it make the application screen reader compliant?
Also, if the developers follow the W3C guidelines, do they still need to do
additional development to make it
JAWS accessible?
We are using JAWS 3.7 at Royal Bank of Canada.
Your help is greatly appreciated.
Thank you.
Toan Tran
Technical System Analyst
Architecture Support - IT Architecture
This e-mail may be privileged and/or confidential, and the sender does not waive any related rights and obligations. Any distribution, use or copying of this e-mail or the information it contains by other than an intended recipient is unauthorized. If you received this e-mail in error, please advise me (by return e-mail or otherwise) immediately.
Ce courriel est confidentiel et prot?g?. L'exp?diteur ne renonce pas aux droits et obligations qui s'y rapportent. Toute diffusion, utilisation ou copie de ce message ou des renseignements qu'il contient par une personne autre que le (les) destinataire(s) d?sign?(s) est interdite. Si vous recevez ce courriel par erreur, veuillez m'en aviser imm?diatement, par retour de courriel ou par un autre moyen.
Toan,
The requirements in UAAG 1.0 for assistive technology compatibility are in
Guideline 6 of the document. The references for the details of
compatibility with a particular assistive technology are found in the
techniques document.
Jon
Jon Gunderson, Ph.D., ATP
Coordinator of Assistive Communication and Information Technology
Division of Rehabilitation - Education Services
MC-574
College of Applied Life Studies
University of Illinois at Urbana/Champaign
1207 S. Oak Street, Champaign, IL 61820
Voice: (217) 244-5870
E-mail: jongund@uiuc.edu
WWW: http://www.staff.uiuc.edu/~jongund
WWW: http://www.w3.org/wai/ua
Hi Toan,
I read your question slightly differently. Are you asking whether
by following the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 1.0 [1]
you are doing enough to allow screen readers to use your pages?
If that's your question, then the answer is largely "yes". By
following the requirements of WCAG 1.0 regarding, for example,
text equivalents (checkpoint 1.1), you will help users with
screen readers. (I use that expression rather than "screen
reader compliant" since that sounds like the screen readers
are conforming to a particular specification.)
I hope this is helpful,
- Ian
[1] http://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG10/
Ian Jacobs (ij@w3.org) http://www.w3.org/People/Jacobs
