Here is a writeup of the problem and the desiderata.
We've spent a lot of time banging heads on whether tidy or untidy is to be
preferred.
Please could we take a little time to take a fresh look at what we are
trying to accomplish and see whether there might be another solution which
would give more of what we want than either tidy or untidy.
I note that the main concerns I've seen so far from the untidy camp are:
o redundancy of specifying datatype on every element
o easily adding datatype info to old data
Long range datatyping is a solution to meet those needs. Perhaps they can
be met in another way that is compatible with the tidy entailment.
Brian
The Issue
Given the following RDF/XML
Do Jenny and John have the same age? It may appear obvious that they
do. But consider a similar example:
Though the title of the film and the age of Jenny are both written as an
rdf literal "10", it can be argued that the meaning of the statement about
Jenny's age is that her age is the integer 10, and the meaning of the
statement about the title of the film is that it is the string of
characters "10". If that is what they mean then the age of Jenny is not
the same as the title of the film.
The formal definition of this question is whether, given the second of the
RDF fragments above, entails (implies) the following (expressed in n-triples):
jenny foo:age _:l .
film foo:title _:l .
Desiderata
This is an issue that requires a judgement between different options. The
WG has not found a solution to satisfy all desirable features. Rather than
trying to state precise requirements it is better to define the
considerations that bear on that judgement.
General
GD01: Inline literals - @@clarify what this means
GD02: Interoperability [Ed note: I've added that one in the light
Patrick's proposal to say nothing]
Use
UD01: Verbosity of expressing datatyped literals in the RDF/XML
syntax. [Note eventually rdf/xml will be written by tools, but for
bootstrapping, users see it]
UD02: CC/PP schema should not have to change
UD03: Support from RDF customers including daml/webont, rss, cc/pp, dublin
core, Adobe XMP, DMOZ, mozilla and Jena.
UD04: the ability to put, in a schema, constraints on the *lexical form* of
values (gravy, not requirement)
UD05: It should be easy to update legacy data with datatype information
UD06: Must be able to merge duplicate statements with the same literal
value as object (when there is an applicable range constraint and when
there is not)
UD07: Minimize the number of nodes and arcs to represent a datatype value
(scalability)
UD08: Support xml schema datatypes
UD09: Need mechanism to enable queries based on datatype values (before,
after, during re dates; lessthan, gtr than)
UD10: Global type inference - this is a solution - need to figure out the need
UD11: Backward compatibility for existing data and specs (dc, cc/pp, rss)
UD12: Capture as much of the information as possible in the RDF (e.g. if
its an integer, RDF should know its an integer)
UD13: It should be easy to explain to users.
Implementation
ID01: Minimize burden on implementors
ID02: Monotonic and sound model theory. Complete inference is not required.
ID03: Convincing evidence that the solution is implementable
ID04: Do not require implementations to maintain a hash table of literals.
UD05: not have to keep track of each different occurrence of some literal
UD06: Backward compatibility: existing implementations and applications
should be able to upgrade in a backward compatible way
Process
PD01: Speed - the WG needs to finish soon
Other
OD01: an endorsement of the practice of using datatype properties, i.e. [
xsdt:date "2002-09-23"]. (gravy, not a requirement)
Brian--
I don't mean to overly-complicate things, but it's not clear to me that
your expression of the issues captures all the variants involved (maybe
you're trying to do one thing at a time?). I may be wrong, but it seems
to be that we also need to ask something like the following questions as
well (or at least to have these kinds of questions in mind when deciding
on our answers):
a. what is the answer given the following RDF/XML
[in particular, does this result in "Jenny and John have the same age",
"Jenny and John have different ages", or "I can't tell"]
b. is the answer the same given the following RDF/XML
together with a schema declaration
--Frank
Frank Manola The MITRE Corporation
202 Burlington Road, MS A345 Bedford, MA 01730-1420
Thanks Brian, I think (along with Frank's suggestion) I think is very
helpful for focusing the discussions...
A quick clarification just to sync with my memory of things...
I recall the RDF schema change here was not as much a desire and the
actual instance data. Graham, can you confirm?
eric miller http://www.w3.org/people/em/
semantic web activity lead http://www.w3.org/2001/sw/
w3c world wide web consortium http://www.w3.org/
