Hi,
My apologies if this subject has been discussed before, or if the behaviour
I'm about to describe is by design, but the archive search doesn't appear to
be working at the moment.
I notice that Amaya, and at least one other browser (IE 5.5) seem to delay
rendering a new page until a certain number of bytes have been received.
If you have a dynamic page that outputs (streams?) small chunks of data at
intervals, it can take a very long time before you see anything.
As a nasty yet practical solution, I simply pad the page out to the required
size by putting useless junk into meta tags, and bingo, the page loads
instantly and I get to see the events rendered as they arrive.
At least one version of Netscape, and of Opera are able to render
immediately a page that is dynamically outputting small amounts of data. IE
5.5 only exhibits the delay when coming to the page from another page..
strangely it renders the events immediately if a refresh is done. So IE
behaves a little better than Amaya in this regard, also it's buffer appears
to be in the order of 300 - 400 bytes as opposed to a whopping 1k.
Anyway, it strikes me that unless you want to encourage people like me to do
ghastly things like padding headers to make these sorts of pages snappier -
then buffering so much data before rendering is something that should be
avoided.
Regards,
Julian
Hi Julian,
Amaya is mainly an editor with some browsing features.
The feature you requested takes less importance in that context.
Of course that the Amaya developing team has all the right in specifying what
is and what is of no importance to the development of Amaya,
in spite of what Irene said a few weeks ago: ?I let people decide what is
good for us.? ;-)
The excuse of Amaya being mainly an HTML editor has been given many times.
And I admit it is more than an excuse! It is a reason for doing one thing and
for not doing the other.
However, sometimes, I find difficult to understand how some suggested
features are so easily accepted and quickly implemented, compared to others.
For example, just a couple of weeks ago, someone suggested that Amaya should
have an option for saving a file with CR+LF, instead of just LF. The Amaya
team immediately accepted the suggestion and promised the feature for the
next version! Although this is really on the editor side of Amaya, it is a
completely unnecessary feature (by Jove, who still uses notepad?...)
Back to the present issue. My interest in Amaya is that it is both an
(WYSIWYG) editor and a browser. A request such as the present, regarding the
usability of Amaya as a browser, seems to me very reasonable! Why do you find
it so uninteresting to so quickly dismiss the idea? (I would accept more
easily an answer such as: "Changing the rendering buffering system is far to
hard to implement at present, and can not be considered a priority,
considering that Amaya is primarily an editor tool".
At one point I have to agree: the Amaya team should really endeavour to make
Amaya a USEFUL and STABLE editor, as soon as possible, and not waste time
with absolutely useless features!
Keep up the work
Jos?
J. Magalh?es Cruz--- jmcruz@fe.up.pt ---
Unfortunately we have to make choices because we don't have the manpower to
satisfy all requests. Developing HTML, SVG, MathML, RDF, CSS, and XML supports
for both Unix and Windows platforms represents an important charge for a 4
people team. That explains why our implementations are not complete and some
useful features are not provided yet.
I agree this feature was not absolutely necessary, but it was not the first
time
we received the request for saving a file with CR+LF and it didn't represent
an
important investment for us as we were updating this part of the code.
We didn't quickly dismiss the idea. We experimented that feature first but it
generated synchronization troubles and we know that these kinds of trouble are
no easily fixed. It's why we stopped investment in that direction.
