aloha, ian &amp; jon!
while i know that the focus is now firmly upon the Guidelines document
itself, i am still concerned about the lack of long descriptions for the
screen shots that have been embedded into the Techniques document, as i
believe it would be unconscionable for the UA WG to issue a document on
accessibility without following accessible authoring practices...
i have prepared 2 long descriptions for the screen snapshots which i
provided for the Techniques document, and in doing so, developed what i
believe to be a workable template for others to provide long descriptions
of the screen shots that they have contributed...
this is an issue that i am ready to take a strong stand on, for to
distribute a Techniques document that includes screen shots that lack long
descriptions would set an extremely poor precedent... in effect, we would
be telling others to do as WCAG says, but don't let it bother you that the
WAI itself doesn't always adhere to WCAG to the greatest extent possible....
ian, i realize that you are one over-burdened individual, and i am amazed
by, and grateful for, all of the work, dedication, persistence and
perseverance that you continually display... however, i am concerned that,
in the rush to get the document out, logistics have forced a certain amount
of corner-cutting -- in particular a failure to provide textual equivalents
that fully convey the content and purpose of the graphic when an
understanding of the detail contained in that graphic is essential to a
complete understanding of the concept being conveyed by the text of the
document in conjunction with the graphic... moreover, simple D-links and
use of the "longdesc" attribute in the HTML version of the Techniques is
clearly insufficient -- the content of the longdesc files should be
included inline in the plain text version of the Techniques document, where
currently only the ALT text defined for the screen shots appears...
i don't believe that it is your individual responsibility to provide
longdescs for all of the illustrations included in the Techniques document
-- clearly, it is the responsibility of the individuals who have provided
screen shots for inclusion into the Techniques document to also provide
long descriptions of those screen shots... it was with that thought in
mind that i consciously created a template that could be recycled in order
to provide longdescs for the other graphical elements in the Techniques
document...
and so, at the risk of incurring the wrath of the process wonks, i'm
attaching copies of the proposed longdesc files to this emessage, as a
means of getting the WG's input as to whether or not they think this is a
worthwhile endeavor to pursue... the references to the TR stylesheets in
the doc source is absolute, so when the attached are archived in the
w3c-wai-ua hyperarchive the stylesheets should be applied
correctly... some of what i've included in my longdescs could, perhaps,
find a more appropriate home elsewhere in the Techniques document, or even
in the Implementation document, but i included everything i believed
necessary to explain the content of the screen shot and the functionality
associated with each control illustrated by the screen shot...
if the underlying template could be worked into your script, would it be
possible to include the attached (or some edited version thereof) in the
Techniques document? could anyone who has submitted, or who is planning on
submitting, a screen shot for the Techniques document please also submit a
detailed description of the contents of the screen shot as well? at the
very least, they could be incorporated into the plain text version of the
Techniques now, and added as actual D-linked (as well as longdesc-linked)
long descriptions when the script is adjusted to accomodate longdescs
gregory
ACCOUNTABILITY, n. The mother of caution.
-- Ambrose Bierce, _The Devil's Dictionary_
Gregory J. Rosmaita unagi69@concentric.net
Camera Obscura http://www.hicom.net/~oedipus/index.html
VICUG NYC http://www.hicom.net/~oedipus/vicug/
Read 'Em &amp; Speak http://www.hicom.net/~oedipus/books/
aloha, again!
there was a slight bug in the document source with the jump-to link defined
for the "Skip Nav Bar" link in the long description i recently posted for
the JFW List of Links screen shot, which has been fixed in the attached
file.... i apologize for the error (and wasted bandwidth) and am living
proof that one should read one's own tag lines!
gregory.
ACCOUNTABILITY, n. The mother of caution.
-- Ambrose Bierce, _The Devil's Dictionary_
Gregory J. Rosmaita unagi69@concentric.net
Camera Obscura http://www.hicom.net/~oedipus/index.html
VICUG NYC http://www.hicom.net/~oedipus/vicug/
Read 'Em &amp; Speak http://www.hicom.net/~oedipus/books/
Gregory,
The long description issue is one of the issues we will be discussing at
today telecon. I must say your proposals are long descriptions and we can
discuss today what types of long descriptions are needed for different
types of images used in the document.
Jon
Jon Gunderson, Ph.D., ATP
Coordinator of Assistive Communication and Information Technology
Chair, W3C WAI User Agent Working Group
Division of Rehabilitation - Education Services
College of Applied Life Studies
University of Illinois at Urbana/Champaign
1207 S. Oak Street, Champaign, IL 61820
Voice: (217) 244-5870
E-mail: jongund@uiuc.edu
WWW: http://www.staff.uiuc.edu/~jongund
WWW: http://www.w3.org/wai/ua
