1. Processed most of the last call issue at last weeks FTF meeting. Just a
few small items to finalize and we should be done with the issues.
2. Checkpoints are becoming much clearer on what are minimal requirements
and what is needed by people with disabilities.
3. Group is expecting to return UAAG to last call sometime late in March,
probably for about 2 weeks.
4. A small number of checkpoint requirements do not have documented
implementation experience and if implementation experience cannot be found
the document will need to go to Candidate Recommendation or ask for an
exception from the director.
5. We had participation from Netscape at the FTF meeting, no participation
from Microsoft during the FTF (there was suppose to be telephone
participation).
6. Coordination issues
a. Scripting: We spent a lot of time on scripting issues
b. Documentation: We need information on how people with disabilities are
more dependent on documentation than people without disabilities.
c. Developer input to the document seems much more serious during last
call, than during the preparation of the document for last call. This
results in extending the time in moving the document to recommendation.
Jon Gunderson, Ph.D., ATP
Coordinator of Assistive Communication and Information Technology
Division of Rehabilitation - Education Services
MC-574
College of Applied Life Studies
University of Illinois at Urbana/Champaign
1207 S. Oak Street, Champaign, IL 61820
Voice: (217) 244-5870
E-mail: jongund@uiuc.edu
WWW: http://www.staff.uiuc.edu/~jongund
WWW: http://www.w3.org/wai/ua
6. Coordination issues
b. Documentation: We need information on how people with disabilities are
more dependent on documentation than people without disabilities.
The American Foundation for the Blind published some survey results from
their "advanced users" - people who are blind and know what they are doing.
Apparently almost all regularly used documentation, and almost all had
difficulties with it. Unfortunately thye moved the thing on the Web so I
don't know where it is, but it is a repeat of an earlier study done.
The basic principle doesn't seem too complex. If you can't find out where
everything is and how it interacts by looking at it, then the documentation
is your source for knowing how things work. For some tasks it is the only
source. When it isn't there or isn't accessible you're stuck. A negative
example is MouseKeys on the Apple - it is possible to get the control panel
that does it, but there is no help so I have not been able to use the
feature to do some important things. (I had to get help from Jon to figure
out how it works at all, and I don't suppose he wants to answer every user's
question every time...)
cheers
Charles McCN
If anyone has the actual AFB document (especially a URL) or any other
supporting materials related to people with disabilities being more
dependent documentation than people without disabilities this is very
important. Right now the group is split on the issue. Developers feel the
requirement of documentation to be WCAG double-A compliant is too high as a
priority 1 requirement in UAAG and others say that the WCAG double-A
priority requirement should be triple-A. Two conflicting minority opinions
have been documented on this issue representing these two
positions. Independent documentation may help remove at least one of the
minority opinions when the document is advanced to CR or PR.
We don't need any more "its pretty simple from my point of view"
statements, we have plenty in the working group minutes from both sides of
the issue. What we need is some independent documentation based on some
type of survey or study of users.
Thanks,
Jon
Jon Gunderson, Ph.D., ATP
Coordinator of Assistive Communication and Information Technology
Division of Rehabilitation - Education Services
MC-574
College of Applied Life Studies
University of Illinois at Urbana/Champaign
1207 S. Oak Street, Champaign, IL 61820
Voice: (217) 244-5870
E-mail: jongund@uiuc.edu
WWW: http://www.staff.uiuc.edu/~jongund
WWW: http://www.w3.org/wai/ua
