Hmm..
I just read the DOM Specification through and a question came to my
head:
If I have understood correctly the documents being altered with
the DOM model are being parsed and put into a tree-like structure so that
e.g.
DIV H1 Heading /H1 P Some text and a IMG SRC="Image" /P P More
text /P /DIV
Would be a tree with the DIV-element as it's root
DIV: H1, P(1), IMG, P(2)
H: "Heading"
P(1): "Some text and a"
IMG: "Image"
P(2): "More text"
Now to the question... How would the following HTML be parsed?
is it
a)
P: "How would", B, "be parsed?"
B: "This"
or
b)
P: "How would B this /B be parsed?"
Heikki Vesalainen * hvesalai@cc.hut.fi * http://www.clinet.fi/~wes
It's Not Here - Wisdom is Above!
[snip]
I'm not sure I understand; is the issue that the "B" tag is "really" for
procedural markup rather than being structural?
In any event, the DOM doesn't get into this; HTML tags should parse into a
DOM element object. The representation of text in the DOM is a subject of
dispute, but as it stands now,a DOM-aware parser should produce a tree
something like:
HTMLDocument
P
"How would" B " be parsed?"
"this"
In words, since my ASCII drawing may get reformattted ... there is
an HTMLDocument object that contains one P element. The P element has 3
children, a TextNode with the string "How would ", a B element, and another
text node containing the string " be parsed?". The B element has one
child, a TextNode containing the string "this".
Does this answer the question?
Mike Champion
Hi,
I use the following notation for trees: "Father: 1. Child, 2. Child, ...".
Yes... You got my point... As the element B of HTML has nothing to do
with the structure of a document, it sounds a bit funny (to me) that it
would then be represented in the way it is...
I mean it's no problem - you can allways have an iterator that travels
trough the tree of elements and returns allways the next string found,
but e.g. in this case instead of returning the string "How would This be
parsed?", it would return first "How would" then "This" and last "be
parsed?" which of course has a different meaning to some utilities
(users) then the first.
Well... If you think I'm complitely lost, just tell me!
Heikki Vesalainen * hvesalai@cc.hut.fi * http://www.clinet.fi/~wes
It's Not Here - Wisdom is Above!
