Dear Sirs,
I am blind and I use to validate the html files I make using the HTML Tidy.
The program shows me some accessibility errors that i don't want to correct.
I've asked a lot of blind computer users and I couldn't find anyone to like
finding a default text in a form field.
The modern screen readers can read the screen and don't need information
like table caption, or defining the row headers, etc.
There are a lot other things the blind users don't need and don't like.
I think you should rethink the accessibility validation.
I am not thinking only to Windows users that are using the best screen
reader.
I also used links for Linux, and lynx but I still don't like to hear that
text there in the form fields.
Anyway, the Unix graphical interface is now accessible for the blind, and a
screen reader for this interface will be ready soon.
If the screen reader can read the text which is before the form fields, like
a sighted person do, it can translate the text to speech, or to print that
text on a Braille display, etc.
Now about my problem.
Tidy DBG tell me that it found a lot of errors and that not all errors are
shown.
This is a problem because maybe there are other errors (not shown) that I
would like to correct.
However, to be able to do that, I need to correct those errors I don't want
to correct first.
Can you let the program to correct all the errors?
Thank you.
Teddy's Center: http://teddy.fcc.ro/
Mail: orasnita@home.ro
Octavian,
Regarding the first section of your note, I think that what you are saying
is largely a matter of opinion. In any case, it will need to be taken up
with the standards authorities, possibly via your national association. The
HTML Tidy volunteer team are only attempting to implement those standards
which are defined.
Regarding Unix, one has to remember that Linux is not the only fruit.
Regarding the second section, as I understand it, the accessibility checking
is an optional part of the Tidy build as is the Asian languages support so
it would be practical to compile a version without these features.
Certainly, for my own build (the one for Win32 MinGW available from the
project page), I have compiled it without them at the moment, although I am
considering generating alternate binary options in the future.
Rick Parsons
Bristol, England
Hi Octavian,
Sorry I missed your post earlier. You can force Tidy to produce output,
even if there are errors. Use the option: --force-output yes. See
Thanks for the information about screen readers, btw. Rick has a point,
the existing accessibility checks are based on HTML specifications. The
intention of the HTML specs is to make it easier to write screen
readers. But very few web sites are written to HTML specs. So real-world
screen readers work with what they get. I am glad to hear it.
It will be difficult for Tidy to adapt to several, different screen
readers. I believe the platform (Windows, Linux, etc.) is the least of the
problem. Rather, it is the variable capabilities of interpreting web pages.
take it easy,
Charlie
FYI, even if the accessibility checking code is compiled into the code,
(this extra) accessibility checking is OFF by default (and so the original
Tidy accessibility checking is done), and you have to request the checking
either on the command line or using the configuration option :
-access n
--accessibility-check n
where n = 0 (OFF - default), 1, 2, 3
Regards, Terry
Thank you for your feedback. Mike Lam at the Adaptive Technology Resource
Centre at the University of Toronto, was mostly responsible for the
accessibility checking implementation, and he may be able to help answer
your questions. I only helped to integrate the accessibility checking into
Tidy.
What level of accessibility checking did you request of Tidy? 1, 2, or 3?
As Rick Parsons said :
I agree. Maybe we could provide more flexibility for accessibility
checking, to relax the rules a little.
You probably need to specify the configuration option that allows you to be
shown more of the errors :
--show-errors 1000
will show the first 1000 errors for example.
I believe you can use another configuration option to ignore the errors :
--force-output yes
Hope this helps.
Regards, Terry
