Referring to the spec call on 13 August 2003:
- P3P beyond HTTP - Patrick Hung
- Nothing new to report. Waiting for comments.
- WG comments not yet provided to Liberty
- ACTION: TF to decide what we want to propose for inclusion in the
1.1 spec
As the P3P 1.0 spec is described in the context of HTTP, it may be
appropriate to propose Web
services protocols UDDI, WSDL and SOAP in the P3P 1.1 spec. In particular,
the P3P 1.0 spec
does mention to have other protocols in Section 2.5.
Thus, I would suggest to describe P3P policy reference files in the context
of WSDL in the first place.
It is because WSDL is definitely needed in both "publish" and "direct
publish" in the Web services model.
In addition, a requestor should check the WSDL document (at least once
before his first time to bind to a
specific Web service) via a service locator (acts like a user agent in P3P).
Furthemore, those include/
and exclude/ elements in P3P 1.0 spec can also be used to define which Web
methods in a Web service
is covered by P3P policies and etc.
If all these suggestions sound ok, could we propose to describe this
scenario into Section 2.5 or even a new
section in 1.1 spec?
Any comment/suggestion?
Patrick.
Those comments were now provided, see on the member-only list
Yes, the beyond HTTP was already discussed earlier and we didn't wanted
to preclude other uses. For WSDL, comments from Hugo are pending. I will
try to get those soon. For SOAP, we might want some help from the XML
Prot Group in constructing the binding. Perhaps Mark Nottingham is able
to help us a bit.
I think it is definitely a good idea to look into WSDL bindings. Isn't
this what is already contained in the Task Force WD?
We still have to discuss advantages and disadvantages of having a
standalone document vs. integration into the 1.1 Spec (e.g. conformance)
Best,
Rigo
Hi Rigo,
That would be great. I will keep on thinking along this line. In fact, I am
on vacation from 29/8 to 7/9. However, I will try my best to attend next
week's P3P call.
Yes, you are right. However, I think that we should polish the content in a
format that can be merged into the P3P 1.1 spec.
I am looking forward to discussing with you on Sept 9. Have a nice trip.
Cheers,
Patrick.
