All:
I do not agree with the direction we are taking with attributes in WSDL 2.0
working group. My reasons include:
a) Forcing the designer to use Get/Set operation pairs to denote attributes
results in a model of very fine grained access.
b) The approach is quite complicated, this reduces the
functionality/capability of tools to support this approach ubiquitously.
c) The approach does not allow/support addition of policy/meta-data
specifically associated with the attributes.
Therefore I request that the WSDL WG reconsider its position on attributes
and terminate this line of activity. The concept of attributes in Web
services should be done in another venue that would allow a simpler and
more complete treatment of this concept.
sgg
Steve Graham
(919)254-0615 (T/L 444)
STSM, On Demand Architecture
Member, IBM Academy of Technology
as you could always just attach such metadata to the operations or even the
schema. But I completely agree with your conclusion. I think that the
service state and management space is a very interesting one, and there are
some simple and powerful things that can be done there, things which seem
like perfect candidates for WSDL extensions.
--Glen
2.0
attributes
Steve:
While I have a completely separate set of reasons as to why attibutes should
not be part of WSDL, I heartily endorse your notion. This activity should
cease to be part of the WSDL effort.
Jim
Steve et al,
I agree. My hope had been that the full Service Data model could be made
available to a larger community, but this does not seem possible (sensible)
through the WSDL layer. A higher level should be able to meet the dual goals
of simplicity and power that Service Data represents in the Open Grid
Services Infrastructure (OGSI).
Take care:
Dr. David Snelling d.snelling@fle.fujitsu.com
Fujitsu Laboratories of Europe
Hayes Park Central
Hayes End Road
Hayes, Middlesex UB4 8FE
Hi David,
made
You know only too well that for the last few months Jim Webber and I
have been arguing against the perceived requirement that SDEs are
necessary in the Grid community, even more so about the view that they
must be introduced in WSDL in one form or the other (e.g., as
attributes). Service Data Declarations appear to be powerful only
because of the OGSI view of the world, where each resource is exposed as
a Grid Service Instance and where consumers are allowed to create or
request the destruction of a Grid Service Instance.
My limited understanding of WSA tells me that seeing each resource as a
Grid Service Instance, which is defined as a potentially transient,
stateful Web Service with lifetime management related characteristics,
is not consistent with the Service-Oriented model but, rather, with an
object-oriented model similar to CORBA and DCOM.
If the Grid community wishes to define separate specifications that add
additional characteristics like Service Data Elements, factories of
resources (it's my understanding that we are moving away from the term
Grid Service Instance in favour for "Resource"), they are free to do so.
However, I am worried that such an approach will further distance the
Grid from the world of Web Services without actually that being
necessary.
Best regards,
.savas.
