There is not yet a Windows based HTML browser that provides
efficient access to most screen readers. This is not true, for
example, of the latest versions of Netscape Navigator, Internet
Explorer, and Opera. After Microsoft releases service pack 2 for
IE4, this browser, combined with Microsoft Active Accessibility
1.2, has the potential of providing efficient access. Until that
happens and users have validated it through experience, however, it
is a promise and not a reality. IBM and Productivity Works also have
good accessible browsers in the making, but they are commercial and
also not yet proven to the disability community.
Even when there is an accessible HTML browser on the dominant,
Windows platform, a large proportion of users with and without
disabilities will not be able to take advantage of it because they
will not have the hardware necessary to comfortably run this
software. A comfortable experience requires a minimum of 32 megs
of RAM and a clock speed of 200. People with disabilities are
often economically poor and not able to keep up with the latest
hardware requirements. People from developing countries also face
this situation, whether they have disabilities or not.
It has been suggested that, even if one does not use a contemporary
graphical browser, it is a trivial matter to use one to produce a
good plain text rendering of the HTML page. Unfortunately, I have
not found this to be the case. An initial problem is that the line
length produced will often be greater than 80 characters unless one
takes special steps to prevent this from happening. On a standard
text terminal, some information is lost when scrolling down
continuously through the text. If one has to navigate to the right
margin whenever some words appear to be missing, the reading
process becomes cumbersome, unpleasant, and inefficient.
A second problem in plain text rendering is that HTML pages usually
contain headers, footers, and embedded navigational references that
get included in the plain text rendering but are not material to
its content, and thus a distraction. I generally have to go through
the initial plain text rendering to clean out such extraneous
material. I've developed macros that help speed up this clean-up
process, but it requires significant time and effort to edit each page in
order to get crisp content.
I've tried every DOS command-line utility I could find that converts
from HTML to text. Only one, HTMSTRIP, (from
job, in my opinion. This further indicates that rendering good plain text is a
nontrivial matter which should not be assumed practical for the
average user.
Regards,
Jamal
I am familiar with screen readers and internet browsing. I disagree with Jamal's
very first statement (and thus the premise he is working from). I am hoping he
will elaborate on:
What is wrong (i.e., non-efficient) with IE 3.02, NN 2.02 or 3.04 or Lynx 2.8?
With Henter Joyce giving away JAWS for DOS, I think consideration of the sub $200
PC market is quite relevant. Free dial-up text-only access to the 'net via Lynx
(running on a remote server) would be the status quo for this market.
It has been suggested that this is a trivial matter with graphical browsers too.
Unfortunately, I have not found this to be the case.
The problems Jamal describes are not consistent with my own experience. (Aside
from desiring nested documents to be available as a single file, which is a
different issue altogether.) What is wrong with the way Lynx saves html documents
as plain text on the local drive?
This further indicates that rendering good plain text is a nontrivial matter
which should not be assumed practical for the average user.
I would contend that computer literacy is a requirement for anyone (for economic
reasons or whatever) who is using a DOS-based machine. Operation of Lynx via
telnet using a telecommunications package (like Procomm Plus or whatever) certainly
falls within the required skill set. Use of the the HTMLSTRIP utility Jamal
recommends would not be difficult for such users, but not required.
Thanks for adding your perspective to this discussion.
I agree that IE 3.02 presently provides efficient HTML access with the
Winvision 97 screen reader, though not any other reliably. It is a
temporary niche solution, but not a generally satisfactory one. It does not
and will not support the latest web standards including HTML 4, and
therefore, is becoming obsolete. We need to have browsers that are
developed to meet evolving Internet standards, so the version to judge by
is IE4, which came out over a year ago and is still not accessible with most
screen readers.
It is unrealistic to expect the average user to do the complex setup
required of Windows Lynx 32.
It still has keyboard conflicts with most screen readers. Lynx also does not
support and is unlikely to support the latest web standards.
I do use Unix Lynx and if shell accounts were not a dying market choice, I
would encourage more computer novices to learn it.
I agree that we should encourage computer literacy among blind people. The
level of literacy currently required, however, to efficiently use current
graphical browsers is a bit much for a non-techie.
Regards,
Jamal
On 1998-12-08 bbailey@clark.net said:
NCC: Jamal Mazrui empower@smart.net
N--------------58CD144037822B4EF7628AF0
NContent-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
NI am familiar with screen readers and internet browsing. I
Ndisagree with Jamal's very first statement (and thus the premise he
Nis working from). I am hoping he will elaborate on:
N There is not yet a Windows based HTML browser that provides
N efficient access to most screen readers.
NWhat is wrong (i.e., non-efficient) with IE 3.02, NN 2.02 or 3.04
Nor Lynx 2.8?
N People with disabilities are often economically poor and not able
N to keep up with the latest
N hardware requirements.
NWith Henter Joyce giving away JAWS for DOS, I think consideration
Nof the sub $200 PC market is quite relevant. Free dial-up
Ntext-only access to the 'net via Lynx (running on a remote server)
Nwould be the status quo for this market.
N It has been suggested that, even if one does not use a
N contemporary graphical browser, it is a trivial matter to use one
N to produce a good plain text rendering of the HTML page.
NIt has been suggested that this is a trivial matter with graphical
Nbrowsers too.
N Unfortunately, I have not found this to be the case.
NThe problems Jamal describes are not consistent with my own
Nexperience. (Aside from desiring nested documents to be available
Nas a single file, which is a different issue altogether.) What is
Nwrong with the way Lynx saves html documents as plain text on the
Nlocal drive?
N This further indicates that rendering good plain text is a
N nontrivial matter which should not be assumed practical for the
Naverage user.
NI would contend that computer literacy is a requirement for anyone
N(for economic reasons or whatever) who is using a DOS-based machine.
NOperation of Lynx via telnet using a telecommunications package
N(like Procomm Plus or whatever) certainly falls within the required
Nskill set. Use of the the HTMLSTRIP utility Jamal recommends would
Nnot be difficult for such users, but not required.
N--------------58CD144037822B4EF7628AF0
NContent-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
N !DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.0 Transitional//EN"
N HTML
N TT I am familiar with screen readers and internet browsing.&amp;nbsp;
NI disagree with Jamal's very first statement (and thus the premise
Nhe is working from).&amp;nbsp; I am hoping he will elaborate on: /TT
N BLOCKQUOTE TYPE=CITE There is not yet a Windows based HTML browser
Nthat provides efficient access to most screen readers. /BLOCKQUOTE
N TT What is wrong (i.e., non-efficient) with IE 3.02, NN 2.02 or 3.
N04 or Lynx 2.8? /TT
N BLOCKQUOTE TYPE=CITE People with disabilities are often
Neconomically poor and not able to keep up with the latest
N BR hardware requirements. /BLOCKQUOTE
N TT With Henter Joyce giving away JAWS for DOS, I think
Nconsideration of the sub $200 PC market is quite relevant.&amp;nbsp;
NFree dial-up text-only access to the 'net via Lynx (running on a
Nremote server) would be the status quo for this market. /TT
N BLOCKQUOTE TYPE=CITE It has been suggested that, even if one does
Nnot use a contemporary graphical browser, it is a trivial matter to
Nuse one to produce a good plain text rendering of the HTML page.
N /BLOCKQUOTE TT It has been suggested that this is a trivial
Nmatter with graphical browsers too. /TT
N BLOCKQUOTE TYPE=CITE Unfortunately, I have not found this to be
Nthe case. /BLOCKQUOTE TT The problems Jamal describes are not
Nconsistent with my own experience.&amp;nbsp; (Aside from desiring
Nnested documents to be available as a single file, which is a
Ndifferent issue altogether.)&amp;nbsp; What is wrong with the way Lynx
Nsaves html documents as plain text on the local drive? /TT
N BLOCKQUOTE TYPE=CITE This further indicates that rendering good
Nplain text is a nontrivial matter which should not be assumed
Npractical for the average user. /BLOCKQUOTE TT I would contend
Nthat computer literacy is a requirement for anyone (for economic
Nreasons or whatever) who is using a DOS-based machine.&amp;nbsp;
NOperation of Lynx via telnet using a telecommunications package
N(like Procomm Plus or whatever) certainly falls within the required
Nskill set.&amp;nbsp; Use of the the HTMLSTRIP utility Jamal recommends
Nwould not be difficult for such users, but not required.
N /TT /HTML --------------58CD144037822B4EF7628AF0--
Net-Tamer V 1.11.2 - Registered
