Hello,
I thought that you may be interested in the following case study which
is a brief summary of the latest accessibility project we have just
undertaken on behalf of Birmingham Focus on Blindness, a Midlands based
charity. The site address is at http://www.birminghamfocus.org.uk .
Birmingham Focus on Blindness Case Study
The purpose of this site was to highlight the work of this Birmingham
based charity in an accessible way to enable people with sight
impairment to find out information about the services offered on their
behalf. The site was intended to conform with Bobby and W3C Level AA
accessibility and have a method of allowing the Birmingham Focus staff
to update the site themselves.
The site was developed initially using standard Adobe and Macromedia
development tools to create the basic site structure with a MySQL
database running behind the scenes to serve the dynamic page content.
Throughout the development we stuck rigidly to the W3C accessibility
guidelines, with our aim to exceed the brief in all areas and in so
doing push the envelope of online accessible design.
To ensure that the site met with the highest possible W3C Level AAA
standards throughout, we handcoded amendments to most of the HTML double
checking this with online code verification engines. We then
exhaustively tested the site to ensure maximum compliance with access
technology such as screen readers and braille monitors, before the third
stage of our accessibility testing which was carried out by Birmingham
Focus volunteers and also the disabled client group of the Self
Direction Community Project whom we regularly work with for peer
appraisal, which is the key to true accessibility.
It is only by obtaining feedback from the people for whom a site has
been developed that true accessibility can be achieved.
Innovation
The site has many innovative features, most of which are not new but
have certainly not been done in such an effective manner before and
rarely within the same site. The display can be fully customisable
easily enabling a choice of text and background colours, and a choice of
various font sizes and types. A log in area exists that will memorise
the settings of the user and display all pages in that way, and also
feed content to the user that is most appropriate to them - this is a
highly dynamic form of implicit personalisation. News relevant to the
site user can be highlighted, site searches will display more relevant
results based on the user profile before any other results are listed,
and all content is set with attributes to ensure that the site is a
truly personalised experienced.
The content management system behind the scenes is second to none and is
possibly the only website content management product developed today to
be fully accessible to Level AAA standards. In layman's terms, this
means that not only can the website be browsed by someone who is
completely blind, but that a blind person can have full control over the
entire site and is capable of not just adding and removing content, but
can also upload files, images, amend navigation links, remove and add
pages and site sections, change links, and update the entire site to
their liking. This is what web accessibility is all about - making the
Internet accessible to everyone regardless of their ability or
disability levels.
The Way Ahead...
We seized the chance to work on this project as another opportunity of
demonstrating our skills and abilities in the field of online
accessibility. Rather than just talk about it, we actually put our
words into practice as, by raising the bar, we have shown that the
combination of design, advanced functionality and true accessibility is
not only possible, but should be the way ahead for the Internet. If
more people took accessibility as seriously as we do, the Internet would
be a much better place for everyone.
E-quality is not just an offline word.
Thank you for your time.
Regards
Jeremy
Jeremy Hurst
Business Director
Slightly Different Ltd. http://www.slightlydifferent.co.uk
UK Online for Business Partners - eBusiness Questions Answered
Thankyou for sharing with us, Jeremy. Just one question if I may:
What does 'conform with Bobby' mean ? Thankyou in advance for all
information that you can share on this topic.
- Tina Holmboe Greytower Technologies
tina@greytower.net http://www.greytower.net/
[+46] 0708 557 905
Hi all,
My name is Farez Rahman and I manage projects for a web accessibility
consultancy in central London, UK, called Checkpoint
(www.checkpoint-access.co.uk).
I would like to invite members of this list to join our User Panel, which
is a diverse group of people with a range of disabilities and who use
assitive technology for web browsing, eg. screen readers. From time to time
we consult our User Panel when auditing our clients' websites for
accessibility. Of course, panel members that we consult are remunerated for
their time and effort.
If you're interested in this, all you need to do is reply indicating this
and I will keep a record of your name and email address. We will get in
touch with you along with the web page(s) we'd like you to look at and a
questionnaire to fill in, as an when new projects arise. We then arrange
exchange of your reply with our payment to you for that work. There are no
obligations.
Hope to hear from you soon.
Regards,
Farez
In looking at the source code of the site itself
(http://www.birminghamfocus.org.uk), I see that all the tables have
summaries (for example, "This table is a spacer" and "This table contains
the main site navigation bar").
Is this necessary? I was under the impression that only data tables needed
summaries. Does providing a summary for tables used for layout serve a
purpose?
Thanks!
leslie
The only meaningfull summaries are for data tables. Some tools require them
though.
The WCAG, to my knowledge, does not explicitly say either way. It
does, to me, seem from both the WCAG and the HTML specification that
the summary attribute should describe the table's purpose AND
structure - and a table used for layout has preciously little of the
latter.
Now that you mention it, however ... I seem to believe that you cannot
achieve WCAG 'AAA' whilst using tables for layout - actually, since
you can't get past checkpoint 3.3 when you do, achieving 'AA'
shouldn't be possible either.
After all, it explicitly states:
"Layout, positioning, layering, and alignment should be done through
style sheets (notably by using CSS floats and absolute
positioning)"
Perhaps someone from the WAI-WG could clear up this ?
- Tina Holmboe Greytower Technologies
tina@greytower.net http://www.greytower.net/
[+46] 0708 557 905
No, I don't believe it is, and I feel it is a classic example of Bobby
somewhat harming accessibility instead of helping it.
If tables are (mis)used for layout, informing the user of them just
makes things worse. It's pointless, ridiculous and irritating. What
possible value could a user get from knowing a table is to make a
visual space? It'd be much better if it was simply ignored (and of
course, it'd be infinitely better if CSS was used instead).
The navigation summary may be of some usefulness, but not that much,
and I would have said much shorter text would be better if it was
absolutely required. The user doesn't need an exact description of all
content before they get to it.
Some of the alt text on that site is also ridiculously long, a great
(or should that be awful?) example being:
"Logo indicating that this website achieves AAA accessibility
compliance - this graphic is an External Link to the W3C Web Content
Accessibility Guidelines that opens in a new browser window."
Urgh!
Tom Gilder
i think the guidelines are clear but bobby let's them
get away with it anyway, and that's sadly all some
people look out for - that AAA Bobby approved icon
(see bottom of the birminghamfocus.org.uk page)
iris
omnia mea mecum porto
The problem, in my eyes, is that they also have a 'WCAG AAA' approved
logo on it. I can find several interesting things in that source to
disprove such a claim.
This has been a disappointing day for accessibility.
- Tina Holmboe Greytower Technologies
tina@greytower.net http://www.greytower.net/
[+46] 0708 557 905
Which may or may not be true. I'd love to see it try to open a new
window in my copy of Mozilla (with JavaScript turned off and
preferences configured to always open links in the same window -
irrespective of target attributes).
Website content shouldn't make assumptions about the users browsing
environment.
David Dorward http://david.us-lot.org/
Redesign in progress: http://stone.thecoreworlds.net/
Microsoft announces IE is dead (so upgrade):
It can't be true as it is self contradictory. An AAA, or even AA
rated page cannot trigger a popup Window until the normal situation
is that browsers can disable popping up the Window, so whilst disabling
is not generally supported (in terms of installed base), it is not allowed
to popup and claim AAA, and when disabling is supported, it cannot assume
that any attempt to trigger a popup will actually work, so the second
part of the statement would be untrue.
and unbelievably redundant, almost couldn't find the new stuff on each
link
Bob
"They that can give up essential liberty to obtain a little temporary
safety deserve Neither liberty nor safety", Benjamin Franklin
ASCII Ribbon Campaign accessBob
NO HTML/PDF/RTF in e-mail accessys@smartnospam.net
NO MSWord docs in e-mail Access Systems, engineers
NO attachments in e-mail, *LINUX powered* access is a civil right
THIS message and any attachments are CONFIDENTIAL and may be
privileged. They are intended ONLY for the individual or entity named
