There is a new version of the guidelines at
We are posting this to IG for your review.
The working group GL has hammered it into this form over the past few
weeks. We think it is much better than the current public version on
TR and are thinking of posting this version to TR as soon as
possible - so that when people hear about the guidelines at WWW7 they
will find this version on the technical reports page TR instead of the
old February version.
So give it a look see and let us know if you see anything that is a
problem. Or if you think we should post this one out there instead of
the Feb version for the WWW7 attendees to view.
Thanks much
Gregg for the GL Chairs and Editors
Gregg C Vanderheiden Ph.D.
Professor - Human Factors
Dept of Ind. Engr. - U of Wis.
Director - Trace R &amp; D Center
GV@tracecenter.org , http://tracecenter.org/
For a list of our listserves send "lists" to listproc@tracecenter.org
The new guidelines sucks. I just had my deafwatch.com site checked by
The Bobby checker. Last year I got 3 stars this sime 3 accessibility
errors. My site basically is a very simple site and it goes in the direction
that a text version will not be needed.
I really dont know where these guidelines are comming from but I dont like it
and I feel the sole responsibility of making webpages accessible rests on the
browser makers NOT the website authors.
Richard Roehm
Deaf@activist.com
Hi Richard,
Good comments.
Take a look at the new guidelines we just posted at
latest bobby, it was based on the February draft guidelines. We have
made a number of improvements since then which may address your
concerns.
Also, could you let us know which parts of the guidelines you have
problems with? For example, what were the three errors that you got
when you ran bobby? It is very helpful to know where the problems
are.
I'm glad to see you are designing the site so it won't need be needed.
That is the intention of the guidelines. In fact the guidelines now
state that a text page should only be used if you cannot figure out
any other way to make a page accessible.
Finally, you suggest that more work should be put on the browser
manufacturers. Jon G's group is doing that right now. I think they
will be posting a set of browser guidelines soon. The page author
guidelines are also designed to move as much off the page writer and
onto the browser and screen reader as possible.... As soon as the
browsers adopt the newly recommended features. Again, if you have any
ideas in regard to things that browsers should do better, either post
them here or directly to the ua group at w3c-wai-ua@w3.org
Gregg
Gregg C Vanderheiden Ph.D.
Professor - Human Factors
Dept of Ind. Engr. - U of Wis.
Director - Trace R &amp; D Center
GV@tracecenter.org , http://tracecenter.org/
For a list of our listserves send "lists" to listproc@tracecenter.org
Behalf Of Richard Roehm III
The new guidelines sucks. I just had my deafwatch.com site checked by
The Bobby checker. Last year I got 3 stars this sime 3 accessibility
errors. My site basically is a very simple site and it goes in the
direction
that a text version will not be needed.
I really dont know where these guidelines are comming from but I dont
like it
and I feel the sole responsibility of making webpages accessible rests
on the
browser makers NOT the website authors.
Richard Roehm
Deaf@activist.com
What is the URL for your web page that Bobby now frowns on?
Al Gilman
Yowsa. In what way?
Are you objecting to Bobby's implemenation of the Guidelines
(which are the older ones, not the new ones), or to something
specific in the Guidelines you don't like, or just to the idea
of author guidelines in the first place?
Aren't there credits and an explanation of where the Guidelines
come from on the Guidelines themselves?
Why not? Give some reasons besides "they suck" and "I don't
like it", and it's likely that your concerns may be addressed
in a later version.
You may feel that -- but you're completely wrong. The web
author _has_ to supply enough information for the browser to
display information, or else it simply _can't_ make a page
accessible.
For example, if I have a page that looks like this:
...there's simply no way that any browser, no matter how smart,
can display this in a way that will be as accessible to a
blind user as to a sighted one. No way, no how -- and it's
the fault of the page designer, not the browser.
If I said, instead:
A HREF="lft.html" TITLE="Left Wing Rhetoric Page"
IMG SRC="lft40ns.gif" ALT="The Far Left" /A
A HREF="rit.html" TITLE="Right Wing Rhetoric Page"
IMG SRC="rit40ns.gif" ALT="The Far Right" /A
...then anyone can understand it, even by reading the "raw
HTML". (Note that in the hypothetical example above, the images
would consist of fancy graphical versions of the text above,
perhaps with big arrows pointing in different directions, or
whatever.)
So, you may be pissed that you don't get a high enough Bobby
rating, and I understand that and welcome your feedback on
the Guidelines, but you're way, way, WAY off base if you think
that accessibility is primarily a _browser_ issue and not an
authoring issue.
Kynn Bartlett kynn@hwg.org
Governing Board Member, HTML Writers Guild
Education and Outreach working group member,
Web Accessibility Initiative
I won't say that my sites are perfectly accessible. I have never checked
them with Bobby. I have taken accessibility into heavy consideration while
writing. I suspect that the guidelines have caused your pages to have
errors for good reason, though. If the pages are not broken and there is a
problem with the guidelines then it should be stated what the problem is.
In my experience, a text version is never needed when you adhere to the
recommendations. HTML is perfectly capable of rendering as text-only when
you use it well. Lynx is a good test. It renders HTML as a good text-based
UA should.
You follow the specs and guidelines, the browser folks follow the specs and
guidelines then it will work every time. Either one of you stray and it
breaks in ways you rarely predict. It is everyone's responsibility to make
sure the web is accessible. I will say that some of the browser folks are
not doing the best job in fostering accessibility. The web writers are not
innocent, though. Writing bad HTML documents is just as big of a problem as
writing a bad HTML interpreter. There are millions of people writing bad
HTML. There are only a few people writing bad browsers.
Here is a simple browser accessibility problem with the big browsers.
Why don't images render as the alt text when the images are disabled or
unavailable? They render as an empty box with microscopic little text in
one corner. An image inside of a heading, on Lynx, renders the alt text as
if it were plain text within a heading. Is this not something that would be
logical? At least as an accessibility option.
And, why do so many people misuse or not use the alt text? How many people
have you seen put "Hey stupid, turn on your images so you can see them" as
the alt text? Tell me that isn't the author's responsibility.
,David Norris
World Wide Web - http://www.geocities.com/CapeCanaveral/Lab/1652/
Illusionary Web - http://illusionary.dyn.ml.org/ -- 02:00 - 10:00 GMT
Video/Audio Phone - callto:illusionary.dyn.ml.org
Page via mail - 412039@pager.mirabilis.com
ICQ Universal Internet Number - 412039
E-Mail - kg9ae@geocities.com
