Jon, I am sending this to you because my normal email has temprorarily
died, and I am not sure how open the list is.
Two comments about the proposed setup:
1. The GL rating P3 wa changed to 'this guideline may be implemented
to improve access...' giving a MUST/SHOULD/MAY classification which
could be related directly to the three priority grades. Should UA be
looking at something similar?
2. The 'compatibility with assistive technology' sounds pretty woolly
to me. Are we talking about stuff that we ought to be expecting from
the DOM being passed from the browser itself to the assistive
technology, or are we asking everyone to implement Microsoft's Active
Accessibility, or some other standard already in existence? It seems
to me that we should be specifying a standard interface for functions
we are not requiring of the browser itself.
Charles McCathieNevile
DO YOU YAHOO!?
Get your free @yahoo.com address at http://mail.yahoo.com
Hi Charles,
I just changed this on Friday to must/should/may. The next
WG draft will have wording to that effect.
I think that's a good idea. Is there a way to use what's in DOM Level 1
since it just became a Recommendation?
- Ian
Ian Jacobs (jacobs@w3.org)
In reply to my question about the meaning of 'compatibility with
I think that's a good idea. Is there a way to use what's in DOM Level 1
since it just became a Recommendation?
I'm not sure that DOM level 1 goes far enough. But we certainly should
define what sort of compatibility we are talking about. In theory DOM
would fulfil that role nicely, as it gets built up. It is also a W3C
recommendation, which in theory means that most people are committed
to it. But I don't know enough about the implementation in practice -
can someone help us out better?
Charles McCathieNevile
DO YOU YAHOO!?
Get your free @yahoo.com address at http://mail.yahoo.com
I'm not certain what you're talking about. How does DOM Level 1 make
browsers compatible with assistive technology? I think I know how, since we
built an architecture on top of Dynamic HTML to do exactly that, but would
like your opinions. Thanks!
Charles Oppermann
Program Manager, Accessibility and Disabilities Group,
Microsoft Corporation
"A computer on every desk and in every home, usable by everyone!"
In reply to my question about the meaning of 'compatibility with
I think that's a good idea. Is there a way to use what's in DOM Level 1
since it just became a Recommendation?
I'm not sure that DOM level 1 goes far enough. But we certainly should
define what sort of compatibility we are talking about. In theory DOM
would fulfil that role nicely, as it gets built up. It is also a W3C
recommendation, which in theory means that most people are committed
to it. But I don't know enough about the implementation in practice -
can someone help us out better?
Charles McCathieNevile
DO YOU YAHOO!?
Get your free @yahoo.com address at http://mail.yahoo.com
JRG responses:
JRG: I think we are currently using "impossible", "difficult" and "easier"
to describe our three levels. I like them better than must, should, may
for UA.
We cannot specify any particular technique, but the new techniques document
(to be made public to the group this week) can recommend a range of ways to
implement a particular guideline. I think we want to let deveolpers find
their own solutions to a given guideline, but we do want to make it clear
in the guideline the funcaitonality that is needed. I think the techniques
document is critical in giving direction to the implementation process and
coordinating efforts between mainstrem browsers and 3rd party assistive
technology. I think it would be very difficult, if not impossible, to say
to a develper you need to do it just like this.
Jon Gunderson, Ph.D., ATP
Coordinator of Assistive Communication and Information Technology
Division of Rehabilitation - Education Services
University of Illinois at Urbana/Champaign
1207 S. Oak Street
Champaign, IL 61820
Voice: 217-244-5870
E-mail: jongund@uiuc.edu
WWW:http://www.staff.uiuc.edu/~jongund
"easier"
may
And I think:
must/should/may applies to how important it is to implement the
guideline, which corresponds to whether the result will be impossible,
difficult or easy to use.
I had written:
Active
And Jon replied:
document
ways to
find
clear
techniques
process and
assistive
to say
my concern is:
if the developer is producing both the browser and the assistive
technology which companies like microsoft are perfetctly capable of,
then it is fine for them to state that their suite of products
provides a complete solution. If we are aiming for an open forum,
where people can produce pieces of the solution, then there needs to
be a standard that says how those pieces fit together (is that an
API?). If we take Jon's approach then I suspect that we will be
pleasing the big players at the expense of the little players. Since
smoe of the user groups here are fairly small, they are likely to be
interested as little players.
I know this is getting pretty airy-fairy, but it seems that we need to
think about it. My hope is that we can say to the developers
"implement the DOM as an interface..." and it will work.
Charles McCathieNevile
DO YOU YAHOO!?
Get your free @yahoo.com address at http://mail.yahoo.com
I understand your concerns about big verses small developers and 3rd party
assitive technology. But there are a number of reasons I think we should
only specify what we feel are important for the user interface and not try
to dictate what technology should have what feature.
1. Knowledge: The group as a whole doesn't have enough knowledge about the
current and emerging technologies and the internal dynamics of companies to
know if any technology specific recommendations make sense to implement a
guideline. The more we can give specific design goals and the less on how
a company should do it I think the more cooperation we will have with
industry as a whole.
2. Time: I want the group to focus on design goals of what people need, and
not get into potentially long debates about whether it is a browser
function or an assitive technology function. If we have good goals and
solid techniques for implementation developers will probably accept them.
We need to finish this draft of the guidelines and get to propsed
recommendation so that developers can start to use them. So the more we
try to micromanage the implementation of the guidelines the more time it
will take to get a proposed recommendation prepared, and probably the more
diffciult it will be to get W3C approval, since member companies will want
to verify that our micro managed implementation specifications are
technically valid and acheivable. I think we should listen to our
developer representatives in the group on what helps them the most
(developers, please chime in here to give your opinion)
I am open to discussion these issues, and would be interested in how people
in the group feel about these statements (good, bad, what ever).
Jon
Jon Gunderson, Ph.D., ATP
Coordinator of Assistive Communication and Information Technology
Division of Rehabilitation - Education Services
University of Illinois at Urbana/Champaign
1207 S. Oak Street
Champaign, IL 61820
Voice: 217-244-5870
E-mail: jongund@uiuc.edu
WWW:http://www.staff.uiuc.edu/~jongund
1) I agree that the guidelines should specify 'what needs to be possible' and
not the technical specifics of 'how to do it', so that the guidelines support
rather than impede advancements. Remember: Older, highly specific
specifications for wheelchairs stymied introduction of wheelchairs that are
lighter, more practical, easier to use and more fun to be in.
2) Re: "I think we should listen to our developer representatives in the group
on what helps them the most".
Yes -- As long as we keep in mind that user advocacy, not developer advocacy,
is our primary task. After all, what helps developers most is guidelines that
match what they are already working on -- which may or may not be what's best
for end users.
-- Paul Adelson
* The views expressed are those of the
* author and do not necessarily reflect the
* position of Citibank or Citigroup.
