Apart from the issue on primary purpose, the following is the latest
suggested text for the UA Guidelines
Some jurisdictions (E.g. the European Union) require human readable
information on purpose of collection to be presented to the user before any
information is captured. One way to comply with this is to present human
readable translations of policies for action uri's of forms simultaneously
with the forms. As a best practice, information on purposes should be made
available before any personal information is transmitted. This might be
achieved be achieved for example by a privacy tab which is synchronised to
display information before pages load, or by including information which is
displayed on clicking a link.
Giles Hogben
European Commission Joint Research Centre
Institute for the Protection and Security of the Citizen Cybersecurity
New technologies for Combatting Fraud Unit
TP 267
Via Enrico Fermi 1
Ispra
21020 VA
Italy
giles.hogben@jrc.it
I suggest this be added as a subsection of section with the title
"Timing of Notices to Users"
While the directive is asking for notice about purpose, I could imagine
other jurisdictions asking for notice about say, data recipients or
data retention as well. So i don't think we should limit our discussion
to notice about purpose.
I also think we need to spell things out a bit more so that people
understand what data might be transmitted before a page is displayed.
It is also not entirely clear to me how clickstream information comes
into play here. Here is a proposal:
Timing of Notices to Users
As a best practice, users should receive notice about a site's privacy
practices prior to their user agent transmitting any personal data. In
order to do this, a user agent would need to fetch a P3P policy prior
to loading a page following the guidelines specified in section 2.4.3
The "Safe Zone." However, implementers will need to consider the
performance, usability, and privacy tradeoffs associated with
displaying privacy information prior to loading a page. One way that
privacy and usability might be simultaneously maximized is to treat all
requests made prior to display of policy information as "safe zone"
requests.
At sites that include form fields, user agents SHOULD provide notice
about the corresponding privacy practices prior to form submittal.
Besides being best practice, this may be needed in order to comply with
regulations in some jurisdictions (such as the European Union) that
require a notice about the purpose of data collection to be presented
to the user before any personal information is captured. User interface
designs should recognize that the privacy policy for the form's action
URI may be different than the privacy policy for the HTML page in which
the form is embedded. In order to allow users to view privacy policy
information associated with action URIs prior to form submittal, user
agents might include a privacy tab that loads policy information for
action URIs as a page loads, a button or menu item that causes policy
information for action URIs to be displayed, or a pop-up that appears
when a user begins entering information into a form field.
Note, that the EU communications directive requires this kind of
information especially before a cookie can be set to the user machine.
So forms and cookies are the two special cases. While forms are much
more comprehensible, the info transferred by cookies is more opaque and
more p3p is needed IMHO ;)
Best,
Rigo
I think the clickstream issue still does not come across. Here are a couple
of suggested ammendments to help with this. Otherwise I think the text is
nice:
Timing of Notices to Users
As a best practice, users should receive notice about a site's privacy
practices prior to their user agent transmitting any
personal data. Personal data means anything which might reasonably be linked
to the user (see section ****) and as such can even include IP addresses and
locale data transmitted in http headers before a page has even loaded. In
order to present such notice, a user agent would need to fetch a P3P policy
prior to loading a page following the guidelines specified in section 2.4.3
**"The Safe Zone." However, implementers will need to consider the
performance, usability, and privacy tradeoffs associated with
displaying privacy information prior to loading a page. One way that
privacy and usability might be simultaneously maximized is
to treat all
requests made prior to display of policy information as "safe zone"
requests.
At sites that include form fields, user agents SHOULD provide notice
about the corresponding privacy practices prior to form submittal.
Besides being best practice, this may be needed in order to
comply with
regulations in some jurisdictions (such as the European Union) that
require a notice about the purpose of data collection to be
presented
to the user before any personal information is captured.
User interface
designs should recognize that the privacy policy for the
form's action
URI may be different than the privacy policy for the HTML
page in which
the form is embedded. In order to allow users to view privacy policy
information associated with action URIs prior to form
submittal, user
agents might include a privacy tab that loads policy information for
action URIs as a page loads, a button or menu item that
causes policy
information for action URIs to be displayed, or a pop-up
that appears
when a user begins entering information into a form field.
Looks good to me.
Lorrie
