At the meeting today we confirmed that a consensus statement that was
missed in our current listing was.
C-9 The minimum set for conformance would be composed only of normative
items (since they are the only ones testable).
No other consensus statements were verified due to running out of time.
Please however look at Wendy's and Graham's postings around the minimum
set and comment. We will look for consensus at next weeks meeting.
Comments solicited.
Gregg
Gregg C Vanderheiden Ph.D.
Professor - Human Factors
Dept of Ind. Engr. - U of Wis.
Director - Trace R &amp; D Center
Gv@trace.wisc.edu mailto:Gv@trace.wisc.edu , http://trace.wisc.edu/
For a list of our listserves send ?lists? to listproc@trace.wisc.edu
"Gregg Vanderheiden" gv@trace.wisc.edu
What is the consensus definition of testability? - Automatic? Human? and
what confidence in the test is acceptable?
Jim.
Are there plans to split out "you must have text equivalents" from
"you must have appropriate text equivalents"? The former is testable,
the latter is not as it requires a judgment call.
--Kynn
Kynn Bartlett kynn@reef.com
Technical Developer Liaison
Reef North America
Accessibility - W3C - Integrator Network
BUSINESS IS DYNAMIC. TAKE CONTROL.
Hi Jim
The consensus is Human testing. Automatic is of course acceptable and
great where possible -- just not required.
Gregg
PS - My definition of objective is that 8 or 9 out of 10 people (not
experts) who understand the rule (and have read the techniques document
which explains it) would come up with the same judgment.
I would like to go for 9 of 10. Will see how well we do.
[NOTE: this definition of objective has NOT been proposed for consensus
so I have no idea if there is consensus on this definition or not]
What the heck. This can be a posting. People's thoughts on
'objective'?
Gregg
Behalf Of Jim Ley
Subject: Re: Consensus statement -- minimum set
"Gregg Vanderheiden" gv@trace.wisc.edu
normative
What is the consensus definition of testability? - Automatic? Human? and
what confidence in the test is acceptable?
Jim.
