Why does the HTTP/1.1 spec need to talk about gateways? As a spec of protocol,
not server implementation, it goes without saying that a server implementation
can call on other servers via other protocols. I note that the entry for
"gateway" in the index (of rev-02) lists only one occurrence: the entry for
"gateway" in the glossary. (There is at least one more use of "gateway" in the
spec: on page 12, where gateways are allowed in the chain of intermediaries.
Do you really want to say as much as 1.4 says about the ways that these other
protocols can work?)
... and why are there gateways to servers but not gateways to clients?
Because with the HTTP protocol, clients initiate all communications.
If the client doesn't connect to the gateway, it can't be used.
Dave Morris
I'm asking why the thing that initiates communication has to do so over HTTP,
whereas the thing that ultimately serves it does not have to do so over HTTP.
Neither "has to do" anything. The introduction introduces a bunch of
terms that are necessary for common communication about the HTTP
environment and its participants. There are many things that can
be abstracted together to form the "user agent", just as there are
many things that can be abstracted together to form an origin server.
I included "gateway" specifically because people kept confusing
such things with a proxy.
I have a ton of ideas on how to rewrite the introduction to make the
abstractions a little more clear, and another ton of ideas on how to
reorganize the entire specification to make it readable, but have neither
the time nor the patience to restart the standards process.
BTW, the chain of communication is the only form described because
all other forms can be reduced to a chain for the purpose of discussing
the HTTP semantics.
....Roy
I believe the original question was:
... and why are there gateways to servers but not gateways to clients?
The point of a gateway is that it allows an HTTP client to access a
non-HTTP service.
THis is the HTTP protocol. HTTP clients initiate the connection. That
a program which functions as an HTTP client also acts as the server for
another protocol would seem to be outside of the scope of the HTTP
protocol. Likewise a client which uses some other protocol to a
gateway which then issues HTTP requests on its behalf. This specification
deals with what the HTTP protocol is expected to do and the result of
using a gateway from the HTTP perspective.
Dave Morris
