For example, if a URI http:/example.org/namespace is used as an XML
Namespace the similar URIs HTTP:/example.org/namespace or
Yes they are. The processing algorithm does not need to consider them
to be the same name, but XML cannot change the meaning of a URI.
I don't
Actually, this isn't necessarily so. The W3C standard defines what a
namespace is, and since it has one property (identity, as defined under an
explicit equivalence relation: "string-equal-to"), these do not identify
the same namespace.
The confusion, and it is a real one, is that both URIs will return the
_same_ resource when interpreted as URIs.
The lack of an isomorphism between namespace identity and and resource
identity is a real source of confusion, but it doesn't mean that either the
W3C definition of namespace identity, or the IETF definition of URI
identity are wrong. Namespaces are identified by character strings, chosen
according to an algorithm also used to identify web resources, and for
namespaces notion of identity is string equality. URIs can also be compared
as to whether they can be guaranteed to resolve to the same resource. This
comparison produces different results.
I think it would be great if these could be harmonized, but it's proven
very difficult.
Thus techniques on the comparison ladder other than byte-for-byte
comparison do not work for comparing namespace URIs when used for the
purpose of naming namespaces. This counterexample (and others, for
example from RDF), indicates that the sentence is false.
They work just fine for comparing namespaces. What they don't work for
is testing compliance with W3C recommendations, for which only the
simplest form of comparison is recognized. XML Namespaces accepts the
presence of false negatives without any harm to the processing model.
Additional normalization of the namespace URI will not be incorrect;
it just won't be very useful, since the purpose of namespace names
is to avoid name collisions, not ensure name consistency.
The problem is that it is legal (if confusing) for me to use both
entirely different namespaces, as long as I have rights to assign names for
example.org. I could, for instance, place the year of definition of the
namespace in the port field.
XML software is written with the assumption that string comparison is the
only form of identity, data exists that depends on it. Programs exist that
create namespace
That's why using non-absolute URIs in namespace definitions, while legal,
is generally considered bad practice. Unfortunately it's not an uncommon
practice.
I would like to see the divergence between these two semantics for URIs to
be eliminated. But I don't know if it can.
One way might be just to create a new URI scheme: xml-namespace: which
would have a syntax:
namespace-uri = xml-namespace '//' domain-name ( '/' path-component ) *
Then we could keep the W3C rule, and say that URI comparison and namespace
comparison are only guaranteed to be the same for the xml-namespace URI
scheme, and that there is no URI normalization possible for xml-namespace URIs.
Another way might be to transition first to a w3c Namespaces II in which
certain forms of URI would be made illegal for use in namespace
declarations. This could include explicit ports of any sort, relative URIs,
and anything else that a reasonable normalizer would change. Then, someday,
if the need was felt, it would be possible for normalization of namespace
URIs to be allowed in XML processors.
Pragmatically, I worry that different URI schemes have varying "reasonable"
normalization rules, and so I wonder how XML processors will be able to
dependably recognize identity for namespace names.
Just a few thoughts...
-- David
David G. Durand
Director, Electronic Publishing Services
Ingenta
111R Chestnut St.
Providence, RI 02903 USA
T: +1 401-331-2014 x111
T: +1 401-935-5317 Mobile
E: david.durand@ingenta.com
represent
This shouldn't be legal, and if it is, it's a problem with the
namespace recommendation, which should be updated to explicitly
disallow using two different strings for namespace names that
correspond to URIs that are, by the URI normalization rules,
equivalent.
Larry
Larry Masinter scripsit:
Too late. 2500 messages on xml-uri@w3.org established that we
can't change the interpretation of namespace names now. They are only
reliably equivalent if they are byte-for-byte equivalent, and using
relative URIs as namespace names leads to undefined results.
One art / There is John Cowan jcowan@reutershealth.com
No less / No more http://www.reutershealth.com
All things / To do http://www.ccil.org/~cowan
With sparks / Galore -- Douglas Hofstadter
