Has anyone worked with ALLClear? This is a flowcharting tool I evaluated
some years ago that has a syntax for describing flowcharts. Semi-colons,
commas, and other punctuation marks denoted different flowchart symbols. If
this or some other scheme was adopted as a standard, then a
visuall-impaired person could generate flowcharts, as well as interpret
flowchart information! Thanks, Len for providing the link to the latest
version of the software:
Karl Hebenstreit, Jr.
US General Services Administration
Center for Information Technology Accommodation
---------------------- Forwarded by Karl F. Hebenstreit Jr./MKC/CO/GSA/GOV
on 08/16/99 10:27 AM ---------------------------
From: w3c-wai-ig@w3.org AT internet on 08/11/99 10:51 AM
Subject: How to describe Flowcharts, Schematics, etc
Most image on the web are decoration or icons with simple meanings like
"next page". so ALT text and long descriptions are relatively
straightforward.
But some images convey information. For example,
A simple linear sequence, like a flow chart with input going through a
series of processing stages to result in an output.
A tree diagram, like a company's organization chart.
A more general diagram showing a bunch of interconnected objects, e.g. a
schematic diagram or an electronic circuit.
The most complex is a 3D machine, in motion if you want to make it even
harder.
Are there any guidelines on how to describe these diagrams?
For example, you could use lists and nested lists for linear sequences and
trees respectively. Or you could use prose. More general diagrams are,
well, a more general problem. What techniques are best for what purposes
and audiences? What's good wording, especially for prose decriptions?
I'm mainly thinking of speech output here, since that's what most blind
surfers will be using, rather than Braille or tactile graphics.
This is no doubt hard to encapsulate... at some point you just have to get
a skilled technical writer, especially for the prose versions...
Len
Leonard R. Kasday, Ph.D.
Universal Design Engineer, Institute on Disabilities/UAP, and
Adjunct Professor, Electrical Engineering
Temple University
Ritter Hall Annex, Room 423, Philadelphia, PA 19122
kasday@acm.org
(215) 204-2247 (voice)
(800) 750-7428 (TTY)
Hi,
Regarding description of _A Clockwork Orange_ and audio
description, reading from the original text (since the film
is an adaptation of the original book - and one of the
finest films) would be appropriate. The author, Anthony
Burgess, was a linguist and included a glossary at the end
of his book for the strange vocabulary he created for his
characters - of neo-Elizabethan English slang mixed with
Russian terms. Glossary could be made available at beginning
or end of presentation and/or independently in Braille/print
form.
Greg
jay@peepo.com jay@peepo.com ; w3c-wai-ig@w3.org
:how would you audio describe "clockwork orange"? take a
frame from it
:a complex one and try it out?
:Hands-On Technolog(eye)s
:Touching The Internet:
:mailto:poehlman@clark.net
:Voice: 301.949.7599
:ftp://ftp.clark.net/pub/poehlman
:http://poehlman.clark.net
:Dynamic Solutions Inc.
:Best of service
:for your small business
:network needs!
:http://www.dnsolutions.com
:---sig off---
How about a few graphical representations, as well as the textual.
It is not so easy.
jay@peepo.com
a www for those learning to read.
Please send us links to your favourite websites.
Our site www.peepo.com is a drive thru.
When you see a link of interest, click on it.
Move the mouse to slow down.
It is a graphical aid to browsing the www.
We value your comments.
