I just reviewed http://www.w3.org/TR/2003/WD-turingtest-20031105/ and would
like to comment a couple of the proposed solutions. The Federated Identity
Systems provide the ability for people to identify themselves to a Web site,
and implicitly to identify that they are human, not a robot. A concern with
this is that it requires the user to identify themselves uniquely, not
simply prove they are human, which is the goal. This raises a privacy
concern, that you must identify yourself to the maintainer of a free
resource that otherwise allows anonymous access to humans. While some
resources, by their nature, require specific identifying information, others
can (even should) permit anonymous access and the Turing test should support
that.
I propose that this consideration be included in the commentary in a future
draft.
Good point.
Proving which human you are can be a_fortiori used to prove that you are a
human, but the information so released could be abused on the receiving end.
Ways to fix this include:
-- attribute certificates
The site that knows you doesn't really pass your identity to its federation
partner, just pass to them or back through you a certificate that you are a
known quantity meeting the terms of service of the partner.
These can be one-time tickets, and they can require a login-like authentication
per issue (like repeating your adminstrator password to do installs in Apple
OS X) and they can be limited to one per minute and ten per day or something
like that so that they can't be extracted in bulk by an abuser.
-- machine-to-machine communication
Human user receiving a challenge by mail forwards, by mail, the challenge
to their agent than negotiates credentials with the agent of the other party
by Web Services or SMIME.
So there are two forks to following up on this observation:
a) Find out from those needing the defenses just how tight they feel they
need to be with "humans only" or "one to a customer" constraints. How much
could we relax those and they can still get on with life?
b) Examine the proposals dealing with identity federation to see if they
actually pass sensitive data or perform a "need to know" test and only
release [as certified] what the recipient needs to know. Patients have to
sign medical release forms.
To get on somebody's "known email senders" list you are probably quite happy
to be identified, at least in human terms, to that party. You shouldn't
have to jump through a hoop for a website, there should be some other way to
qualify, not to go directly to their "known email senders" list but to their
inbox for screening. Get you admitted for the person employing the spam
defense to read your .sig / bio / vcard and say 'yes.'
My favorite pipe dream on the spam front is to apply economic pressure.
Make the unrecognized person requesting access to your inbox pony up a
deposit. If the recipient considers the message a spam, they keep the
deposit. If they say the message is OK, the sender keeps the deposit.
It's that simple. Would separate advertisers that people welcome from
spammers who live off the unrealistically free cost of IP.
Al
Michael
-- Signature --
Michael Cooper
Accessibility Product Manager, Watchfire
1 Hines Rd, Kanata, ON K2K 3C7, Canada
+1 (613) 599-3888 x4019
michaelc@watchfire.com
Watchfire's spam filter often mistakes legitimate email for spam. If this
filter sends you a reply that an email to me was not delivered, please
inform me of the problem using alternate contact information provided above.
I do not consider your message spam and apologize for problems caused by
this filter.
This is related to the problem that IMS approached in profiling -
people don't want to give away more information than is required for a
particular purpose. P3P also had to address this issue. In principle a
federated identity system should allow for this flexibility.
But there is nothing to prevent people from generating a million
federated identities automatically. I have created federated identities
for non-existent people without much difficulty - unless you have a
reliable certification authority this will continue to allow spammers
to do so.
There are also potential serious security concerns raised by federated
identity systems in current deployment...
But Al's pipe dream is my paranoid nightmare. When someone in a small
business in Columbia writes to me in the fervent hope that I will look
at Blindux, the idea that they should put up a deposit that I can just
decide to keep is going to be a large disincentive. But not to have
discovered that the system exists would have cost me a great deal.
cheers
Chaals
Charles McCathieNevile Fundaci?n Sidar
charles@sidar.org http://www.sidar.org
What was their solution?
Al
