Hi,all:
I am a newer to this list,for I am considering to implement the cscw under web.I have several question below,I donot know whether it should be debated:
1.When one use put an object to the server,how to let the other users know the changes immediately?For example,when one create a image,the other uesrs' screen should also show the image.As I know,http does not support the push now.So,how to do that?
2.I have read the WebDAV protocol-06 document,I think it is mainly based on html editor.I think using html has many shortcoming.
Using HTML,when changed a litter,the whole web frame will be refreshed,it caused not only slow,but also incovenient.And,the interface isnot easy to use.Comparing to the windows application,it does not support menu,popupmenu,and many things.I think it is really hard to make the user satisfatied.
well,we can also use the Java and the Activex technology,and I think using Java is more efficient then using HTML.
What do you think of these technologies in WebDAV fields?
3.Is it possible to provide the video confrence services through web?Not using other products such as webphone,can we interegrate the video conference into the web?
Thanks a lot!
Yours
Wang HanMin
Wang HanMin:
So am I. ;-) [1]
I am probably not an expert on WebDAV, but I hope that I have
grasped enough of it to be able to contribute some thoughts.
I have several question below,I donot know whether it should =
I do not think that WebDAV will be able to accomplish that.
I could think of at least three ways to get this functionality:
(1) setting up a push channel (could also be a custom udp or
multicast mechanism) for update notifications
(2) polling the web server for changes at certain intervals
(3) using a session-based protocol (such as e.g. IRC =:-) that
offers update "channels" where changes are "broadcast"
While I will probably try the last solution, the first (and
possibly second) alternatives might be "cleaner" solutions
from a protocol design standpoint.
Actually, WebDAV can be used to store and
retrieve any type of document content.
The versioning working group might come up with some ideas as to
how to calculate differences (diffs) between revisions - this might
help to implement some mechanism for displaying changes incrementally.
There are other protocols such as RTP and RTSP that are designed
specifically to deal with conferencing. You might want to use something like
Java or browser plug-ins to allow conference windows to be embedded in a
browser frame. Conferences are usually based on "streaming" data, while HTTP
is based on (more or less) atomic transactions, so it is usually advisable
to use a more specialized protocol for video conferencing.
Yours,
Markus.
[1] http://mediator.cs.uni-bonn.de/mediator/
Today's excuse: System consumed all the paper for paging.
I agree with Markus Fleck's response -- some amplifications below:
On Thursday, January 22, 1998 2:21 AM, Markus Fleck
Please keep me (and the list) informed of your progress implementing the
WebDAV protocol. The IETF procedures are set up such that we need multiple
independent implementations of the protocol to advance from Proposed
Standard to Draft Standard, and even having implementations going to
Proposed Standard helps a lot.
I have also heard people discuss using email (SMTP) or netnews (NNTP) for
sending notification messages. One current solution to this problem is
employed by the BSCW group (http://bscw.gmd.de/) which created a separate
notification protocol, which is received by a helper application.
based =
Very, very true. WebDAV is based on the HTTP protocol which has no
restrictions on the type of content it can transmit. For example, it would
not be difficult at all to implement a word processor which uses the WebDAV
protocol for remote storage of word processing documents.
Jeff Mogul (and others, including Yaron) have recently submitted proposals
on delta encoding and instance digests which address transmission of
changes between versions of a resource:
ftp://ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-mogul-http-delta-00.txt
ftp://ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-mogul-http-digest-00.txt
- Jim
Jim Whitehead:
Weren't there some patent issues involved with these deltas?
Have these already been resolved?
Yours,
Markus.
Today's excuse: System consumed all the paper for paging.
It appears this draft is ducking the issue, providing a mechanism by which
multiple difference formats can be used. However, the draft will have to
pick a preferred encoding to ensure interoperability, which will then get
back into the issue again.
I am not totally up-to-date on the status of the IP concerns regarding the
various delta mechanisms.
- Jim
On Thursday, January 22, 1998 9:18 AM, Markus Fleck
incrementally.
proposals
There is an interesting new internet draft (not surprisingly,
written by someone who works at Lotus Development Corporation)
for a group event notification protocol.
It is called "Simple General Awareness Protocol" (SGAP), and the
name of the draft is draft-day-sgap-00.txt , available by FTP
at ds.internic.net or a mirror server near you.
This SGAP protocol might be exactly what you (what we ;) need
to bring synchronous notification into WebDAV.
The creator of the draft, Mr. Mark Day, was
(is?) subscribed to the WebDAV mailing list.
There seem to be some further papers about Lotus's efforts
at http://www.lotus.com/home.nsf/welcome/research .
Viele Gruesse,
Markus.
Markus Fleck
MMediator Free Groupware Project
