Hi everybody,
Can Amaya run on Nano-X ?? I would like to use it on Nano-X .
Thanks
ALEX
Hello,
I read the documentation and searched the ML-archive, and shoudn't find an
issue about this.
Here is my problem:
My web pages are hosted by web servers enabling the use of embedded
PHP-scripts. These scripts can be pointed to the attention of the web
server by many ways, one of them being the ?PHP... the php script ...? tag.
My problem is that there is a confusion with the DOCTYPE header, that is
being foreworded by the XML declaration:
That makes the web server to confuse about this tag, and point out a PHP
syntax error, even in my pure HTML documents (saved with the HTML extension).
My impression is that Amaya 5.1 didn't insert this tag. So I would like to
disable the auto-insertion of this tag, or modify the Doctype header so
that it doesn't wake the PHP-mod of Apache.
Is there a way to do that?
Thanks in advance.
ifrance.com, l'email gratuit le plus complet de l'Internet !
vos emails depuis un navigateur, en POP3, sur Minitel, sur le WAP...
Thus it seems that you are saving in XHTML, not plain HTML.
This is why you find the XML declaration before !DOCTYPE .
My understanding is that your ISP has chosen the "light
PHP approach", and therefore a plain ? triggers the PHP
mode. If this were the case, the only way to cope with this
is really to ask Amaya people if it could be possible
to save a file not in XHTML.
ciao, .mau.
Vincent:
To me, the bug is on the server side.
It's not a bug, but a feature:
short_open_tag in Apache configuration. See
which actually says
short_open_tag boolean
Tells whether the short form ( ? ? ) of PHP's open tag should be allowed. If you want to use PHP in combination with XML, you have to disable this option. If disabled, you must use the long form of the open tag ( ?php ? ).
ciao, .mau.
Thank you all for this precision. I seldom work with PHP, so I didn't catch
the spot.
I will solve it on the server side.
ifrance.com, l'email gratuit le plus complet de l'Internet !
vos emails depuis un navigateur, en POP3, sur Minitel, sur le WAP...
