Does anybody have a client implementation of Digest Auth from the
"specification formerly known as RFC 2069"?
User-Agent: Mozilla/4.0 (compatible; MSIE 4.01; Windows NT)
and
User-Agent: W3CCommandLine/5.1m libwww/5.1m
seem tied to Basic only..
thanks,
-P
Contact-EmailRonald.Tschalaer@psi.ch
Resubmissionresubmit
Publicationpublic
App-NameHTTPClient
App-VersionV0.4-dev, running on JDK 1.1 or later
App-Typeclient
DescriptionClient library in Java
includes implementation of all features.
Contact-Emailjcma@ai.mit.edu
Resubmissionnew_submit
Publicationpublic
App-NameCL-HTTP
App-Version67.47
App-Typecombined
DescriptionAlso includes client and web walker
implements:
A 3.2.1WWW-Authenticate Digestt
but not all authentication draft features.
The authentication features are holding us up, and it is important
to have more client implementations.
This is another plea for implementation reports and/or updates to existing
implementation reports, so we can get these specifications to draft standard.
If we don't have at least 2 interoperable implementations of each feature
by, say, the August IETF meeting, we'll have to strongly consider dropping
those features from the protocol. This is required by IETF rules for draft
standard. Note we need 2 interoperable implementations of each feature;
there is no requirement that these implementations be shipped as product
at the time of reporting, or for that matter, ever. The point of the
requirement is to show that the specification can be independently
implemented and that the protocol as specified works.
We've asked for time at the IETF meeting to discuss any such cases where
we don't meet IETF requirements. There aren't many more features that
need implementation and testing, though Digest authentication is more
of a problem than the base specification.
Data on all reported implementations can be found at:
resonably up to date (there is one report I haven't added yet).
Most reports are public; in general, you should be able to find
someone to test features against given the data available on that
page.
Please let me know of any new implementations, or any features that
you've tested since your report (I'm willing to update an existing report
for new features, rather than require you to fill out the very long form
yet again to report a few changes to the status of tested features).
Thanks again to all who have contributed...
Your editor (of the base HTTP spec)
Jim Gettys
If someone wants to remind me where the latest digest auth spec lives,
I'll have a crack at bringing Apache's digest auth up to speed (if it
isn't already - it's not clear to me from the report whether it is, but
I could've sworn there were some changes since it was last touched).
If there's anything else critical Apache can help with, let me know what
and I'll see what I can do.
Cheers,
Ben.
A.L. Digital Ltd, |Apache-SSL author http://www.apache-ssl.org/
London, England. |"Apache: TDG" http://www.ora.com/catalog/apache/
WE'RE RECRUITING! http://www.aldigital.co.uk/recruit/
