Well we shall have to differ.
Your special cases require a work around, but the foundation is also
requisite.
However You are only fooling yourself if you do not think a spellchecker is
useful. You stop your argument where the challenge starts. OK so the stats
are out.
What do I do ....ahh Tanya is not a name we find and replace 'green' for
'red' bus. Else you have to search the whole db for sections of
functionality. X ratings I understand are self determined to a great extent.
Gould+Dawkins+baseball will turn up something, I would not like to guarantee
what. Whatever was gteed on the www.
Why is it that qualia should be ignored?
Chess has been solved to a human degree.
I am currently helping with 'expert' knowledge on one of the world champion
GO programs, and with this there is work to be done.
Start building relationships please. Independencies make me nervous
Ohio go sigh mass. (It must be there, somewhere)
jay
Well personally I find spelling checkers so annoying that I don't use
them unless I really, really have to. Especially if they're American.
Maybe I'm just picky.
It's quite possible that some time in future computers may be more up to
this task, but from what I've seen, they're not at the moment and
probably won't be in the next few months or so at least (as far as I
know this is not a "far futures" group - in the far future, the web will
be in a completely different form anyway if indeed it still exists).
I don't really understand that sentence. Are you suggesting that the
content of pages be changed, by automatically changing statements like
"This is a green bus" to "This is a red bus"? Why?
At least Chess has much fewer rules than general understanding. The
latter would take a bit longer to solve. I would suggest that the day
it is fully solved is the day Commander Data walks on the scene.
Regards
-- Silas S Brown, St John's College Cambridge UK http://epona.ucam.org/~ssb22/
"It is one of the great tragedies of our society that from fear, poor
teaching, or lack of motivation the vast majority of people have shut
themselves off from the mathematical poetry and music of nature. The sweeping
vista that mathematics reveals is denied to them. They may delight over the
scent of a rose or the colour of a sunset, but a whole dimension of aesthetic
experience is foreclosed to them." - Paul Davies, in "Superforce: The
Search for a Grand Unified Theory of Nature"
You are taking all this from a rather personal viewpoint, which is not very
helpful when considering Learning Difficulties.
My comments are specific to non-readers and those learning to read.
Dictionaries are the final recourse, and I use them daily.
As far as the bus goes yes I really copied a red bus icon from a picture
bank and coloured it green and printed it inumerable times.
Our coaches are green, a red one makes no sense in our context.
Red buses in London are double decker and public transport. This saved me a
lot of work.
My point about the chess is that if you are a follower of Turing you are
seeking the absolute chess player.
For me the better adventure is searching for the ideal teacher, and for
chess we are entering that arena.
I readily admit that with language we cannot claim more than a trivial
aquaintance. However LD adults deserve everything available and some.
Fortunately Scalable Vector Graphics are frequently a lot more transparent
than text.
I really do have to get back to my real work and believe that for the
present the current interest group must have a feel for what our opinions
are.
jay
Oh right - I thought you were talking about giving a checking device to
fully-literate web page authors and expecting them to use it.
Four those learning two reed, eye don't think spell checkers and sew
on can bee any reel substitute four human teachers, at least knot yet.
(My checker says that this is perfect, four egg sample.) Maybe ewe have
had moor success with them than aye have.
Anyway, hope the alt thing's useful.
Regards
-- Silas S Brown, St John's College Cambridge UK http://epona.ucam.org/~ssb22/
"We cannot all be masters" - Shakespeare
