Dear all,
A new version of the example of the implementation plan (corporate),
to be included in our resources, is available. It incorporates all
the comments discussed in the last call. I hope I did not miss
anything, if so, let me know:
(the previous version is at:
As Judy would say, comments to the list smile .
Regards,
Carlos
Dr Carlos A Velasco
GMD - German National Research Center for Information Technology
Institute for Applied Information Technology (FIT.HEB)
Schloss Birlinghoven, D53757 Sankt Augustin (Germany)
DISTEC: Discapacidad y Tecnolog?a de la Rehabilitaci?n
Judy Brewer jbrewer@w3.org +1.617.258.9741 http://www.w3.org/WAI
Director, Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI) International Program Office
World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)
MIT/LCS Room NE43-355, 200 Technology Square, Cambridge, MA, 02139, USA
this provides a really base! here are my comments:
1. here is an edit on the first paragraph last sentence. also not sure
people will understand 'rendering devices' and we may need simpler language.
also big difference in the action where the word 'possible' is stated. also
i may this more complex and not sure if it needed but i am trying to
highlight that this is is to be used by all - not just people with
disabilities.
"This policy will ensure our Web site is accessible to the widest possible
audience and this includes people accessing our websites with different
browsers and devices. The devices may be used by people with disabilities
as well as without disabilties and the web site may be rendered through a
voice, text or other device. "
2. For section 2 Introduction paragraph, how about a simple intorduction
paragraph.
Successful implementation of the XYZ web accessibility requirements requires
a plan that will obtain buy-in from all department plan. The key areas that
need to be addressed are organizational reviews, generating milestones,
current situation analysis, training process, and quality assurance.
3. Under 2. Introduction's 2nd paragraph, these are milestones and may need
to be under that header. "The plan is subject to change and will be reviewed
and evaluated by a mixed team of external and internal experts in weeks 6,
12 and 24 from its starting date. "
4. For 2.1. Organizational changes, want to avoid the word 'changes' - not
good. suggest organization reviews. I have an issue with ths paln in the
voice and tense we are using. Are we laying out a plan to do an
implementation review or are we writing how it will be implemented. I
propose we write as an assessment and impact study.
5. Probably need to address cost and resources somewhere. i saw positions,
but may want ta separate bullet for resources.
Dear all,
I uploaded a third revision of the example of implementation plan:
corporate, following Friday's discussion on:
Please, let me know on the list, since we are not meeting in the next
two weeks, anything missing. I fixed as well some spelling typos.
Rob, thanks for your comments. See my remarks between your comments.
Suggestion included with a slight rewording :-)
This paragraph is rather confusing for a non-native speaker. I looked up
in several places "buy-in", and I could not find a definition. Maybe it
is business jargon. I will be happy to include your suggestion, if you
help us, non-native speakers, with the first sentence :-))
Done
"Changes" eliminated. The voice and tense was agreed some
"teleconferences" ago, but it is possible to modify it. In regard to
your last comment, again, you've got me lost again.
There will be an appendix on costs. In regard to resources, I might be
wrong, but I see it belonging to the business plan, but not to the
implementation plan. Again, you have far more experience than me in this
issues.
Regards,
carlos
Dr Carlos A Velasco
GMD - German National Research Center for Information Technology
Institute for Applied Information Technology (FIT.HEB)
Schloss Birlinghoven, D53757 Sankt Augustin (Germany)
hey carlos,
Seems i made sense on two of five comments. that is pretty good for me and
am getting better grin .
1. good point on 'buy-in'. it is use frequently here in the united states
and not sure how this would translate. the meaning is to obtain approval
from all departments in a good way before so you can move forward. this is
something that you work toward and may have to barter ideas, schedules,
costs, or tasks to get everyone to agree. some items may be lsot in the
process as you obtain concensus. that may be a better phrase 'obtain
concensus".
2. a major part of implementation plan is identfying the resources and
stating who needs to be part of this. another important part is to identify
the 'asumptions and risks' as well as the 'depencies and constraints'.
while it is true 'asumptions and risks' as well as the 'depencies and
constraints' would be in the business case, the implementation plan would be
read by another audience (remember the business case is normally for
directors and executives, whereas the implementation plan is for their staff
as they are the ones doing the work). hence i believe the plan's audience
would want to see resources in there.
cheers, rob
Hi all,
I uploaded the new version of the Corporate Implementation Plan to:
I included Lila's comments from Friday, and the remarks of yesterday's
discussion.
Any more comments are welcome.
Rob, in regard to your comments of Apr 22:
I included these elements with slight rewordings.
With regard to this point, we tried to figure out your "intentions" in
yesterday's call, but it was not clear for any of us. I will appreciate
if you can be more concrete (which parts of the document are you
addressing?), or even participate in the next call to discuss this
point.
regards,
carlos
Dr Carlos A Velasco
GMD - German National Research Center for Information Technology
Institute for Applied Information Technology (FIT.HEB)
Schloss Birlinghoven, D53757 Sankt Augustin (Germany)
