Hi,
I have just installed Amaya 2.4 and the following problems came up:
1. The following MathML code is not interpretted correctly:
b Theorem (Brouwer) /b i Let
be an orientation preserving homeomorphism which possesses a periodic
point p which is not a fixed point. Then f has a fixed point of
positive index. /i
/body.
I get the question sign (?) in place where there should be an arrow (- , coded
in MathML with "&amp;to").
There are other symbols which also not displayed, or rather replaced by "?",
like &amp;ldots (three dots), &amp;emptyset, &amp;leq (less or equal), &amp;neq (not equal),
&amp;geq (greater or equal).
2. When I link to http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-amaya/ none of the
links, neither the search button work.
can you comment please?
Regards
Andrzej
Dr. Andrzej Pindor The foolish reject what they see and
University of Toronto not what they think; the wise reject
Information Commons what they think and not what they see.
andrzej.pindor@utoronto.ca Huang Po
1. In the current version, Amaya uses only the Symbol font in addition to
ISO-Latin1 fonts. For this reason, a number of mathematical symbols
can't be displayed properly. They appear in the form of a question
mark. But, don't worry, if you save the document, the original entity
is preserved.
We are well aware of this limitation and will do our best to improve
the situation in future releases.
2. I am not sure I understand your second point. If you are talking
about the AltaVista search form, the issue is that this HTML
page in completely screwed up. If you submit it to an HTML validator,
you will see a number of errors. Amaya has some problems with
such pages, and in this particular case, it misses the FORM tag
(look at the Structure view: this tag is displayed in red, which means
that it has not been interpreted), and the form can't work. I have
reported the error to people in charge of the server.
Vincent.
Vincent Quint INRIA Rhone-Alpes
W3C/INRIA ZIRST
e-mail: Vincent.Quint@w3.org 655 avenue de l'Europe
These entities are not defined in the MathML 2.0 draft dated 4 November
1999 that has been taken as a reference for Amaya 2.4. Where do they
come from?
Vincent.
Vincent Quint INRIA Rhone-Alpes
W3C/INRIA ZIRST
e-mail: Vincent.Quint@w3.org 655 avenue de l'Europe
Vincent Quint quint@w3.org said:
Any plans on supporting Unicode and/or UTF-8 encoding in the near future?
Peace,
Bertrand Ibrahim.
Bertrand.Ibrahim@cui.unige.ch
There are very few Unicode encoded fonts, and I doubt
there are any UTF-8 encoded fonts; it wouldn't surprise
me if Amaya is Unicode internally, but that doesn't help
if you are running on Windows 98 with the only Unicode fonts
being CJK.
In-reply-to: Your message of Wed, 09 Feb 2000 12:56:07 +0100."
Yes we plan to release an Alpha Unicode version of Amaya in March or April.
Amaya will be able to read UTF-8 or Iso-Latin files. Of course we will need
specific fonts to display non Iso-Latin characters.
Irene.
In-reply-to: Your message of Wed, 09 Feb 2000 12:56:07 +0100."
We are working on the Unicode version of Amaya.
It will be avauilable soon.
655 Avenue de l'Europe | e-mail: Ramzi.Guetari@w3.org
38330 Montbonnot Saint Martin - France | http://www.w3.org
In-reply-to: Your message of Wed, 09 Feb 2000 12:08:27 +0000."
UTF8 is a character encoding and there is no font encoding.
Ramzi.
655 Avenue de l'Europe | e-mail: Ramzi.Guetari@w3.org
38330 Montbonnot Saint Martin - France | http://www.w3.org
I wish this were also the case with numeric character references (NCRs). If
you load a file containing, say, &amp;#338; (an OE ligature), Amaya will nicely
determine that it cannot display that and display OE as a fallback instead.
That's OK, but when you save, you'll find that the file now contains "OE",
not your original &amp;#338;. Without even as much as a warning, I think this
is, hmmm, impolite and should be fixed.
Fran?ois Yergeau
In-reply-to: Your message of Wed, 09 Feb 2000 15:47:22 -0500."
Yes, it's true for all entities.
Irene.
This bug has been fixed. Amaya now saves the original character reference
back, even if it can't display it properly. The fix is available in the
CVS base and will be included in the next binary release.
Thanks for pointing this out.
Vincent.
Vincent Quint INRIA Rhone-Alpes
W3C/INRIA ZIRST
e-mail: Vincent.Quint@w3.org 655 avenue de l'Europe
