I haven't heard any comments on the techniques 1.1.B and 4.3.A yet.
(These techniques deal with LONGDESC and document language.)
Does this mean that everyone agrees that they are OK as they stand?
Please speak up - Yea or Nay.
Chris
aloha, chris!
chris asked, re: the techniques for 1.1.B and 4.3.A,
to which gregory responds:
i vote yea for both
gregory
He that lives on Hope, dies farting
-- Benjamin Franklin, Poor Richard's Almanack, 1763
Gregory J. Rosmaita oedipus@hicom.net
President, WebMaster, &amp; Minister of Propaganda,
VICUG NYC http://www.hicom.net/~oedipus/vicug/
Yea to 1.1.B except no mention made of interim 'd' link until browsers
support LONGDESC.
Yea to 4.3.A except note that newer XML variation instead of LANG, such as:
!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.0 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-html40/strict.dtd"
-Brian
25,600+ EV miles since 5/97! See web page:
Brian,
Re technique 1.1.B (LONGDESC use):
I checked over the WAI Page Authoring Guidelines and they suggest, in their
techniques, using a 'd' link as well as the LONGDESC. Current versions of
Netscape &amp; IE do not support the LONGDESC so, until they do support it, we
should ask the author to put in a 'd' link for complex images. The 'd' links
are more messy for the page layout then the LONGDESC but it looks like, for
now, they will have to remain in use.
I'll update the ERT document today with this new info.
Re technique 4.3.A (LANG attribute):
I think that we'll have to concentrate on HTML for this version of repair
tools and ignore XML. If we start dealing with XML now, we'll never finish
on the HTML.
Chris
as:
For longdesc, there is the valid case where the image is complex,
there's no longdesc attribute, but the "longdesc" is inline, that is,
described in html markup close to the image (e.g. "Figure 1 presents
our new organization chart with Greg on top, Daniel at the bottom,
etc".)
A (somewhat costly) repair technique for guessing the primary LANG is
the use of dictionaries of common and exclusive words in common
languages. E.g. is you find "a, the, you, for, is, of, and" then it's
engligh, if you find "le, du, la, a, se, pour, aux, des, ne" then it's
french, etc.
Hmmm. If a document contained an image and the purpose of the document was
to describe the image then would that document be the LONGDESC file for the
image?
Perhaps the prompt for a LONGDESC should be something like:
You need a LONGDESC if the image is complex and it's not described in this
document.
Chris
I'll add your comment to the repair suggestions for the technique.
I think that this repair technique would only be useful if we were
performing an automatic repair without the users input.
Chris
