I'm trying to use lynx to place a secure order on:
In reading through the lynx.cfg file, I notice that there is some reference
to ssl but for some reason, it seems that https lynx are unsupported. Is
this the case? If so, is there a work around in the form of a patch or an
optional statement in the .cfg? If not, is there a plan to make it possible
to use lynx_w32 with ssl? Especially not that it seems the restriction has
been lifted with regard to export.
Thanks!
the mint would like to know.
David Poehlman
[DJW:]
Until last week, there was a licensing conflict that
prevented the redistribution of SSL Lynx, but not of the
patches and Lynx independently. Commercial use would
have required royalty payments in the USA, and possibly
other countries.
The patent on RSA has now expired, and the Lynx mailing
list is currently considering the implications. There
are still some issues to do with US export legislation,
although this probably amounts to getting the electronic
paperwork straight, as the export controls on opoen source
software were greatly relaxed early this year; SSL Lynx
would not have been exportable this time last year.
Note the copyright on RSAREF is probably still valid, so
previous US builds are probably still non-redistributable,
but an OpenSSL version should be.
NB. some of the symmetric ciphers that can be used in SSL
may be still in patent, but (IANAL) I believe that DES and
triple DES are out of patent and that MD5 is royalty free.
SSL, itself, is patented (by Netscape), but royalty free.
RSA was not royalty free for commercial users, and Lynx's
GPL requires the software to be royalty free for all
potential users.
--------------------------- DISCLAIMER ---------------------------------
Any views expressed in this message are those of the individual sender,
except where the sender specifically states them to be the views of BTS.
One other point to bear in mind is that some
web sites insist on specific browsers being used
for SSL. Part of the reasoning for this is that
they want someone to blame if there is a security
breach. Some Lynx users forge the User Agent to
get into those site, but, in my view, anyone doing
so would be at risk of being accused of fraud (the
sites tend to be financial organisations).
(There is a tradeoff here between the fact that there
is a company with a reputation to protect behind
commercial browsers and the open source nature of
things like Lynx allowing independent verification.
In these plug and play days, it would not be difficult
for someone to distribute a compromised binary of an
open source program.)
IANAL
--------------------------- DISCLAIMER ---------------------------------
Any views expressed in this message are those of the individual sender,
except where the sender specifically states them to be the views of BTS.
Personally, I have never encountered a site that required SSL that did also
require JavaScript. Seems to me that Lynx users are still being
unnecessarily discriminated against.
this is all fine, but is there a fix?
I have found many such sites. For example, to make secured purchases at
Amazon.com it is not necessary to run javascript, but SSL is necessary
(although they also provide the option of an insecure purchase).
I am sure there are many others.
Charles McCN
Personally, I have never encountered a site that required SSL that did also
require JavaScript. Seems to me that Lynx users are still being
unnecessarily discriminated against.
W3C Web Accessibility Initiative http://www.w3.org/WAI
Location: I-cubed, 110 Victoria Street, Carlton VIC 3053, Australia
September - November 2000:
W3C INRIA, 2004 Route des Lucioles, BP 93, 06902 Sophia Antipolis Cedex, France
[DJW:]
Before last week, your only option would have been
to compile it from source yourself (or use a local
proxy). You are asking a question at a time when
what you want to do is just becoming legally possible;
if you are unable to compile from sources, you should
find that someone does produce a copyright safe re-
distributable version in the next week or two.
Please be patient and either trace http://lynx.browser.org/
or subscribe to lynx-dev@sig.net (the latter will be a
more up to date source of information).
--------------------------- DISCLAIMER ---------------------------------
Any views expressed in this message are those of the individual sender,
except where the sender specifically states them to be the views of BTS.
