Having recently joined this list, certainly to sing the praises of
Amaya 4.0, I looked in the archives for object support.
I found eg the following from March 1999
"Date: Mon, 3 May 1999 18:44:16 -0400 (EDT)
From: Charles McCathieNevile charles@w3.org
Message-ID: Pine.LNX.4.10.9905031837200.22923-100000@tux.w3.org
Subject: OBJECT
Supporting OBJECT would be very cool. At the moment there is no obvious way
to make a cascade of objects except by going to the structure view."
Since Amaya, not being a "browser" does not support either
Java or plugins, but with it supporting JPG images, I
wondered how it might handle the following cascade of Objects.
It should presumably display vib.jpg. In fact, although it clearly
attempts to display this image, the image area is blank (at
least when we try on Windows 2000)
Can anyone comment on whether my expectations are correct,
and whether this might be a bug or a feature?
height="240" codetype="application/java"
codebase="http://www.ch.ic.ac.uk/chemime/tests/object/browsers/"
archive="chemsymphony.lite.zip" standby="Loading Java"
title="Object displayed using Java"
object data="models/codein.mol" type="chemical/x-mdl-molfile" width="320" height="240"
title="object displayed using browser plugin"
height="325" title="Display using image only"
Text displayed if neither object nor image can be displayed
This code is at
Dept. Chemistry, Imperial College, London, SW7 2AY, UK.
[DJW:] It's in "good" company! IE 5.01 makes a total mess of
this, at least if you reject ActiveX (for some reason, images
as objects are considered ActiveX by the security profile). You
get two broken image boxes of the appropriate size in each
column (not for the JPEG though), plus the fallback text.
(IE also runs object wave files in an external media player.)
Mozilla M17 seems OK.
I believe W3C were trying to get rid of object because of its
complexity and inconsistent implementation, but I have a feeling
it got a reprieve as there was nothing better.
--------------------------- DISCLAIMER ---------------------------------
Any views expressed in this message are those of the individual sender,
except where the sender specifically states them to be the views of BTS.
Well, if you are interested in the status of current implementations,
I did a simple test a while ago. Results can be found at:
Regards,
Masayasu Ishikawa / mimasa@w3.org
W3C - World Wide Web Consortium
A browser missing from the above list, and which appears to
implement object entirely consistently, and as intended by
the specification is icab (www.icab.de). I have always
been very impressed by this browser, and regard it,
along with Amaya, as the "carrier" of the specifications.
iCab has the advantage that it implements Java and the
Netscape plugin API, and so can be tested with
"chemical" objects.
I might also add that the MacOS platform is missing from
comment above (iCab is MacOS only!).
By the way, and apologies for veering somewhat off subject,
I find few search engines currently do anything like a sensible
job with object . We have engineered htdig to do this.
I agree however that the implementation of object is
logically difficult. object can be nested. How does one
ensure that the contents of each object layer are semantically
the SAME? One cannot in general of course, and I
suppose that is one reason that XML is really viewed as replacing
this aspect of HTML.
Dept. Chemistry, Imperial College, London, SW7 2AY, UK.
[ well, not quite related to Amaya, but keep the original list for now ... ]
I know ... the reason was, at the time of testing, unfortunately a Mac
in my office had burned out and I couldn't test Mac browsers, sorry.
And also, current design of `object' is difficult to control by style
sheets. Improvement/replacement of `object' is among requirements
for XHTML 2.0.
Regards,
Masayasu Ishikawa / mimasa@w3.org
W3C - World Wide Web Consortium
