New draft: http://www.w3.org/WAI/GL/WCAG20/WD-WCAG20-20001121.html
Latest draft is always available at: http://www.w3.org/WAI/GL/WCAG20/
History of changes: http://www.w3.org/WAI/GL/WCAG20/change-history.html
Note that I still have not completed my action item to clean up Checkpoint
2.1, 2.2, and 2.3. It will require a complete restructuring of these three
and I didn't have time to finish it up today.
Also note that there are several checkpoints that still use complex
language that I have not attempted to simplify or clarify yet.
Within the list of changes are 2 comments:
1. Guideline 3 is growing. We could probably combine some of the
checkpoints to clean it up a bit.
2. We use "style rules" "style sheets" and "style languages" should we
agree on one term to use or continue using all three?
However, in this new draft are the following changes:
? Changed the label on the new section in the introduction from
"proposed" to "new."
? Modified the examples for checkpoint 1.1 slightly to accommodate
Anne's and others comments.
? Note that the first example is illustrated but again it is not very
good. I still do not claim to be a graphic artist. I have not illustrated
the other two examples as I'm not sure if we should include them inline or
link to them in a techniques document somewhere.
? Also note that it includes text! This is based on Anne's suggestion
that icons have text in them. This goes against the arguments for putting
text in markup (ala the WCAG 1.0 checkpoint 3.1 arguments). This adds a new
dimension to this, I will follow up in a separate thread on that.
? Reworded checkpoint 1.1 to refer to "content" instead of "elements"
and added "Non-normative" to examples per the discussion at the 9 November
2000 telecon.
? Added a definition in the glossary for normative/non-normative.
? Changed the label on checkpoint 1.1 from proposed to new.
? Changed the headings in the Intro from questions to statements per
the 9 November 2000 telecon
? Included definition of auditory description from checkpoint 1.3 in
the glossary.
? Reworded checkpoint 1.3 to include idea of "synchronization."
? Added examples to checkpoint 1.3 per the 9 November 2000 telecon.
? Reworded Guideline 2, dropped, "explicitly define significant
structural or semantic distinctions in markup or in a data model." since
this is checkpoint 2.3.
? Reworded checkpoint 3.2 to remove a visual bias and included an
example, per the discussion of the 16 November 2000 telecon.
? In the 16 November 2000 telecon we realized we needed to use the
word "style" consistently. The only inconsistency I saw was in checkpoint
3.1. It said, "Use a consistent style of presentation..." I reworded this
to "Use consistency in presentation...". Other phrases that include the
word style
? style languages (used once)
? style sheets (used four times)
? style rules (used once)
Should we choose one of these three to use consistently throughout the
document?
? Combined 4.3, 6.2 and 6.3 into new 4.3 per the 16 November 2000
telecon.
? Added a new 3.11 (previously part of 4.3 and 6.3) the 16 November
2000 telecon. Note Guideline 3 really needs work. It is much longer than
the others. I think some of the checkpoints could be combined and made
easier to read. The note still needs work.
? Reworded Guideline 6
? Reworded Checkpoint 6.1, included definition of transform
gracefully. per discussion at the 16 November 2000 telecon.
? Added new checkpoint 6.2 based on Jason White's e-mail from 30
October 2000.
wendy a chisholm
world wide web consortium
web accessibility initiative
madison, wi usa
Please put in a target names for Checkpoint 3.11, Guideline 6, and
Checkpoint 6.2
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
natural and appropriate.
For example,
Divide user interface controls into logically organized groups.
Paragraphs and sections should have clear, accurate, and informative
headers. Limiting each paragraph to one main idea will help people process
the information.
Use headings, paragraphs, lists etc., appropriately to communicate
relationships among items, topics or ideas.
Another point should be considered. Illustrate content and place it close
enough to the related text for the user to associate them, or, if the
graphic cannot be positioned relative to the text, include an explicit
statement in text and again close to the graphic, associating the
illustration to it's companion text.
Rationale: The guideline provides explicit help to the page designer on how
to structure text for better usability, but is offered nothing about the
rest of the visual elements. I think designers would appreciate some
guidance. First of all is to indicate that illustrations are needed and
should be included in the content and structure, not just as presentation.
How they are best presented may be up for discussion.
Anne
Anne L. Pemberton
apembert@crosslink.net
Enabling Support Foundation
