Dear All,
This message to inform you about the workshop on "Web Device
Independent Authoring" to be held in Bristol, UK, October 3-4 2000,
hosted by HPLabs.
The Call for Participation and Registration forms are available at
The primary areas of interest for this workshop are the issues related
to creating content for multiple platforms and for all users. Our goal
is to explore how the diverse needs of content providers and consumers
for delivery of content across many platforms can be met through the
use of appropriate standards, notations, tools and guidelines.
Daniel Dardailler danield@w3.org
Roger Crimson roger_gimson@hplb.hpl.hp.com
Workshop Chairs
Is this conference also going to address the development of guidelines that
can optimize the benefits of the web for the educationally challenged and
persons with learning disability.
Should I ask my contacts at the learning disability organizations for their
input? I can ask someone from the BDA (British Dyslexia Association) to
attend.
Yours
Lisa Seeman
Get Your Private, Free E-mail from MSN Hotmail at http://www.hotmail.com
LS:: "Is this conference also going to address the development of
guidelines that can optimize the benefits of the web for the
educationally challenged and persons with learning disability."
WL: Short answer: yes. Longer answer is that throughout W3C and
especially WAI "everyone, everything connected" is more than a slogan. I
know the "everyone" part seems slighted and it is possible that our
central notions of full interoperability, universal design, and device
independence are vain hopes - well-meaning but impractical - but at
least one old geezer thinks not.
Often used pejoratively is "one size fits all" but the implications of
that might be too facile in a culture (humankind) in which "blind",
"dumb", "illiterate", etc. are built into languages (at least this one)
with an implied put-down attitude.
The characteristics of "this conference" will be determined by its
participants and if any of this means anything to you or your "contacts"
the best course of action is to join in - we need all the help we can
get. The guidelines are a dynamic, living document that will be changed
or else be of no import. So: don't just ask - do!
Since we seek full inclusion and since the populations you seem to
represent are probably the largest groups of PWDs world-wide, it would
really be helpful to have their needs properly addressed. If we lack the
experience to address this intelligently, then shame on us, but shame on
whoever knows about this possibility and doesn't assist us with
guidance.
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
