I hope that this isn't a terribly ignorant question, but I'm interested
in putting forms on my department's web site, and I'm worried about how
to make the forms accessible. Is that possible? I was planning on using
FrontPage to do it, but I gave up on FP when I ran into formatting
problems with it's import feature. I will probably end up writing the
forms in VB Script. Any ideas or URLs with info about this would be very
helpful. Thanks!
Kristine Bradow
Wayne State University College of Engineering
Enabling Technologies Laboratory
kbradow@ece.eng.wayne.edu
Won't you run into support of VB Script issues by different browsers? I
think you would want to stick to straight HTML. It is my understanding
that most user agents are capable of handling HTML generated forms.
-Jamie
From: Kristine Bradow[SMTP:kbradow@ece.eng.wayne.edu]
Subject: Accessible Forms?
I hope that this isn't a terribly ignorant question, but I'm interested
in putting forms on my department's web site, and I'm worried about how
to make the forms accessible. Is that possible? I was planning on using
FrontPage to do it, but I gave up on FP when I ran into formatting
problems with it's import feature. I will probably end up writing the
forms in VB Script. Any ideas or URLs with info about this would be very
helpful. Thanks!
Kristine Bradow
Wayne State University College of Engineering
Enabling Technologies Laboratory
kbradow@ece.eng.wayne.edu
HTML forms are accessible for nearly all browsers (assuming the brrowser is
reasonably accessible in the first place). VB Script is not. Not even nearly.
But the answer would involve using something other than FP it seems, or
drawing up your page in FP and then fixing it using Notepad or something.
This seems to be a standard thing in accessible design - until the tools
are a LOT better, learning HTML is at some level pretty necessary. Lucky
it's pretty simple.
Charles McCathieNevile
Chuck said
'Whoa, hang on a minute...'
So I'd better clarify...
VB (and Javascript and Java) are far from universally supported. This
provides an accessibility problem even before considering what is
actually done. Chuck is quite right - using HTML to write a form is not a
guarantee that it will be accessible, but it is a step towards being more
certain.
There are a whole raft of issues that need to be considered, but the
point was that by relying on scripts inside pages there will be a raft of
users locked out by the technology.
My comments were not meant to stand as a guide to what makes stuff
accessible, but were just a response to what immediately struck me as the
biggest accessiblity concern in the approach outlined. Detailed
explanations available on application - but I guess this disclaimer is a
bit late.
cheers
Charles
Whoa! VBScript, as JavaScript or JScript only provides behavior on top of
HTML - the accessibility of a page is not affected by the presence, or lack
of scripting.
Sure, I can create an inaccessible HTML page with scripts, I can do it
without scripts too.
VBScript is only a language - it's not user interface. The form controls
are exactly the same.
HTML forms are accessible for nearly all browsers (assuming the brrowser is
reasonably accessible in the first place). VB Script is not. Not even
nearly.
But the answer would involve using something other than FP it seems, or
drawing up your page in FP and then fixing it using Notepad or something.
This seems to be a standard thing in accessible design - until the tools
are a LOT better, learning HTML is at some level pretty necessary. Lucky
it's pretty simple.
Charles McCathieNevile
As Charles McCathieNevile noted, forms are already accessible in most of
the modern browsers (Netscape 1.0 up and IE 3.0 up - just out of
curiosity, were there any IE browsers prior to 3.0?). For the browsers
that don't recognize forms (I'm not familiar with them, but I know they
exist), the most viable solution would be to provide and e-mail address
to send the information too. A note can be included in the form
instructions to this effect. Whether the form appears in the browser or
not, the names of the fields you've coded in straight HTML text will
appear. That way, the user will know what information is being
collected and can send this info via e-mail.
I don't use FrontPage to code HTML. I mostly code using a text editor.
I have recently started using Allaire Home Site to do some of the grunt
work and Dreamweaver has done wonders as well. Your message seems to
indicate that you haven't included forms in your site before and you
haven't developed scripts to process the information gathered in the
form. Consequently, I would recommend doing some reading on both form
creation and scripts to process the data (CGI primarily). I would
suggest you start at:
page covers using CGI to e-mail information collected through a form.
You'll probably want to check out Matt's Script Archive (FormMail) to
get info on this. The address is: http://worldwidemart.com/scripts/
Good luck and let us know if you need more guidance.
Raymond Simmons
Technical Consultant and Programming Specialist
Terra Incognita Interactive Media
www.terraincognita.com
318.443.7833 Telephone
318.443.6123 Facsimile
Yes, there is an MSIE 2 (I use it reasonably often because it is nice and
small), and it does work with forms.
Actually I assume there is an MSIE 1 as well, but I have never heard of
it. But then I never heard of DOS 1 - the oldest versions I new of were
2.11 and Apple DOS 3.2
Forms run through CGI scripts are almost universally supported (except
they can't be put onto CD's without a lot of work). I think the ISINDEX
thing is older, but the experts would have to confirm that.
Charles McCathieNevile
