This serves to close
I had put this issue on the issues list because in examples
7-9 of the BidiExamples page
(http://www.w3.org/International/iri-edit/BidiExamples),
I saw Arabic-Indic digits in the Arabic examples rather
than the European digits that I was expecting.
Further examination has shown that this is a browser issue.
Netscape 7 (/Mozilla) is the only browser that I have found
that converts digit shapes when displaying them. Tango,
IE6, Safari, and Opera don't change digit shapes.
Section 13.3 (http://www.unicode.org/book/ch13.pdf, p. 320)
of Unicode 3.0 is clear that nominal behavior (not changing
the glyphs used to display the digits) is correct, and
using national digit shaping would only be acceptable if
using the deprecated and strongly discouraged numeric
shape selectors (which I have of course not used).
So Netscape/Mozilla is wrong here, and should be fixed.
I have told somebody in the i18n team at Netscape.
I have added a note at the top of the BidiExamples page
saying that a browser doing digit shaping correctly should
be used. I have closed this issue.
Regards, Martin.
Hello Rasha,
Many thanks for your comments.
Hello Martin,
Regarding numeric shapes in the browser, they should follow the system
settings,
I have a Japanese system, and don't remember having made such
a system setting. And you seem to imply that if such a system
setting is present, all the digits would appear as Arabic
digits. Fortunately for me, that's not the case. Even on the page
in question (http://www.w3.org/International/iri-edit/BidiExamples),
only digits in vicinity of Arabic characters change shape.
I'm not sure what the rule/algorithm is that Netscape uses for this.
I don't like undefined (and therefore unpredictable and varying)
behavior.
so if it is contextual or national they should appear in Arabic
digits. Otherwise they should appear in European digits.
Who made up this rule? Unicode clearly states otherwise, as I already
have explained (see below). And HTML and XML are based on Unicode.
So Netscape is working properly, please don't ask to disable this feature.
also IE behaves the same way.
In my case, IE doesn't, as I have explained before (see below).
I haven't said anything that would deprecate Arabic(-Indic) digits.
Unicode has them, and anybody who wants to use them can use them.
However, I wanted the digits in my page, which are European digits,
to be displayed as European digits, and I think any browser (or other
application, for that matter) that tries to change this behind my
back is doing something wrong.
Regards, Martin.
Please refer to the following bug for this issue:
Rasha, I think you should argue your position in the above bug if you
feel strongly but Simon indicates in his latest comments that Gecko
should follow Section 13.3 of Unicode 3.0 as referred to by Martin.
- Kat
Hello Martin,
Regarding numeric shapes in the browser, they should follow the system
settings,
so if it is contextual or national they should appear in Arabic
digits. Otherwise they should appear in European digits.
So Netscape is working properly, please don't ask to disable this
feature.
also IE behaves the same way.
Katsuhiko Momoi momoi@netscape.com
Senior International Manager, Web Standards/Embedding
Netscape Technology Evangelism/Developer Support
