I've got comments from Frank and Jan to fold in, and am still fiddling
with images (using omnigraffle). Aaron's right that the latter half of the
spec could be shorter, though it can't just be a table of classes and
properties; we need to say what they are. i'll try using HTML definition
lists.
I think the doc is starting to look like a Working Draft again, but I
doubt its a release candidate. Having it available prominently as a
WG-internal draft during WWW2002 (alongside Primer) from our home page is
probably the way to go.
Re the classes and properties, did I miss any or goof any definitions?
there is some terminology confusion: re container, and i'm not sure what
to do with the extensibility stuff yet. That's quite important given the
whole webont layering thing, should probably be lifted up into the first
part of the doc.
Another worry re terminology is that we have two Semantic Web working
groups. One group calls RDF schemas 'schemas', the other calls them
'ontologies'. To date we've not really used the latter term in RDF Core
specs. I personally don't like it, but that's not important. What is
importnat is terminological consistency at least within the RDF-based
corner of W3C's work. I'm stumped as to what we do about that. People will
ask us (of some RDF/XML schema that uses WebOnt machinery) whether it is
an 'ontology' or a 'schema'. Maybe we don't need an answer, but it does
seem a bit odd to not know collectively (in WebOnt + RDF Core) what we
think we're talking about. Editorial suggestions / contribs on this
welcomed...
Dan
snip
Before we contemplate changing what we're calling a "schema" to an
"ontology", I'd like to get WebOnt's official blessing on the idea that
what we actually have in an RDF schema is an ontology (primitive,
perhaps, but an ontology). Do they really consider RDF Schemas to be
ontologies? There have been very extensive debates in various circles
on exactly what you have to have in a language in order to claim you
have an "ontology" and, if we're going to get involved in such debates,
I'd want to make sure the W3C semantic web groups at least are speaking
with a reasonably common voice. My own response to someone who asked
whether an RDF Schema was a schema or an ontology would be "it's not an
"or" kind of question". If they asked whether an XML Schema was a
schema or an ontology, my response would be "depends on what you intend
to use it for" (we have some XML schemas that claim to be ontologies,
and in a sense they're probably right).
--Frank
Frank Manola The MITRE Corporation
202 Burlington Road, MS A345 Bedford, MA 01730-1420
This is my view too. My own response would be that a _specific_ RDF
Schema is an implementation (or embodiment) of a _specific_ ontology. To
the extent that an ontology can be expressed in a variety of ways,
`schema' is the more precise term. If you speak of schemas and
ontologies in general terms then they tend to become interchangeable.
Perhaps you can use the words `program' and `algorithm' to illustrate a
similar contrast.
For these reasons it seems right that we should talk about schemas (the
embodiment) and WebOnt should talk about ontologies (the abstract).
Martyn Horner martyn.horner@profium.com
Profium, Les Espaces de Sophia,
Immeuble Delta, B.P. 037, F-06901 Sophia-Antipolis, France
Mob. +33 (0)6.21.01.54.56 Internet: http://www.profium.com
Please, no. No asking the community to review editor's drafts.
If it's good enough for the WWW2002 audience, it's good enough
for /TR/ publication.
Dan Connolly, W3C http://www.w3.org/People/Connolly/
Hmmm... I think we ought to be wary about conflating schemas and
ontologies. They are, I think, related but different ideas. Let's see if
I can say why...
According to John Sowa ["Knowledge Representation", appendix B], an
ontology is:
a catalogue of the types of things that are assumed to exist in a domain of
interest [[D]] from the perspective of a person who uses a language [[L]]
for talking about [[D]].
By contrast, I'd say that a schema is a catalogue of terms in some
language, together with descriptions of how they can or should be used.
The first difference that appears to me is that
- an ontology is focused on the domain of discourse (semantics), even if
with reference to a particular language, where
- a schema is focused on the language (syntax).
Further, it seems to me that a schema describes a vocabulary, only some
terms of which may relate to ontological categories.
In summary, I think we should restrict our discussions to the term
"schema", as used to describe the vocabulary of RDF. Other groups may have
a proper desire or need to use the term "ontology" to talk or reason about
categories in their domain of discourse, using RDF language and schema as a
vehicle for expressing some of those ideas.
#g
[More...]
John Sowa's Knowledge Representation Appendix B goes on to discuss
languages like CGs and KIF as ontologically neutral, and then to discuss
informal and formal ontologies, and in particular axiomatized ontologies.
Against that background, I think that RDF schemas are language tools that
is/will be used and augmented by DAML/OWL to describe axiomatized ontologies.
I think that the when a schema is described as an ontology, it would be
more correct to call it a description of an ontology. This seems to be one
of those conveniences of expression that is all very well as long as the
underlying distinctions are understood.
Graham Klyne
.....and what are those, exactly? I have never known what this term
is supposed to mean. Do you mean an RDF graph containing RDFS
vocabulary?
Right, and let's not.
Both terms have weeds attached that cause confusion. Maybe we should
use a new term altogether so that *we* can say what it means.,
something bland like 'module'. (??) Or what wrong with just talking
about RDF graphs?
Pat
IHMC(850)434 8903 home
40 South Alcaniz St.(850)202 4416 office
phayes@ai.uwf.edu
I've just taken a quick look at the 29-Apr version of the schema draft, and
I think it's more than adequate to go out as a working draft.
I'll be making more detailed comments, but they'll almost certainly miss
the publication deadline.
So my recommendation is: go publish!
#g
Graham Klyne
Thanks.
I'm tidying up some loose ends this morning. One thing that might be of
interest is an image I'm adding to the Examples section. There isn't time
to do a full worked example in this version, but the image does set the
scene for the rest of the document and for a worked example / test case
that can run throughout the document.
The yellow colour in the diagram corresponds roughly to the world of RDF
application data; the remainder of the diagram shows the interplay of RDF
Schema vocab and application-specific schemas.
If someone could check that it prints ok I'd be grateful...
Dan
What's wrong with the term "RDF Schema", and, if its definition is not
precise enough, creating a precise-enough definition? I repeat what I
sent to DanBri on this subject:
The relationship
between RDF Schema and XML Schema may need to be clarified; but I hope
that's not because both use the term "schema". "RDF Schema" is fine!
Keep in mind that the Web community is not the only relevant community
here. The database community in particular is quite used to the idea of
a "schema" as precisely the sort of thing being described here (and was
using the terminology first). Both RDF and XML schemas are variants of
this same theme. We can't possibly invent new terms each time we find
some kind of terminology clash (or similarity) when different
communities come together. We're supposed to be supporting the Semantic
Web, for heaven's sake! If people can't figure out how to distinguish
"RDF Schema", "XML Schema", and "database schema", they're in the wrong
business.
If people are going to have trouble telling an "RDF schema" from an "XML
schema", imagine that "RDF" and "XML" are namespace prefixes, and spell
them RDF:schema and XML:schema respectively. If people can't keep them
straight then, we need to go back to the XML namespace folks and tell
them it'll never work. If the problem is with the definition of "RDF
Schema", how does changing the name help? (Let's call them "RDF
frogs"...oops! "frog" is in use already, and someone might think an RDF
frog had a sticky tongue...)
--Frank
Frank Manola The MITRE Corporation
202 Burlington Road, MS A345 Bedford, MA 01730-1420
the problem with 'schema' used as a noun is that there are lots of
rdf docs that use RDF schema vocab in various ways, and only some of them
(intuitively) feel like things we might label 'schema'. Pinning down
criteeria for which docs 'are schemas' and which 'merely use RDFS vocab'
is pretty slippery. Not that we couldn't do it, just that we haven't yet,
and it's non-trivial. We might try defining 'namespace' while we're at
it. The XML folk didn't have much luck with that, though...
dan
Yes, but I thought we were talking about the name of a language, not an
instance of its use. The original document talked about "RDF Schema".
That wasn't referring to a set of declarations, it was referring to a
language; more completely, something like "The RDF Schema Definition
Language". You yourself just used the term "RDF schema vocab[ulary]".
Is there something wrong with that?
--Frank
Frank Manola The MITRE Corporation
202 Burlington Road, MS A345 Bedford, MA 01730-1420
