Summary: reject (out of charter)
The comment raised in
in the depths of section 4.4
We note with admiration the excellent tutorial introduction to the
striped syntax in Section 2
[36]http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-syntax-grammar/#section-Syntax]. We are
less happy with the nature of the syntax, and with the approach taken
to its normative statement
[37]http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-syntax-grammar/#section-Infoset-Grammar]
As regards the syntax itself, we would much prefer to have seen a move
to a single canonical syntax with much less variablity. With respect,
the current design suggests that the value of XML has been
misunderstood. The range of alternative forms of expression provided
for in the current design make it very difficult to use the broad
range of generic XML tools (e.g. syntax-directed editors, XSLT) which
could give so much benefit to RDF users. (More on this below.) At the
very least we would encourage you to specify a single canonical form,
probably strictly striped, which could be defined by an XML Schema or
DTD. We would be happy to work with you to develop a schema for such a
subset.
which is pretty much all commentary and one thing, the issue:
At the very least we would encourage you to specify a single
canonical form, probably strictly striped, which could be defined
by an XML Schema or DTD.
Here is a draft response:
The RDF Core WG has considered your last call comment captured in
(raised in section
"4.4. Normative specification of XML grammar (policy, substantive)" of
and decided
URL-HERE
to reject it.
A canonical syntax for RDF/XML - a syntax format that matched the RDF
abstract syntax one-to-one - was something that the RDF Core WG
considered. However it was already known that RDF/XML could not
express all RDF graphs:
(this has got better with the addition of the rdf:nodeID construct)
and was unconstrained in the choice of XML qnames when it was
designed in 1999.
This means RDF/XML isn't very suitable for defining with an XML
schema language such as W3C XML Schema or DTDs. This would have
meant inventing a new XML format, which was out of RDF Core's
charter:
[[The RDF Core WG is neither chartered to develop a new RDF syntax, ...]]
-- http://www.w3.org/2001/sw/RDFCoreWGCharter
For testing purposes, RDF Core did design a small and complete
non-XML format called N-Triples which has proved very useful in
precisely writing down test cases from WG decisions but isn't
suitable as an end-user canonical syntax.
We appreciate the XML Schema WG's offer for help with design of new
XML syntaxes.
Dave
Dave,
a few wordsmithing suggestions along the lines you suggest.
postpone (technically infeasible within charter)
Suggest:
A canonical subset of RDF/XML was considered by the RDF Core WG. However
the WG believes that due to the way mixed namespaces are used in RDF/XML
it is not possible to define such a subset that:
a) can represent all the RDF graphs that RDF/XML can represent
b) can be described by an DTD or by XML Schema.
An alternative would be to define a new syntax that is describable with a
DTD or an XML Schema but doing so is beyond the scope of RDFCore's current
charter. We note that the XHTML WG have expressed interest in working on
such a syntax and have been encouraged to do so by RDFCore. RDFCore also
welcomes XML Schema's offer to help with this work.
We have added this issue to the RDFCore postponed issues list.
URL here
Brian McBride said:
OK with me. I'ved edit it lightly into a new proposal without the
email bits and pieces.
How could you give the 2nd URL-HERE below of the postponed
issue before sending this response? It would be
Dave
Summary: postpone (technically infeasible within charter)
Draft response:
The RDF Core WG has considered your last call comment captured in
(raised in section
"4.4. Normative specification of XML grammar (policy, substantive)" of
and decided
URL-HERE
to postpone it.
A canonical subset of RDF/XML was considered by the RDF Core WG.
However the WG believes that due to the way mixed namespaces are used
in RDF/XML it is not possible to define such a subset that:
a) can represent all the RDF graphs that RDF/XML can represent
b) can be described by an DTD or an XML Schema.
An alternative would be to define a new syntax that is describable
with a DTD or an XML Schema but doing so is beyond the scope of RDF
Core's current charter. We note that the XHTML WG have expressed
interest in working on such a syntax and have been encouraged to do
so by RDF Core. RDF Core also welcomes XML Schema's offer to help
with this work.
We have added this issue to the RDFCore postponed issues list.
URL-HERE
Brian McBride said:
We could agree at the telecon to add such an issue, perhaps
...#dtd-friendly-syntax
Brian
