hi all,
I'm michele costantini, editor at Praxa.it, a newsportal for italian
entrepreneurs about ebusiness and the internet.
I'd like to write an article about the annotea project but it's not easy at
all to say right things about it. can someone help me?
-is the LEAD stage an advanced stage in the standard development process?
-I'm particularly interested in the remote annotation and less in the local:
1. who will be able to annotate the web page of my business site?
2. who will be able of reading the annotations about my business
site?
3. what kind of saveguard dou you foresight about the trustfullness
of the annotations user do about a company site?
4. when you think that the commercial browser adopt the standard and
add the annotation-features?
-what other application sof the feature do you can suggest?
any other information that can help me to understand.
Many thanks to all,
Michele Costantini
Redazione PRAXA
Hi
I can't answer all your questions about Annotea, but just wanted to note...
...that basic "3rd party annotation" facilities are already deployed in
commercial browsers. Netscape launched their "What's Related" service (an
early RDF application) a couple of years ago. It requests very simple
annotations from their server; the annotation format basically just says
"here are some pages that may be on a related topic". I believe they use
the Alexa database (http://www.alexa.com/) and that Internet Explorer has
a similar facility.
Netscape have some pages up about their "What's Related" or "Smart
Browsing" service, see:
The interesting thing with developments like Annotea is that by proposing
a common cross-browser vocabulary to support annotation services, we see the
prospect of a marketplace for third-party annotations. The Netscape page
hints at this, showing someone looking at the Ford car site, and then
navigating to 3rd-party reviews of a car, other places to buy that model
etc.
Dan
Hi Michele!
Here are some answers.
LEAD (Live and Early ADoption) means that it is early development that we
are testing ourselves in our own work and with other early adopters.
The focus of Annotea is to help collaboration by letting a group of
collaborating users to share their comments on the Web on their own
annotation server. They can store annotations of any web page, also your
business site. Often the audience of these servers is limited to a certain
group, but it is also possible to offer public servers for anybody. It is
easy for a user to turn the subscription of each annotation server on or
off, so what servers the user wants to subscribe to depends on the quality
of the content on the servers from his/her viewpoint.
See earlier. The user who is subscribing to the same annotation server
where these annotations are can read them. E.g. the user may get different
annotations or no annotations at all depending on what servers he or she is
subscribing to and wheather he/she has turned the annotations on when
reading the page.
It depends on the quality of the content on the server. The user may trust
certain annotation servers more as he/she knows the people. Public servers
for anybody are probably the least trusted.
I have not heard any announcements yet, but I hope they will in the long
run as shared annotations will help the users to collaborate easier and
that is a very important goal on the Web. To be successful is it very
important that users are given enough control in selecting the servers they
are interested in, turning the annotations on/off, starting their own
servers etc.
There is more info at http:www.w3.org/2001/Annotea
marja
