There is a new article on the Making Connections Unit website:
What is an accessible website? Attempting a definition.
It is an attempt to find a way of thinking about accessible web design that
addresses the needs of website producers, not just consumers.
If you have never read any of the articles on the Making Connections Unit
website before, this is the one to start with; I think it attempts to
address some important issues. I expect there will be people who don't agree
with the conclusions, or the approach taken to get to those conclusions - if
so, but don't keep your thoughts to yourself, add your comments to the page
or to the discussion forum. Or get in touch with me directly.
All the best,
Jim
Jim Byrne Project Director, The Making Connections Unit, Glasgow Caledonian
University, Glasgow G4 OBA, 0141 331 3893
Everything you need to know about publishing accessible information on the
Web.
Services: Website Accessibility Audits, Accessible Web design, Accessible
Website Management Training.
The Making Connections Unit: http://www.mcu.org.uk/
Scottish Disability Information Mailing list:
Hi Jim
Would the concise definition of an accessible website be just that - it
is accessible?
I'm not sure if I would separate a disabled person from the general
person as you seem to imply with your initial bullets on "What is an
accessible website?". Surely everyone means everyone regardless of their
physical or metal condition.
I would agree that given the state of current technology it would be a
massive undertaking to translate your content into X languages. But
wouldn't it be great if you could?! Your market reach would have no
bounds. Consider that technology will catch up and develop your projects
with that in mind.
I've never considered writing style to be strongly connected to
accessibility. Ok in the most part things should be kept simple but
writing style is an expression of individuality. As long as whatever is
written is accessible then that is what matters (and I'll stop myself
there before I digress).
Keeping up-to-date versions of a site (at its most basic : graphics and
text only) is not be a problem if you consider that structure and
content *should* be separated.
Given the current technology available it is difficult to make content
accessible to everyone. But we should do all that's possible to ensure
our projects are developed with the future in mind - look at the web 10
yrs ago who'd of guessed we'd be where we are now!
Separate structure and content, keep reading WAI IG and your half way
there.
Kind regards
Mike Palmer
www.absoluteinternet.com
PS : all the above is IMHO :)
Hi Mike,
What the article tries to do is find a definition that gives a 'framework
for thinking' that leads to practical strategies for those building sites.
Your definition doesn't really tell me how I should go about building an
accessible site.
I can't add to what is said in the article - it addresses your point
directly. Near the end of the article there is the following paragraph,
"With this definition our first thought is not to separate disabled people
out as a special group to be catered for; there will be disabled people and
non-disabled people in our intended audience. They will all be using a web
browser of some sort and we will have done all we can to ensure our
documents are accessible to those web browsers. No input or output device is
more 'normal' than any other input or output device; you may be using a
mouse and a monitor, someone else will be using a keyboard and a set of
headphones. And if we are doing our jobs right as web designers, it won't
make any difference - they will all still get the content."
The point is that trying to make a site accessible to everyone is not a good
idea in principle. It would be no more great than making all television
programs aimed at adults accessible to children, or all television programs
aimed at children accessible to adults. Not all content is appropriate to
all audiences.
As, I think it was Adam Smith, said, 'the problem with the long term, is
that in the long term we are all dead'. We need to address todays concerns
today.
Excuse my directness - thanks for your thoughts.
All the best,
Jim
Jim Byrne Project Director, The Making Connections Unit, Glasgow Caledonian
University, Glasgow G4 OBA, 0141 331 3893
Everything you need to know about publishing accessible information on the
Web.
Services: Website Accessibility Audits, Accessible Web design, Accessible
Website Management Training.
The Making Connections Unit: http://www.mcu.org.uk/
Scottish Disability Information Mailing list:
