Thanks Alan,
I am sharing these with the EOWG list since we said we'd be rolling this
into our comments; I think that was your intention?
- Judy
Judy, Here are my comments.
Alan
Alan Cantor
Cantor + Associates
Workplace Accommodation Consultants
acantor@interlog.com
www.interlog.com/~acantor
Comments on User Agent Accessibility Guidelines 1.0
W3C Working Draft 5-November-1999
5.8 Follow operating system conventions and accessibility settings. In
particular, follow conventions for user interface design, default keyboard
configuration, product installation, and documentation. [Priority 2]
This should be Priority 1. I have conducted accessibility audits of many
software packages that break conventions for user interface design. Almost
always, non-standard interfaces create accessibility nightmares. A product
with non-standard keyboard mappings may be in some sense ?accessible,? but
it will probably be so unusable that it is, in effect, inaccessible. The
ability to install ? or reinstall ? software is vital. A product that cannot
be independently installed is not accessible: if you can?t install it, use
can?t use it. Similarly, a user who cannot get at documentation may not be
able to use it at all.
10.3 Allow the user to change and control the input configuration. Users
should be able to activate a functionality with a single-stroke (e.g.,
single-key, single voice command, etc.). [Priority 2]
This is not clear. The second is really a subset of the first, but I suggest
presenting them as two points:
1.The user should be able to customize the means by which control and input
are accomplished. This should be Priority 1. I have seen lots of software
rendered inaccessible because important features are not readily available.
It is common to find important accessibility features poorly documented or
undocumented.
2.The user should be able to activate any feature with a single keystroke,
button press, or voice command. This is Priority 2.
10.8 Allow the user to configure the graphical arrangement of user interface
controls. [Priority 3]
This should be Priority 2. In accommodating people with learning and
cognitive disabilities, the ability to rearrange the interface is sometimes
key ? the strategy that renders the interface accessible and not.
Judy Brewer jbrewer@w3.org +1.617.258.9741 http://www.w3.org/WAI
Director, Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI) International Program Office
World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)
MIT/LCS Room NE43-355, 545 Technology Square, Cambridge, MA, 02139, USA
Thanks Alan,
I am sharing these with the EOWG list since we said we'd be rolling this
into our comments; I think that was your intention?
- Judy
Yes, it was.
Two other points:
There should be clearer reference for the need for logical tab order
(generally top to bottom, left to right) when navigating through a user
agent screen by keyboard.
How about something about ensuring that focus indicator is visible AND
conspicuous at all times? The lack of conspicuous focus indicator is a big
barrier for people who are sighted and who rely on keyboard-only access. If
the operating system does not provide it, then the user agent should. (Two
examples of exemplary focus indicators: Opera highlights the hypertext links
in focus. The default keyboard shortcut in Windows 95/98/NT for task
switching is Alt + Tab. This pops a window showing tasks, the one with focus
surrounded by a well-defined blue box.
Alan
aloha, alan!
quote
How about something about ensuring that focus indicator is visible AND
conspicuous at all times? The lack of conspicuous focus indicator is a big
barrier for people who are sighted and who rely on keyboard-only access. If
the operating system does not provide it, then the user agent should. (Two
examples of exemplary focus indicators: Opera highlights the hypertext links
in focus. The default keyboard shortcut in Windows 95/98/NT for task
switching is Alt + Tab. This pops a window showing tasks, the one with focus
surrounded by a well-defined blue box.
unquote
one of the things i asked for at the last User Agent Face2Face meeting was an
impact matrix for W3C markup languages, showing user agent manufacturers how
much could be gained by simply implementing all of HTML4, all of CSS2, and so
on, so as to illustrate to UA developers just how many of the features and
functionalities for which we are asking could be satisfied simply by
implementing existing specifications that have already undergone extensive
accessibility reviews...
your concern is something that could easily be rectified by full support for
stylesheets, although i'd like to see UA manufacturers that operate in a
graphical environment develop some sort of Wizard interface that a user (who
knows nothing about CSS) could use to build and tailor a stylesheet that is
appropriate for his or her needs, rather than on a decision made by an
individual or small team of developers and applied in a cookie-cutter
one-size-fits-all manner...
the decision on how best to highlight hyperlink text is best left to the user,
which is why i champion the "add full support for CSS1 and CSS2 and you can
satisfy the lion's share of checkpoints in the UAGL" point-of-view...
gregory
He that lives on Hope, dies farting
-- Benjamin Franklin, Poor Richard's Almanack, 1763
Gregory J. Rosmaita unagi69@concentric.net
WebMaster and Minister of Propaganda, VICUG NYC
