A funny thing happened on my way to the Website. I decided to put in some
graphics because Jonathan thought it might help and others said it would
look better. I always thought that was just short of nonsensical. So I put
in some (supposedly appropriate) icon-like graphics and *ta-da* it not only
looked different, it sort of looked better. Then I thought they'd probably
be more useful if they were links. So I made them go places.
Now the "Guideline Guide" has over 20 links. Although many of them are to
the WCAG 1.0 and other WAI documents, several are to outside sources I've
found useful in this area. I could use lots more - it's kind of nice to
have resources pre-located and all in one place IMHO. I'd like some
feedback from some on the lists who try the site at
"concordance" for WCAG.
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
Fantastic.
I think one thing is missing and that is an short introduction that will
make the Guide to Guidelines make sence the first time around. - IE. Not
everyone is using the same input, output madiums, peaple can have touble
navigating, not everyone will be seeing the format, so confay stucture
information though markup.
Alteritvly, an explnitory sentece by each principal, would serve the same
end. Otherise peaple can be left asking "why"
LS:: "I think one thing is missing and that is an short introduction"
WL: I suffer from the delusion that it is better to assume that the factor
of exploring on one's own in Carlsbad Caverns is far superior to having a
tour guide saying "and over on the right we have icicle-looking formations
known as 'stalactites'. You will notice..." In many cases this overbearing
stating of the obvious is itself as offputting as it is illuminating.
Whoever got there did after all get there. "You are here" is mandatory on a
map in a mall but a telephone with the word "telephone" on it is to laugh
at. IMO the place for the introduction to this "facility" is at most in the
header - otherwise it should be in whatever sent one here.
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
Looks Good William,
I like your choice of graphics. I would add a space between the graphics and
the text, to me it looks a little crowded. I like the additional commentary
provided by the alt text. But, I could not tell from the alt text where the
link would take me; when I looked at the status line, the url clued me in.
Maybe commentary, with link destination information. On the animation with
the arrow road sign the alt says "this way to the guidelines" but the link
takes you to the checklist.
Jim Allan, Statewide Technical Support Specialist
Texas School for the Blind and Visually Impaired
1100 W. 45th St., Austin, Texas 78756
"Be BOLD and mighty forces will come to your aid." Basil King
Behalf Of William Loughborough
A funny thing happened on my way to the Website. I decided to put in some
graphics because Jonathan thought it might help and others said it would
look better. I always thought that was just short of nonsensical. So I put
in some (supposedly appropriate) icon-like graphics and *ta-da* it not only
looked different, it sort of looked better. Then I thought they'd probably
be more useful if they were links. So I made them go places.
Now the "Guideline Guide" has over 20 links. Although many of them are to
the WCAG 1.0 and other WAI documents, several are to outside sources I've
found useful in this area. I could use lots more - it's kind of nice to
have resources pre-located and all in one place IMHO. I'd like some
feedback from some on the lists who try the site at
"concordance" for WCAG.
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
I haven't commented too much on William's work in this area.
Not because I think it's unworthy, but because I think this _is_
a role better suited for third-party "interpreters" (which includes
the WAI Education and Outreach group).
This does not mean that I think outside groups must be _relied_
on in order to "translate" our work; in fact, I think the very
opposite, that we need to make our *primary output* -- which I
see as being the WCAG document(s) -- understandable by everyone.
This doesn't mean that there's not room for additional documents
that explain this or that they're not of great value; while they
-are- of great value, I am personally more interested in working
on the WCAG first and foremost to make it a usable document.
I see the "Everyman's Guide to the WCAG" as being a great project,
but one for either another group or for this group when we're
done with our first and most important project.
(There may be some ways in which William's work here can be
folded back into the WCAG development stream, and I would like
to see that area of investigation pursued.)
Kynn Bartlett kynn@idyllmtn.com http://kynn.com/
Director of Accessibility, Edapta http://www.edapta.com/
Chief Technologist, Idyll Mountain Internet http://www.idyllmtn.com/
AWARE Center Director http://www.awarecenter.org/
LL:: [referencing http://rdf.pair.com/guide.htm ] ...the animated graphics
are a bad idea from a pure human factors perspective - they
are irritating and draw attention away from the information on the page
(it's hard for people to keep their attention from being drawn to something
moving).
WL: About my only "excuse" (rationalization?) for using the animated icons
is to illustrate by example that their inclusion: a) doesn't break the
guidelines; b) that the guidelines don't preclude use of absurd gimmicks.
Your point about their attracting attention is probably valid but I've
chosen to take that risk because of some (misplaced, fanciful?) notion of
subliminal communication.
The height of the backgrounds for the H2's being forced by the icon
inclusions is something I'll address. What is of more interest to me at
this time is the content and how well this "guide" could be used by someone
to actually gain some understanding of and friendship with the guidelines.
I hope to make the overall WCAG document less daunting, principally by
presenting bits of it in lieu of its overwhelming entirety.
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
I incorporated these suggestions although the alt may seem cryptic but it
now gives better destination clues.
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
Myself, I liked very much William's site that included graphics. The result
is a much more inviting presentation. The criticism of the animated
graphics as a "bad idea" is misplaced. The first time I viewed the page, I
didn't even notice there was animation until I had gone through the whole
page and returned to the top to look it over a second time noting the
details including the animation. Not all people, and not even all "visual"
people, are "distracted" by animation. Motion is a part of life. Compared
to the original, all text, no color, no graphics presentation, this version
is very inviting and gives the impression that accessibility is do-able
without throwing away the baby with the bath water.
Anne
Anne L. Pemberton
apembert@crosslink.net
Enabling Support Foundation
However, this illustrates a fundamental problem with the animation
itself -- if it _doesn't_ stand out, and if it _can't_ be noticed
as animated, then it's not a good design element. The purpose of
using animation, on the web, is to _make something stand out_. If
an animation fails to do this, then it's clearly gratuitous!
--Kynn, pretending he's a web designer
Kynn Bartlett kynn@idyllmtn.com http://kynn.com/
Director of Accessibility, Edapta http://www.edapta.com/
Chief Technologist, Idyll Mountain Internet http://www.idyllmtn.com/
AWARE Center Director http://www.awarecenter.org/
I would like to take up this point too, if I may. I had already, in
an email, expressed general pleasure with William's article (while
raising a few technical details which he has now addressed).
One recurring theme of my interactions with other web authors is their
apparent deeply-held belief that by asking for accessibility, we want
to forbid them to include colour, movement or any other kind of media,
and boil everything down to black text-only on a mid-grey background.
I really have no idea where this silly belief comes from, but my
observation is that it is amazingly widespread, and deeply ingrained.
What I feel is desperately needed, alongside the entirely competent
and necessary - but somewhat "academic" guidelines from the group, are
some really convincing demonstrations[1] of pages which have
widespread appeal to the mass audience - while at the same time being
very accessible to all kinds of unusual browsing situations.
Otherwise we are continually "up against" this argument that
accessible design is absolutely unusuable in a mass/commercial
environment, and can only be considered when pages are authored for a
specialised audience or community. The exact opposite of what I'm
hoping to see.
[Anne writes...]
Exactly!
Those in our audience who are, for example, distressed by unexpected
motion on a web page have every right to get client software that
blocks it, or otherwise processes it to meet their requirements. The
key feature of the WWW, to my way of thinking, is that it enables us
to offer content in a form that can gracefully adapt itself to each
reader's needs and requirements. But this is not done solely by the
author creating content to fit every possible circumstance: the web is
a co-production, based on the concept of many different client/browser
situations "rendering" the content in a form that's suitable for each
reader.
It's little short of maddening that, looking around the web, we see
such tremendous effort currently being put into factoring-out this
flexibility, in a stubborn belief that the sole purpose of design is
to ensure that everyone will literally _see_ exactly the same view -
or else (it seems these authors believe) it would be better that they
get nothing at all. After all that effort having been put in to
defeat the inherent flexibility of the web, those authors then have
the gall to inform us that they "cannot afford" the effort to write a
few ALT attributes for their images, and so on.
The whole message of the web to me was that we are freed from the
inflexibility of such paper-based thinking, and can use any available
additional effort not for factoring-out the flexibility, but for
factoring-in additional options.
[1] I only wish I could produce some convincing examples myself; but
although I feel I can recognize what I'm looking for when I see it,
I have to admit that - coming from an academic and verbal background
myself, and having no particular graphical design skills - I'm not
the person to do this, and some of my ham-fisted attempts may have
done more harm than good. Some readers might be familiar with the
"Top 3 HTML Straw Man Arguments" at
which looks at some of the same issues, but again with a predominatly
verbal approach.
Best regards
I think it's perpetuated by the old "text only pages" which were
presented as "how to make web pages accessible."
For more on myths related to web accessibility, see:
--Kynn
Kynn Bartlett kynn@idyllmtn.com http://kynn.com/
Director of Accessibility, Edapta http://www.edapta.com/
Chief Technologist, Idyll Mountain Internet http://www.idyllmtn.com/
AWARE Center Director http://www.awarecenter.org/
But unfortunately, the supplementary page of reasons submitted by
other readers then goes and perpetuates the old myth of accessible web
pages being text-based and excluding other media. Your page doesn't
choose to comment on that paradox, but, with your page itself being
essentially text-based, an uncommitted reader might jump to the
conclusion that that _was_ also the unstated agenda; which I think
would be a pity, and counterproductive to the overall goal. I hope
you don't mind me expressing that opinion so frankly: it's only
meant to provoke an appropriate discussion, and not at all meant to
detract from the excellent material at your site.
Actually, that's a good point, and this is the kind of feedback that's
helpful to me, especially as the AWARE Center will be getting a full
overhaul soon. :) Thanks!
--Kynn
Kynn Bartlett kynn@idyllmtn.com http://kynn.com/
Director of Accessibility, Edapta http://www.edapta.com/
Chief Technologist, Idyll Mountain Internet http://www.idyllmtn.com/
AWARE Center Director http://www.awarecenter.org/
Yes: but where did THAT idea come from? I've never seen the point of
it myself. Oftentimes when someone promotes that as a "solution" to
web accessibility, and I have the chance to ask them a few questions,
it becomes clear that they have never used a text-mode browser
themselves, and haven't the slightest idea how such a browser would
behave. So, just where this idea of a need for text-only pages
originally comes from, still seems a mystery to me. But it does seem
to be very deeply ingrained, and I think it would be useful to make
more efforts to dispel it, which was one reason behind my positive
reaction to William's nice page.
Well, I'm sorry, this is probably the wrong forum to pursue that
topic, but I did want at least to make the point.
Yes indeed: that redirects me to a page which I'm already citing
from my older "text-friendly authoring techniques" area; but I've just
added another link to it from the "straw man arguments page" that I
mentioned before.
Your "Selfish reasons for accessibility" page is good, too.
But unfortunately, the supplementary page of reasons submitted by
other readers then goes and perpetuates the old myth of accessible web
pages being text-based and excluding other media. Your page doesn't
choose to comment on that paradox, but, with your page itself being
essentially text-based, an uncommitted reader might jump to the
conclusion that that _was_ also the unstated agenda; which I think
would be a pity, and counterproductive to the overall goal. I hope
you don't mind me expressing that opinion so frankly: it's only
meant to provoke an appropriate discussion, and not at all meant to
detract from the excellent material at your site.
all the best
Kynn,
Kynn, this is like saying that music that doesn't rock the pictures
on the wall isn't music ....
On Tue, 12 Sep 2000 13:08:43 -0700
There are times when you want an design element to blast out at the
user, but there are times when you want it to be subtle, noticed only
in the review of details ... William achieved this by embedding the
animations in a stationary bar that diminished the "flash" of the
animations so they didn't blast at you, but were there when you looked
back for details ...
Kynn, sublety is NEVER bad design ...
Anne Pemberton
