I am trying to use properly nested H1, H2, tags for
accessibility and indexing reasons. The problem I keep
running into is that I would like to avoid a blank line
below the heading. In the past I have avoided these tags for
just this reason.
I have tried everything I could think of to get rid of that
blank line, but to no avail. Anyone know a way to get around
it?
I have the same problem with P tags. I've been using DIV
with BR tags to avoid P tags because I don't want the spaces
above and below. I am trying to achieve a look in which the
first paragraph has a drop cap and no indent, and subsequent
paragraphs have a first line indent, the way it is normally
done in print. The "block" format gets old.
I know that CSS CAN do it, but is there anyway to make it
work in the current browsers that "support" CSS?
Any help would be appreciated.
Charles Munat
Puerto Vallarta, Mexico
Hi Charles,
You can get the indents... but it's not considered "good" html code.
Here are two different ways:
1. starting a paragraph with DD
2. starting the paragraph with a bunch of &amp;nbsp;'s ... so you can do
&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;This is my second paragraph.
Of course, the third option is to try the "single-pixel" gif trick....
but, that's not good design either!
Pawan...
Pawan R. Vora
U S WEST Communications
pvora@uswest.com
303-624-4235
I am always amused by the notion of trying to emulate a print document in
html. Usually the results are quite sad. Since we are talking about a
regular WAI contributor I will not be so quick to judgement!
What are you doing for the drop caps? Monochrome GIFs of the letter with
the letter as ALT text?
I will confess that I was quite happy when I first came across a site that
ended sentences with period-non-breaking-space-space. Finally, a legal
technique for getting that extra space the way my typing instructor taught
me! (I was, of course, hit with that "Duh -- why didn't I think of that"
feeling.)
I instantly found my pages much more readable. Can double-space between
sentences (but not after abbreviations) be accomplished by CSS? Are any
browsers (or word processor for that matter) smart enough to make this
distinction?
Hi all,
Very soon, the Web Standards Project will be posting "Bug Drive 5.0." This
is the Web developer community's way of telling Microsoft what standards
are not implemented in IE5 and currently are not working in the beta. I
have a list of Accessibility tags not implemented in IE4 that I need help
checking in IE5 but don't exactally know what they're supposed to do.
Can you help?
Please contact me ASAP so we can make sure IE5 doesn't miss any
accessibility features.
Thanks.
B.K. DeLong 360 Huntington Ave.
Director Suite 140CSC-305
New England Chapter Boston, MA 02115
World Organization (617) 247-3753
of Webmasters
bkdelong@naw.org
FrontPage 98 (make sure you have the update patch installed) allows for the
double spaces between sentences. HoTMetaL 4.0 does not. The only problem
I've encountered with this technique is the old AOL proprietary browser (2.0
maybe) didn't recognize &amp;nbsp; and showed it as such in the document.
However, it is important enough to me attempt to use proper English that I
use the technique anyway. For the few users using the old AOL browser they
just end up with a little bit garbage. The word to HTML conversion utility
doesn't seem to save the double spaces nor does pasting from the clipboard
to FrontPage98. I don't know about the use of CSS to achieve this. Our user
base doesn't have full enough support for CSS to justify its use yet so I
haven't studied it.
-Jamie
Of Bruce Bailey
[snip]
I will confess that I was quite happy when I first came across a site that
ended sentences with period-non-breaking-space-space. Finally, a legal
technique for getting that extra space the way my typing instructor taught
me! (I was, of course, hit with that "Duh -- why didn't I think of that"
feeling.)
I instantly found my pages much more readable. Can double-space between
sentences (but not after abbreviations) be accomplished by CSS? Are any
browsers (or word processor for that matter) smart enough to make this
distinction?
-----Original Message-----
[Jamie Fox]
From a design point of view, HTML documents are more like typeset
documents than like typewritten ones. In typesetting, one usually
leaves only one space at the end of a sentence; the two spaces in
typing are to compensate for the weird look of monospaced type.
TeX applies an algorithm for finding the end of sentences, and
slightly increases the spaces there, but not to a full double space.
I'd recommend avoiding fooling with hard spaces and let the browser do
its best job.
-Chris
!ENTITY crism PUBLIC "-//O'Reilly//NONSGML Christopher R. Maden//EN"
URL http://www.oreilly.com/people/staff/crism/ TEL +1.617.499.7487
I've been tinkering for the past few weeks with my personal web site.
The objective has been to explore a variety of issues, particularly
accessiblity and coincidentally style sheets and frames and tables.
As I've been reading the remarks of this group for a month or so, I've been
slowly coming to the conclusion that there is no single answer. What I've
done so far is at a rather simple level. But that's where I need to start.
I'm trying to find as broad an answer as possible.
I've neutered many of the links on the main menu because the pages behind
them won't contribute to my immediate quest. The "Carnival" and "About"
pages are working.
If you have time, I'd appreciate any remarks you might have about this. I'd
be especially interested to hear from anyone who's come up with a way to
create a "back" button that works across a wider spectrum. This charming
old trick doesn't seem to work very well.
Best Regards,
Joe Night
"I am always amused by the notion of trying to emulate a
print document in
html. Usually the results are quite sad.
"What are you doing for the drop caps? Monochrome GIFs of
the letter with
the letter as ALT text?"
Interesting that you should be amused by web pages that
emulate print documents, but you want to put two spaces
after periods. As someone else already mentioned, I think,
the added space is there to increase readability when using
monospaced typewriter fonts. When using a proportional font,
the extra space is not used. This reminds me of an English
professor I once had who insisted that papers be
typewritten, not printed with proportional fonts, because he
said the typewritten pages were easier to read. That would
have come as a shock to a great many experts on type.
I agree that emulation of print documents is not always
desirable and often impractical. But there are also times
when the traditional print format is appropriate. And it's
nice to have the option. Thus, for example, the inclusion of
drop caps in the CSS standard. An attempt, I believe, to get
happy results.
I don't often use drop caps, but when I do I've usually been
forced to use the image and alt text route, although not
always GIFs and not always monochrome.
Charles Munat
Puerto Vallarta
It was my own acknowledged print-oriented hypocrisy that made me bring up
spaces when I commented on your drop cap question!
I am debating the double-space after sentences with two other people off the
list (less we repeat the un-resolvable emoticon debate). The problem is
that most word processors and browsers are NOT smart enough to lengthen the
gap between sentences (vice the gap between words) which IS commonly done in
type setting.
The jury is ambivalent on this issues. Please reference URL:
I will offer this food for though up to the group: If I expect a
significant number of my visitors to be using Lynx (without a screen reader)
and thus a mono spaced font, should I not defer to a convention that helps
them a lot but hurts others very little?
Have you found a solution to this? I am having the same problem. I need to use Hn text for search engine indexing purposes, but I cannot get rid of the space that follows beneath the text. I have tried using stylesheets, but I am not yet adept at them.
Please tell me how to use headers and remove the following space.
Kind regards,
Eric Shashoua
eshashoua@miracleworkers.com
