SMIL Participants for Monday, July 27th from 11:00am to
12:00noon Eastern - Jim Allan, Jeff Freed
Agenda:
1. Introductions
2. Identification of Players
2.1 G2 from Real Media (http://www.real.com/g2/products/player/index.html)
2.2 GRiNS - (GRaphical iNterface for SMIL) player
(http://www.cwi.nl/SMIL/GRiNS/)
2.3 HPAS - Hypermedia Presentation and Authoring System
(http://www.research.digital.com/SRC/HPAS/) this is a JAVA based Player only
works in Netscape.
3. User Control Issues
3.1 Keyboard access to player controls
3.2 User control of element positioning
3.3 User control of FONT attributes (size, color, type, etc.)
3.4 ability to toggle the captions on and off
3.5 ability to toggle audio descriptions on and off
3.6 toggle the video on and off
3.7 toggle the audio on and off
4. Other Issues?
4.1 No support for HTML in G2 Player only real text - this is proprietary,
difficult to scale caption size. No facility for moving captions to a
different location.
4.2 Microsoft not supporting SMIL in Netshow
4.3 SAMI is designed for captioning, uses html as text, projected release
late in '98, may have simple authoring tool. New version of Netshow, may
have ability to slow presentation to half and quarter, caption slows also,
4.4 Internationalization - method of choosing language track or are there
separate files for languages
4.5 change rate of playback
5. Is there a need for another telecon?
The difficulty with developing UA guidelines for a SMIL player is there is
only one player (G2) to develop from. The group has listed some guidelines
see 3.
Jim Allan, Statewide Technical Support Specialist
Texas School for the Blind and Visually Impaired
1100 W. 45th St., Austin, Texas 78756
"We shape our tools and thereafter our tools shape us." McLuhan, 1964
to follow up on what James Allan said:
Where it says "uses HTML as text" one has to be careful. Some
SAMI drafts have been pretty free about re-inventing HTML. It
would be good if the "future of HTML" process or some activity
brings SAMI and the XML technology base closer together.
I have been hearing about something called ChromEffects (approx.) This
is more than a simple authoring tool.
Separate URI-references. If the tracks are in one file, the
format and player need to suport a URI to access it which carries
language or track parameters or #fragment designator to do the
selection of the sub-object within the file.
There are multiple players coming from the DAISY Consortium. I
don't understand this remark.
- Al
it seems that the captions are in some sort of graphical form? if this is
the case, then a deaf blind person has nothing to read.
my screenreader won't read them if they are in bitmapped marqui style
which I think they are. also, perhaps the audio description should be
text renderable as well?
lots for a braille reader to read, but then with presentation
adjustability and the ability to speed up, slow down, rewind, ff and
otherwise tinker and select components at will, it should work.
Hands-On-Technolog(eye)s
touching the internet
voice: 1-(301) 949-7599
poehlman@clark.net
ftp://ftp.clark.net/pub/poehlman
Dynamic solutions Inc.
Best of service for your Small Business network Needs
