Our kickoff teleconference for the evaluation and repair interest group
will be scheduled for Tuesday Oct 27, 4:00 PM Eastern Standard Time...
unless that is a problem for people who would like to attend.
Is this date a problem for anyone?
Len
Leonard R. Kasday
Institute on Disabilities/UAP at Temple University, Philadelphia PA
Hello everybody
until now I was only reading your msgs without commenting, but reading
with strong interest... I am a student and working on a "smart" text-only
filter already implementing many of the ideas from
Attached is a sample input page (index.html) to my tool, and what comes
out of it; text-index.html. Please notice how the graphical bullets created
by FrontPage on index.html get translated into UL/LI and how all the IMG are
converted, depending on size, ALT, link etc. Attached is my project report
incl. src as PDF for details. Sorry for attaching the PDF to this msg, I
know I should post it to my website and send you only the URL...
If the WAI-ER group is interested in using this tool as a basis for the
planned toolkit, I am open for discussion. A modulare table-linearizer etc.
as Daniel (or Leonard?) mentioned would fit in very well, one only needs to
change the HTMLTable::newTextOnly() method... (see report)
Below is some blurb (my opinion) about two questions that seemed to be in
discussion at some point: Separate/Alternative accesseible version of a
page, and Interactive vs. automated/batch transforms.
Talk to you tomorrow on the phone conference,
Michael
1) Separate/Alternative accessible version: I think realistically this is
the way the go, even though in theory it would be nicer to have just one
version, with different CSS etc. - but the web and webmasters are just not
at that point yet. -- I must admit that I don't really understand the
problem people seem to have with an alternative version: Provided that each
non-perfectly-accessible page contains LINK title="Text-only version"
rel="alternate" href="text_only.html" media="aural, braille, tty" to the
alternative accessible page, braille UAs and Lynx could just fetch that one
instead, transparently for the end-user!
2) Interactive vs. automated/batch transforms: I strongly defend fully
automated tools for TRANSFORMATION, maybe less so for Evaluation. "General
public webmasters" don't want to spend time looking at details, but they
might be willing to provide an accessible site if it can be done
automatically by a tool, with a simple click.
Michael Vorburger mike@vorburger.ch &amp; michael.vorburger@epfl.ch
WEBMASTERS, check out my personal Web Style Guide at:
It's not just "nicer" to have just one version, it's the only method
that scales for the Web.
but the web and webmasters are just not at that point yet.
Our job is to help them reach that point faster. You're giving up too
soon :-)
The issue is not the mechanism to find the alternate page, it's the
duplication process involved, which leads to
- more work for the author (which mean they are likely to drop this part)
- likely divergence/out-of-date pages in the alternate site
- more complex site management (mess of links from alternate pages going
to graphical pages and the other way around)
- each new media potentially needs a different alternate version
Making a page accessibly also involve more work for the author, of
course, but it doesn't carry the other problems and as a bonus, the
end-user ends up controling the presentation.
Text-only links are bad to the extent where they teach people that the
only way to make their site accessible is by doubling their number of
pages. But they are a viable solution for some people, so they are
addressed in the PA guidelines.
If it can be done automatically, why bother the author/webmaster, we
just need to integrate the tool in the user agent or in some user
proxy.
Hi Michael,
The index.html seems accessible to me. So why translate it into text-only
version.
To make two versions of a website, graphical and text-only, cost to much
time and money on maintanance.
So I think this is not the way to go.
Maybe you are right, they are willing to make their website accessible if
the only thing they have to do is ONE click, but this doesn't work in
practice. The major problem with accessibility of webpages at this moment
is NOT there are graphics, but there are no ALT tags include with these
graphics.
I think a tool that let webmasters interactively enter ALT tags has the
highest priority. If all graphics on the Internet has a good ALT tag and
image map were handled well, I think the Internet is more accessible and
there is no need for an alternative text-only version.
Regards Peter Verhoeven
Internet : http://www.plex.nl/~pverhoe (The Screen Magnifiers Homepage)
THIS one does, yes, at least kind of. Others less. If you look at index.html
in lynx, you will see [IMAGE] for the bullets etc. Other pages, for example
using frames, are not at all and a TextOnly (text-equiv) Filter could do
something about that and other things. Another idea I had recently, is
including a link to pdf2txt@adobe.com for PDF links. Or a warning before
binary links. -- Plus, TextOnly (text-equiv) page also loads faster, and
displays in EVERY browser, including hand-held small display thingies, not
just most recent 4.x. That's accessibility as well, isn't it?
If the tool is fully automatical, it does not cost any time. If the tool is
completely free, it does not cost any time. So I think this is the way to
go. :-)
Interesting point, please read next msg to the list where I suggest two
study projects.
Regards,
Michael
Michael Vorburger mike@vorburger.ch &amp; michael.vorburger@epfl.ch
QUOTE: "There is one thing stronger than all the armies of the world and
that is an idea whose time has come." (Victor Hugo)
HOMEPAGE: http://www.vorburger.ch
