might be a good geo faq as well. any takers?
More pertinent to this virus, should the Unicode Consortium issue a statement
or have a web page pointing out that Unicode does not need to be put in a
binary attachment, when mailed?
A short explanation would be helfpul to people with respect to recognizing the
virus.
It would be educational for the techies that could know more about Unicode then
they do.
It would help suppress the creation of myths around e-mailing Unicode.
I think some mags would pick it up.
And it would be nice if the end of the short faq said, and you can learn more
at the next Unicode Conference.
It would be, dare I say, viral marketing! ;-)
The short paragraph or two could also link off to a faq on how to set your
mailer to use unicode, for the most common mailers, and the benefits thereof.
Probably a web page on the virus and denying its premise would get lots of hits
and attention as people scurry around to learn how to remove it...
tex
Tex Texin cell: +1 781 789 1898 mailto:Tex@XenCraft.com
Xen Master http://www.i18nGuy.com
XenCraft http://www.XenCraft.com
Making e-Business Work Around the World
Well, yes, except that we are about the Web, and there are no
email viruses in Web pages (as far as I know, touch wood),
and there are no 7-bit limitations for Web pages.
Regards, Martin.
(I changed the subject)
html is often sent by mail. Misinformation about unicode is harmful to people
considering unicode for their web pages and undermines our credibility, since
we are proponents of using unicode everywhere on the web.
I wasn't trying to address viruses, just the misinformation that it spread.
However, that said, web pages certainly carry related security risks, if not
viruses.
Weren't there concerns with anchors being used to run exes? maybe also pngs
being executable.
(Hard to remember if those were myths or true, which I guess underscores my
point! ;-) )
Although, one might think the reason unicode was in a binary was due to a 7-bit
limitation of mail, most people would think the limitation was that mail wasn't
capable of transmitting 16-bit unicode.
The interpretations of the message I am concerned with, should be through the
eyes of a non-expert.
The experts dismissed the mail as probably false, quickly.
It seems providing more understanding about unicode (not viruses or email) is
something geo covers. But it is just a suggestion so if there are no takers,
its ok.
tex
Tex Texin cell: +1 781 789 1898 mailto:Tex@XenCraft.com
Xen Master http://www.i18nGuy.com
XenCraft http://www.XenCraft.com
Making e-Business Work Around the World
Yes, that was an issue a year or two ago. It would have made a good
FAQ, because it's indeed Web-related. It's probably a bit too late now.
It is true that mail can't transmit 16-bit unicode. But the spam in some
cases explicitly menioned UTF-8, and in others 7-bit. And that is indeed
an issue, although the solution to it is content transfer encoding rather
than zip.
Yes. But we should cover things that are really related to the Web,
not just everything related to Unicode.
Regards, Martin.
