Some topics covered in the new feature list would seem of particular
interest to this group. Haven't tried it yet, but I'm about to.
URL in the message below.
For those who don't follow these things I should probably say that Jaws is
one of the main screen reading software packages for blind users. I'm
including the non-Web new features as well because they give some idea of
what elements of speech output are configurable, customizable, etc.
Patrick
Here is the feature list:
New in JAWS with Internet Explorer
Expanded Help for Internet Explorer
Content Refreshing
Quick and Easy Navigation on Web Pages
Navigation Quick Keys in Say All
Non-Uniform Tables in HTML
HTML Tables in Braille
Move to Next or Prior HTML Element
Step Out of Element
Select Entire HTML Element with a Single Command
Moving to Non-Link Text
More Information on Format and Structure Bring the Web to Life
New in General
Support for Macromedia Flash MX
Control the Spelling Rate
Spell by Line
Spell Phonetically
New Options for Announcing Capitalization
New Table Navigation Commands
Easier Customization for MSAA Applications
New in Braille
Enhanced Focus Whiz Wheel Support
All New M20 and M40 Command Assignments
New in Popular Applications Support
Autotext in Word
All New Support for Winamp
All New Support for MSN Messenger
Updated Support for Eudora
Date: Thu, 08 Aug 2002 05:52:41 -0700
From: Kelly Ford kelly@kellford.com
Subject: [webwatch] Public Beta of JAWS 4.5
Hi All,
The folks at Freedom Scientific have released a public beta of JAWS
4.5. The updated version has several new features which are detailed at
http://www.freedomscientific.com/fs_products/software_jaws45newfea.asp .
Related to the web, JAWS 4.5 beta has support for Flash content, a new
quick key navigation mode for reading web pages, announcement of lists,
optional announcement of more format and style information on web pages,
improvements and bug fixes to JAWS table navigation on web pages and
several other enhancements. You'll also find a link to download the public
beta as well as report bugs at the above address.
Thanks,
Kelly
"You will need proper authorization to run this Public Beta and should
refer to the link on the prior page for the list of serial numbers to
locate and verify your number."
Am I reading this (above) wrong or is this "public" beta only available
to licensed customers?
Typically installing this without proper authorization will cause JAWS to
run as a demo copy. In that mode it will run for 40 minutes before it stops
running.
Kelly
Does anyone have or know of a good page that explains why "click here" is
bad linking practice? I have tried various forms of gentle persuasion to
suggest that "click here" is not good. I have mentioned that some browsers
can print a lovely table of urls and link text, at which point "click here"
is obviously useless.
It's a bad habit of some coworkers who don't want to think about link text
so they always use "click here". I need truly excellent reasons to show
them the light.
Lynn
Lynn Alford, Multimedia Services Tel (07) 47 81 5525
James Cook University QLD 4811 AUSTRALIA
On Fri, 09 Aug 2002 14:40:17 +1000
If the user is using a browser that lists the links on a page, e.g.
JAWS on one specific mode then all they are going to see/hear is "Click
Here", which tells them absolutely nothing about where the link will
take them.
Not everybody uses a mouse, they might be selecting links by a method
other then clicking.
David Dorward http://david.us-lot.org/
HTML email is a bit like using coloured paper and glitter ink on a CV.
It's just lazy writing, isn't it? It uses a stock phrase instead of
describing why a person should follow the link, or what will happen if they
do. Any good copy editor would veto it, at least on most worlds in this
star cluster.
But I give "click here" points for brevity over phrases like "activate this
hypertext anchor".
Patrick
amen to that.
It's just lazy writing, isn't it? It uses a stock phrase instead of
describing why a person should follow the link, or what will happen if they
do. Any good copy editor would veto it, at least on most worlds in this
star cluster.
But I give "click here" points for brevity over phrases like "activate this
hypertext anchor".
Patrick
