Hi, I was just wandering why we get so many junk mail to this list?
Is noone else anoid, or has everybody done something about this?
This is rediculous!
I guess I will be unsubscribing soon, if this does not improve.
Regards
Arsaell
arsaell@a.sol.no
I agree. There has to be something the list administrators can do about
the spam. I haven't even been able to delete one of the messages from
this weekend for some reason. If enough of us "complain" about the junk
to the senders, maybe we can flood their mailboxes and "discourage"
further messages. They usually provide a separate email address where
they receive legitimate replies which is different than the faked "From"
address.
Sarah
sarah@russellisland.net
[I'm sorry for this off topic message, but I think it is an important
question]
The mailinglist is unmoderated, so right now it isn't possible to stop
the spam (At least That is what Gerald told me!). I urge everyone
concerned to mail w3 and tell them that these UCE:s annoys you and
that w3 should _rapidly_ do something about this probem. You can mail
Gerald Oskoboiny, gerald@w3.org , he is the postmaster at w3.
The appropriate thing to do is to write a mail and complain to their
domain postmaster. Do not flood anyone, that is just as bad as them
spamming us in the first place. Very often the emails in the spam are
fake and do not work or goes to someone who is innocent.
I have nothing to do whith w3 (other than that i translate html4-docs
to swedish :) so do not mail me about the UCE. I don't want to discuss
this problem on the list (as it is _very_ off topic). But if you have
any questions about this mail, i'll be glad to responce privately by
email.
Regards
Fredrik Jonson
pt97fjo@student.hk-r.se
Dear Translators,
I am really sorry you are being bothered by spam messages.
The w3c-translators@w3.org list up to a few weeks ago was only open
to people subscribed to the list. However, the list serves as the
place for anouncements of translations, by people who are not necessarily
subscribed to the list. For this reason, we opened the list to general
access. However, this makes it vulnerable to spam, so we may have to
reconsider this decision.
If you have any suggestion or preference on this issue, please mail
me or Gerald Oskoboiny, gerald@w3.org or Dave Raggett dsr@w3.org .
Dave is currently the maintainer of this list.
Regards, Martin.
