Dear sir,
I am glad to announce that our working group have decided to start with
translating some of W3C documents to Russian. The first one is WAI WCAG 1.0.
For a web-master this document is very important. It contains a lot of
useful information that is often not used by web-authors (sad:). Another
point is that this document has never been translated to Russian in an
appropriate way. That's the point of our decision to translate WCAG 1.0
first.
As we only start translating, there are some questions we have.
1. If there is a known translation of one of your documents (HTML 4.01
for example) and I find it very useful, but full of mistakes and
"unclearness", may I use this translation for further development? Exactly,
the question is in licensing: in GPL, for instance, there is an ability to
make certain changes to the source and distribute this changed source with a
copyright notice of an original author/editor left.
a. So, can I make changes to a translation and ditribute it (or
publish on my own web-site) modifying copyright notice like this:
"Translated by Original Translator; revised and corrected by Revisor, 2002"?
b. Does any W3C licensing statement deny this?
c. Can translator deny this? (I guess not, but we need to be sure, of
course)
We look forward to your answers and any kind of additional explanations.
Best regards,
Andrei Sosnin
www: http://www.hot.ee/tomatensaft
It all depends on your vision.
Hello translators, Andrei, Kirill.
I'm very glad to hear there are volunteers for translation into
Russian.
Kirill Vyatchin and me have recently started the translation of
WCAG1 into Russian. Why don't you choose another document? A lot of
imortant documents remain untranslated.
As far as I know you don't have to state the reason to start a
translation. Can you point to the spec you're going to take after
WCAG?
Partial rights for the translated text belong to the translator I suppose.
May I answer, Martin?
You shouldn't modify the document's copyright notice in any way.
Instead, you may want to insert some comments/annotations into the
text of translation clearly marking them as yours (i. e. using CSS).
Check out the W3C IPR FAQ at http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/IPR-FAQ-20000620.html
I found no information concerning your case there.
If I were the author of the translation I would prefer to correct
the mistakes myself.
Best regards and happy translating.
Alexander "Croll" Savenkov http://www.thecroll.com/
w3@hotbox.ru http://croll.da.ru/
Hello translators, Alexander, Kirill,
1. Sorry, but I didn't see any messages about WCAG1 translation... Ok, so
you are already translating this document... We'll try to find another
document, but I am sure that we can translate WCAG1 together. This can be
made much faster and with lesser mistakes.
2. About the rights on a translated document. It is explicitly stated that
copyright holder is W3C and nothing is writen about translator's rights.
Although, I guess there may be a number of different translation's versions
of the same document, so, I think, translator should have copyright on his
translation version if it differs from other ones (or even if it does not).
3. Thanks for advise with copyright notice modification issue. Now I get it.
4. I know, that translator would prefer to correct mistakes by himself, but
the point is, that sometimes it is much easier to make a revision of a
document and republish it with "Revised by" comment. Of course, contacting
original translator is important, too.
Thank you in advance,
Best regards + happy traslating,
Andrei Sosnin
www: http://www.hot.ee/tomatensaft
It all depends on your vision.
Hello translators, Andrei, Kirill.
1.0.
I'm very glad to hear there are volunteers for translation into
Russian.
Kirill Vyatchin and me have recently started the translation of
WCAG1 into Russian. Why don't you choose another document? A lot of
imortant documents remain untranslated.
As far as I know you don't have to state the reason to start a
translation. Can you point to the spec you're going to take after
WCAG?
Exactly,
a
Partial rights for the translated text belong to the translator I suppose.
2002"?
May I answer, Martin?
You shouldn't modify the document's copyright notice in any way.
Instead, you may want to insert some comments/annotations into the
text of translation clearly marking them as yours (i. e. using CSS).
Check out the W3C IPR FAQ at
I found no information concerning your case there.
If I were the author of the translation I would prefer to correct
the mistakes myself.
Best regards and happy translating.
Alexander "Croll" Savenkov http://www.thecroll.com/
w3@hotbox.ru http://croll.da.ru/
Foreword: This message contains some detailed discussions of
special cases. But the main goal of this effort is to get many
good translations, and one of the best ways to get there is
to work together. Nothing said below forbids that!
Yes indeed. The copyright in a translation is jointly held by the
copyright holder of the original and the translator.
As part of giving the permission to translate, the W3C requires that
the translation is available under the same conditions as the original.
So e.g. everybody is allowed to print it out.
But the original W3C copyright also forbids changing of a W3C document
(except for translations). Extending that to the translation that would
mean that changing a translation (without the permission of the
translator) is not permitted. I'm not sure that's the only possible
interpretation, but it seems to be the most reasonable interpretation.
There is a very specific exception to this; if the W3C knows about
errors, and asks the translator to fix them, then the translator
*has to* fix them. So (at least in theory), it would be possible to
prepare a list of errors, submit it to the W3C, convince the W3C
that these are really errors, and then have the W3C request the
translator to fix the errors.
As Alex wrote above, annotating a W3C specification is permitted,
and therefore annotating a translation is permitted. Please see
for details. Also, translating a W3C spec is permitted, and therefore
translating a translation is permitted (under the conditions given at
An example would be if somebody would take a Russian translation and
translate it into Belorussian.
Indeed there is no explicit information. I tried to give the
best interpretation that I could find above.
Happy translating, and happy collaboration. Martin.
