Len wrote the following comments [1] in reference to the 21 December 2000
release [2]:
Technique 3.1.A [priority 2] User notification for appropriate markup
language
Evaluation:
* All BODY elements will generate a user notification.
LRK:: since this checkpoint only refers to images, why notify for all BODY
Elements? Why not just Images?
Also, I don't understand what "All body elements" mean. There is just one
"Body Element" since that term means the start tag, end tag, and everything
in between. Do you mean all elements that are part of the Body Element's
content?
This is an interesting question. Yes, primarily when IMG elements or
OBJECT used to embed images are identified, the author ought to be asked if
the image could be converted to an appropriate markup language (MathML,
HTML with style sheets, etc.). However, are there cases where another
element within the body of the document could be converted to a markup
language? For example, PRE elements to layout numbers converted to a
TABLE, or PDF converted to HTML or in the future ascii art could be
converted to SVG.
Is there a case where something in a P element should be marked up? ascii
art is the only thing I can think of.
Headers, forms, lists...all seem to be marked up well. Tables being
converted to style sheets are covered in other checkpoints.
Therefore, I think I disagree that all elements in the BODY element should
generate this warning. I think it should be limited to:
IMG
OBJECT/EMBED
PRE
what about the future? what about XML? RDF?
--wendy
[1] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-er-ig/2000Jan/0059.html
[2] http://www.w3.org/WAI/ER/IG/ert/ert-19991221.html
wendy a chisholm
world wide web consortium
web accessibility initiative
madison, wi usa
That looks good to me. I'd just add the (deprecated but widely used) APPLET.
Len
Leonard R. Kasday, Ph.D.
Institute on Disabilities/UAP, and
Department of Electrical Engineering
Temple University
423 Ritter Annex, Philadelphia, PA 19122
kasday@acm.org
(215) 204-2247 (voice)
(800) 750-7428 (TTY)
Hmmm. Well, those are w3c markups so in principle we should just get them
accessible instead of asking for equivalent HTML markup.
Len
Leonard R. Kasday, Ph.D.
Institute on Disabilities/UAP, and
Department of Electrical Engineering
Temple University
423 Ritter Annex, Philadelphia, PA 19122
kasday@acm.org
(215) 204-2247 (voice)
(800) 750-7428 (TTY)
what markup language should APPLETs be converted to?
I'm not sure how to fit it into the repair:
The user notification will be generated for each document.Help authors
convert decorative ascii art in PRE elements to SVG or an image format.
Help authors convert ascii art represeting tables of data in PRE elements
to TABLE elements.
Help authors convert images (IMG or OBJECT) used to format text to
XHTML/XML with style sheets.
Help authors convert images (IMG or OBJECT) used to format mathematical
equations to MathML.
--w
wendy a chisholm
world wide web consortium
web accessibility initiative
madison, wi usa
Could be converted to
animated gif (although that can be a hassle)
or
Dynamic HTML.
Actually, this brings up yet another point. Does anyone know the status of
acessibility of Applets? IBM and Sun were doing some impressive things
with Java accessibilty.
Although our guidelines say to only use W3C technology, accessible or not
(yet another topic).
Len
Leonard R. Kasday, Ph.D.
Institute on Disabilities/UAP, and
Department of Electrical Engineering
Temple University
423 Ritter Annex, Philadelphia, PA 19122
kasday@acm.org
(215) 204-2247 (voice)
(800) 750-7428 (TTY)
Somebody from IBM or Sun may speak up, but in case they're not monitoring
the discussion - Applets have the same capability for accessibility as
standalone Java applications do. However, it relies on the Java
Accessibility API which is standard in Java 1.2 but is an extension to Java
1.1.x. Java 1.1.x is what most browsers currently have and I don't know if
you can configure the Virtual Machines that ship with browsers and aren't
standalone to use the Accessibility API. The workaround is for the user to
use the Java Plugin, but then the page author must include the applet on the
page as a plugin (using EMBED or perhaps OBJECT) instead of as an APPLET
which would automatically use the browser's internal Virtual Machine.
Hopefully I got that right...
Michael
I think the situation may be better than that.
I looked in the User Agent Working Group implementation notes but I did not
find there a survey of the implementation of the Swing Set. This would be
good to know.
Thanks to the lawsuit, with my Win98 laptop I got, on a separate CD ROM, a
[Sun-] Compliant Java VM. But I cannot find in the OS any way to find an
"About" page for it that tells me what the Java VM I have installed is
compliant _with_.
Anybody know more about this?
Al
