The Amaya team is proud to announce the Amaya 8.1 release.
Binaries (Linux, Windows NT/2000/XP /9x/ME), Debian and RPM
packages are available at:
Source is available at:
This version includes several bug fixes and also the following new features:
- Implementation of the Annotea Bookmark schema using the Redland RDF
Application Framework (only in Linux platforms for the moment).
- An "Apply CSS" option in the Special Preferences Browsing menu that
allows the user to work without CSS.
- A "Current screen type" option in the Special Preferences Browsing
menu that allows to choose one of the CSS pre-defined screen types and apply
the appropriate CSS Media Type rules.
- Right TAB order and sensitive ESC keys in the Windows pop-up menus.
- Error lines in the PARSING.ERR window are now active links to source files.
- A Beta version of the OpenGL print (only in Linux platforms for the moment).
For more details see
Some reported bugs are not fixed yet by lack of time.
We'll work hardly to fix them in the next release.
Irene.
Ir?ne Vatton INRIA Rh?ne-Alpes
INRIA ZIRST
e-mail: Irene.Vatton@inria.fr 655 avenue de l'Europe
Thank you! I think I'll be able to move back from from 7.2 to use this
version; initial report for Amaya 8.1 follows. Item 5 is now supported in
Windows only? (Is support for Linux forthcoming?) Item 11 is a new variant
of item 10 which has largely been addressed.
PENDING in 8.1
4. Wish: bounce (increase/decrease) the nesting level of nested lists
easily.
5. Wish: A shortcut key for skipping/replacing+next in the spell checker so
I don't have to rely upon the mouse and compex navigation to quickly move
through the document. Also, using ESC to dismiss pop-up dialogs
8. Wish: Can it open a new window in parallel? If the other window is slow
to load it holds up all of my windows.
11. Bug: Sometimes when I want to click on a fragment in another window, I
hit click, then click the target in the other window but the hypertext only
contains the URI of the other window, *not* the fragment id.
APPARENTLY ADDRESSED in 8.1
6. Bug: Not all id are shown when "show target" is selected.
7. Bug: When I click on the S030 hypertext in this document:
it opens the other document in a new window, but then resets my view to the
top of the page in my current window!
9. Bug: I encounter many instances that when
(a) the cursor is before the first letter of a next word and after a space
and the preceding word
(b) and I hit the delete key
(c) not only does it delete the first letter of the next word, but the
preceding space.
For example, where the carrot "^" represents the cursor position:
"foo ^bar" [hit delete]
"foo^ar"
10. Bug: When I want to click on a local fragment, I hit click, then if I
hit page up or down I loose the "click activation", if I scroll then click,
it opens another blank dialog.
And update to the pending bugs. 11 has been updated with my suspicion of the
cause (which was reminiscent of an older bug of not being able to treat
sole 'id' attributes -- with 'name' -- correctly), and 12 is a new bug
report of a crash.
11. Bug: When I want to click on a fragment in another window, I hit click,
then click the target in the other window but the hypertext only contains
the URI of the other window, *not* the fragment. (This seems to happen
when I'm using XHTML documents without a 'name' but only an 'id'.)
12. Bug: Amaya 8.1 seems a little more unstable than 7.2 For example,
go to my team page (W3C team access only) and place the cursor besides
"checker" in the Tools heading:
and hit 'Enter', amaya crashes.
Hello Joseph,
I have found the way to reproduce the bug 11. I don't have the fix for the
moment, I need to investigate more. It comes effectively from a sole 'id'
attribute.
The bug 12 has been fixed today (Ralph reported a similar crash) and will be
available tomorrow.
Thanks
Laurent
