Hi,
I have just got your new browser Amaya V1.3 for Linux.
It is really nice that now cut &amp; paste is possible in the standard way.
This makes working much easier.
But the new realease just ignores the file ~/.amaya.css , which is
interpreted correctly by the old version 1.2a. Without these information
the font of the displayed HTML text is nearly unreadable on my screen
(I use "magnification : 3;" and "font-family: helvetica;").
In the help texts there is nothing about a chage in the configuration
files. Is this a bug?
Can you tell me when it is planned that Amaya displays the new HTML 4.0
characters (&amp;cong; &amp;sim; &amp;alpha; etc.)? This would be very important for
many users.
Many thanks for your help,
Jochen M. Braun
Jochen M. Braun E-Mail: jbraun@astro.uni-bonn.de |
Sternwarte der WWW-URL: http://www.astro.uni-bonn.de/~jbraun/ |
D - 53121 Bonn |
F.R. Germany |
Private address: Oberer Markenweg 80, D - 56566 Neuwied |
I'm having the same problem on Digital UNIX; and I can't read the
tiny font that results....
Help!
- Jim
Jim Gettys
Digital Industry Standards and Consortia
Compaq Computer Corporation
Visting Scientist, World Wide Web Consortium, M.I.T.
jg@w3.org, jg@pa.dec.com
In-reply-to: Your message of Tue, 14 Jul 1998 07:31:51 -0700."
Hi,
I realize that I forgot to memtion an important modification in the Amaya
release
1.3.
As you know, previous Amaya releases used the "Maginfication" rule to
automatically zoom documents. This rule was prososed in earlyest CSS drafts
but was never adopted.
To make Amaya more conform to CSS1, we decided to remove this rule and to use
the registry file to control the magnification.
It's now possible to zoom in and zoom out document window by document window,
so each document displayed within a zoomed window will be displayed larger or
smaller than its real size according of the current zoom.
Amaya has a default zoom value equal to 0 (documents are displayed by default
as they are). This default value can be modified in the registry file of the
user by the parameter ZOOM. Users who used the CSS rule "Magnification: 3" in
previous Amaya releases (before 1.3) have now to set the corresponding
parameter value in the registry file: ZOOM=3.
Irene.
