* Listing vs. grouping vs. sectioning vs. paragraphing vs. theming
Inline lists have been raised in many fora. This is a step in the
right direction; as Al said (something like): "elements are for what
they do, not where they go". I'd like to add that they're also not for
what they look like, or how they render in any modality. The bottom
line, as TimBL put it, is to "say what you mean, rather than what you
want done with it".
Sighted readers infer semantics from visual presentation.
a,b,c and d infer a choice class of information.
Breaks in text (para class of presentation)infer some level of change
in subject matter.
That's historically true, but still relevant.
* Annotations, linking sections together
Following on from general "metadata", the GL group have often
expressed needs for:-
*** Associating images with text, and stating a precise
relationship
*** Providing annotations of content for semantic pragmatics, etc.
*** Being able to provide labels for form mechanisms etc.
This is generally termed as "annotation". RDF provides an excellent
way to make annotations, but it means canonicalizing that link to the
metadata. It means making it as standard as rel="stylesheet" is now;
which is probably a good thing.
Annotation can also help when adding metadata about the varieties of
content of different modalities,
That worries me. the link, rel="stylesheet" is reputedly something James
Clark threw together to fill a gap.
I still like the structural association
inLineContent .... /
* Content of different modalities
cf. http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-gl/2001JulSep/1000
- The Alt/Object Problem
MIME types are getting to be more and more redundant (in that they
should be replaced with URIs) as time goes on, and genericity of
documents is an important factor. Consider fragment identifiers on a
document that is an audio run. The media type might be MP3, RAM, or
even an HTML transcript. The reference to "one minute into the audio"
should be the same across content types.
Nice one. xpointer for smil?
Are you looking for common syntax here Sean?
* Classes, IDs, extensions. Extra semantics: action item, poem
If someone wants (traditionally) to ascribe extra semantics to a set
of elements, they have to use the "class" attribute. There is a
problem with that in that there is no way to define what this new
class means. It would be possible to come up with an RDF Schema that
people could follow to define what the new classes mean. It would then
be possible to retrieve this definition, using the afforementioned
metadata linking mechanism.
This smacks of changing the problem domain.
If an application goes digging around a website, it might come up
with one or many words to replace the contents of the class attribute
with other words. The problem then is interpreting those words.
surely the real problem is semantic interpretation of the contents of
the class attribute.
Regards Dave
********* snip here **************
NOTICE: The information contained in this email and any attachments is
confidential and may be legally privileged. If you are not the
intended recipient you are hereby notified that you must not use,
disclose, distribute, copy, print or rely on this email's content. If
you are not the intended recipient, please notify the sender
immediately and then delete the email and any attachments from your
system.
RNIB has made strenuous efforts to ensure that emails and any
attachments generated by its staff are free from viruses. However, it
cannot accept any responsibility for any viruses which are
transmitted. We therefore recommend you scan all attachments.
Please note that the statements and views expressed in this email
and any attachments are those of the author and do not necessarily
represent those of RNIB.
RNIB Registered Charity Number: 226227
Website: http://www.rnib.org.uk
I wonder if the letters that correspond to each choice can be
considered style or structure? I think that the CSS group considered
them to be style, and styling bullet points is a matter for CSS, but
note also the fact that user agents should copy out the points
(whatever style they may be) into the clipboard.
The thing to aim for w.r.t. XHTML 2.0 - and indeed all those languages
that are under the XAG domain - is that they promote grouping and
selection by elem/attr type, and have sufficient identity that one may
apply a particular style to the elems/attrs later on.
The kind of issue that I was raising was as to why we should have a
seperate element for list items? Why can't paragraphs be list items?
When you think about it, the different types of
grouping/selection/division elements in XHTML are fairly arbitrary,
and their choices seem to be based on those of information types in
pre-Web printed media. I can't say that I'd do it *much* differently,
but I wonder why we should step when we can take a leap.
[Annotations] It means making it as standard as rel="stylesheet"
is now; which is probably a good thing.
Annotation can also help when adding metadata about the
varieties of content of different modalities,
Oops, I should have been more careful with my wording... I didn't mean
that there should be a mechanism similar to rel="stylesheet"
technology-wise (I'm neutral as to how the link type gets
implemented), I just meant that there should be a very basic type in
the language that everyone can recognize as the de_facto for making
that association. In XHTML, at the moment, there isn't one, and that's
bad news all around.
The media type might be MP3, RAM, or even an HTML
transcript. The reference to "one minute into the audio"
should be the same across content types.
I'm not actually sure. The general opinion on the semantics of
fragment identifiers seems to change wildy depending upon who you're
discussing it with. TimBL talks about documents as having layers of
genericity:-
And DanC has talked about FragIDs being the same across media types,
but I'm not all that sure that an ID served out in HTML content can
also be served out in RDF as a variant. Are they mutually exclusive?
The RDF MIME type hasn't even been registered, so it's difficult to
tell.
So, what I really want is consensus on the matter. A common syntax
*would* be a very nice thing to have, to avoid things like XPointer.
XPointer was the thing that brought this issue up, for me. [I know
you've already got the following, but I want to spell it out for
reference purposes, and to clarify the position to myself.] Consider
if you have an audio transcript being served up as a variant of some
audio piece. In other words, when you visit:-
Depending upon your "accept" headers, you will either get back an XML
transcript of the audio, or the audio as some other form. Now, it is
quite possible to use an XPointer to point to some part of the
transcript, for example:-
But that XPointer may (and probably will not) apply to the audio media
type, so it's a dodgy URI-reference.
Consistent fragment syntax? I'd settle for almost anything, it'd be
better than what we have now. We already have the ID datatype for XML,
so why not get that consistently deployed? Of couse, when you get to
XML, the meaning of the FragID should probably be cast off to the
schema for the root namespace.
* Classes, IDs, extensions. Extra semantics: action item,
poem
Yep. More a case of me rambling off in an odd direction, rather than
deliberately changing the problem domain. Identifying the lcasses is
of course important, which is why they should map to URIs, or have
some kind of well-set-out structure so that we can model them. At the
moment, XHTML doesn't really have anything suitable enough, unless you
take the profile attribute to create a kind of namespace for the class
attribute values as well as the rel/rev attribute values. That's a
gross hack, so something needs to be resolved for XHTML 2.0; although
any leaning towards QNames/URIs would make it more difficult to style
with CSS. I've done a fair amount of practical experimentation on this
issue.
Kindest Regards,
Sean B. Palmer
@prefix : http://purl.org/net/swn# .
:Sean :homepage http://purl.org/net/sbp/ .
Could this be an author responsibility?
Thinking of DAISY, which uses smil, the master source is taken as
something outside the XML. this master file links out to
a)the text using a url+fragid,
b)the audio, using a time offset.
I guess a video could be the same?
With xlink principles, the link database would be the place to hold links,
from some master out into all media, from a common place.
That would provide the 'synchronisation' that DAISY has.
It does rely on the provision of a master file (DAISY name for the link
database)
from which all xrefs are found. Also on the realisation that this document
will
be delivered in n media.
HTH DaveP
NOTICE: The information contained in this email and any attachments is
confidential and may be legally privileged. If you are not the
intended recipient you are hereby notified that you must not use,
disclose, distribute, copy, print or rely on this email's content. If
you are not the intended recipient, please notify the sender
immediately and then delete the email and any attachments from your
system.
RNIB has made strenuous efforts to ensure that emails and any
attachments generated by its staff are free from viruses. However, it
cannot accept any responsibility for any viruses which are
transmitted. We therefore recommend you scan all attachments.
Please note that the statements and views expressed in this email
and any attachments are those of the author and do not necessarily
represent those of RNIB.
RNIB Registered Charity Number: 226227
Website: http://www.rnib.org.uk
