Hi
I'm trying to achieve AA status for a form and I'm stuck on how to do
radio fields (I realise I could use a select form but the client wants a
radio button):
The above is invalid as you can't have two id's which are the same... so
how does one do this?
Anyone have any ideas, thanks.
Chris
Chris Croome chris@webarchitects.co.uk
While working on a site that has over 700 documents, I encountered this
problem about the same time that Chris posted this message. Except for this
one issue the site I am working on can achieve AA status. This is also a
problem when using the validator.w3.org. The site will not validate at HTML
4.01 - can not use two or more id's with the same name.
So I ask the question again, has anyone been able to solve this problem?
thanks,
Nancy Massey
Dear Nancy,
I was hoping someone more technical than I would volunteer, but here's my
best guess...
(1) I too tend to use select form -- it's easier to navigate w/ a screen
reader. It also eliminates the particular problem you are having.
(2) Yes, you want all your radio buttons to have the same NAME value (or it
doesn't work right), but there is no compelling reason why ID has to be
equivalent to NAME, so your example code could be:
a Mentor only
a Mentor or a lead Mentor
Haven't tried this, so I can't say for sure it works. (The forms I have
done that use radio buttons I haven't bothered with ID values.) ID is
something that (in theory only?) gets picked up by the screen reader or
other UA. I am not sure if it can have spaces, or is even used in practice.
For example, "role value 1 of 2" might be a better choice.
Please let me know (on or off the list) if this works or not.
Cheers,
Bruce
From: w3c-wai-ig-request@w3.org [mailto:w3c-wai-ig-request@w3.org]On
Behalf Of Massey, Nancy
Sent: Wednesday, June 28, 2000 12:30 PM
Subject: Re: Radio buttons id's and labels
The ID values don't show up in JAWS/MSIE5.01, fwiw.
Patrick
Hi
Yep, that was my first idea of how to fix it... but the implication is
that radio buttons then cannot be used for forms which need AA?
The problem here is that the label then does not have a corresponding
form element...
I've just had another idea, nest the label tags?
a Mentor only
type="radio"
a Mentor or a lead Mentor
Or is this just a daft hack?
Chris
Chris Croome chris@webarchitects.co.uk
The theoretical answer from HTML 4 is that the "Choice of role" is the
LEGEND of a FIELDSET enclosing the set of radio buttons.
What I don't fully know is how that plays in current browsers and assistive
technology.
For more information you could start at
Al
From: w3c-wai-ig-request@w3.org [mailto:w3c-wai-ig-request@w3.org]On
Behalf Of Massey, Nancy
Sent: Wednesday, June 28, 2000 12:30 PM
Subject: Re: Radio buttons id's and labels
