Hold the bus a mo Leah,
Whilst I must confess to a slight guffaw at your posting, and it is in part
true. I think you are being a bit hard on many individuals that make up the
list.
From time to time the better funded college and government web designers
do tend to forget that the majority of web design work is done in a highly
competitive commercial environment. No time or cash for R&amp;D, and trips to
conventions. So any help and advice from government funded operations is
much appreciated. However taking the attitude of sending the page details
and getting it coded for you, may be handy but not constructive.
I have followed this list's postings with interest for some time now and
found if you ask a direct request for help it is generally offered. If
there is a short fall, it is all to often the common perception is that the
Internet stretches from east to west coasts and the other unimportant bit
called Acidrainia, formally known as the world. I do however believe that
plaudits and pats on the back are better served by private e-mail and not
posted in the discussion group, and I do also question some motives for
being on the list, as a covert way of getting work, rather than furthering
accessibility. But then I assume that one will beget the other.
I have noted in an attempt to appear to belong (I suspect) even U.K.
designers refer to the ADA in some postings and not the UK version, the DDA
. Which if inspected could have more teeth to bite with, because here in
the U.K. we do not have as many handcuffs in the form of amendments to a
constitution. We just lack the movers and shakers that live on the western
edges of the pond.
It is because we have legislation already in place that can be applied to
the Internet that I believe global accessibility issues would be better
served if a second front was opened here. The sooner the better, as up
until now our movers and shakers are still it seems trapped in a wet paper bag.
Any offers of support?
Paul Davis
I think that this list (the WAI interest group list) isn't really
meant to be a list for the "front line" web designer; this is
really something else and while from time to time it serves as a
resource for accessible web design tips, it's really more for
communication about web accessibility issues in general, and
about the WAI in specific.
There are a number of other mailing lists out there that might
give a neophyte or even a veteran designer some good tips on
accessible web design, and I'm always glad to see more of them
appear. :)
As an obligatory plug, questions about web accessibility are
welcomed on -any- of the HTML Writers Guild's discussion lists,
described at:
Trial membership in the Guild is free (for a year or more), so
I encourage you to check them out if you haven't before...
--Kynn
Kynn Bartlett kynn@idyllmtn.com
I don't want someone to do the coding for me. I would however appreciate
tips on better ways to do things, tutorials someone might recommend,
referrals to references, and practical pointers. My response to David's post
was intended to point out that this list does not by itself meet the needs
of the average web designer in the trenches so to speak. His post seemed to
me to imply that there was no reason for another list to do with
accessibility issues, a position that I must strongly disagree with. This
list is fine as far as it goes, but it is not the only reference one needs
to implement accessible web design. The WC3 site is not alot of help with
the actual techniques to use either. I looked all over the web for
information on how to alter tables for use by screen readers and have yet to
find anything except the WC3 saying I should do it. Fine, I want to do it,
but I need to know how. Is that unreasonable?
Leah
Do You Yahoo!?
Talk to your friends online with Yahoo! Messenger.
Thank you for the information. I am in fact a member of the HTML Writers
Guild and am on their lists for critiques, techniques and business among
others. My response to David's post was simply intended to point out that
this list is not the sort of list that the accessiblewebdesign list is going
to be.
Leah Fretwell
Webmaster The Nuclear History Site
Member HTML Writers Guild and
International Webmasters Association
Do You Yahoo!?
Talk to your friends online with Yahoo! Messenger.
LF:: "I looked all over the web for information on how to alter tables
for use by screen readers and have yet to find anything except the WC3
saying I should do it. Fine, I want to do it, but I need to know how. Is
that unreasonable?"
WL: Not at all, hence the technique at:
which your search apparently missed. Although the techniques documents
is, well, ponderous, it still contains most of what you seek.
IF IT DOESN'T we would really appreciate any help you can give about
what is not included that needs to be. The techniques are a perpetual
work-in-progress organized for exactly the purpose you bring up. They
are well-indexed and as complete as we've been able to make them -
largely because of the kind of help you will provide. Unfortunately this
set of techniques is, as was pointed out about the guidelines in general
"huuuuuuggggge" but once you've mastered use of the table of contents
and indexing features, it is quite accessible - in both senses of that
now overworked word.
If this doesn't satisfy what you're seeking, please bring it to our
attention either through this list or, in cases where the techniques
come up short on the GL list at w3c-wai-gl@w3.org.
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
We're sorry but the link you tried to access is forbidden.
Please step through the following points to find and hopefully fix the
problem:
Am I missing something?
Chuck Baslock
William:
Thank you very much for the information! I had tried searching with Alta
Vista, Yahoo, Google and ODP. I looked at Web Resources and other tutorial
sites. You have saved me more frustration! I really appreciate it, thank
you! And thank you Larry as well who also referred me to this resource! I
apologize for the tone of my post, I wasn't trying to be mean toward this
list, and I wasn't angry as it may have appeared. I was simply frustrated at
not being able to find the information I sought and it colored the tone of
my response to David's post. David, I didn't mean any of my post personally
about you, I was speaking of the list in general terms, categorizing the
usual types of posts I've seen. I realize that was unfair. This list was
never intended to provide the sort of information I was seeking. But that
simply points up the fact that there is more than room for another list on
the topic, don't you think? Thank you again, William and Larry, for the
referral! I promise to go back to lurking now! LOL!!
Leah
Do You Yahoo!?
Talk to your friends online with Yahoo! Messenger.
