Hi all,
short question about this: Did anyone ever had problems with things like
this:
here() !-- comment -- /ds:Signature[1]
I mean that the XPath is "polluted" with a comment which splits the String?
I figured out that this probably crashes my implementation.
Christian
here() returns a node set containing either the attribute
node, processing instruction or element holding the
expression; not the text node(s). So here() is { XPath }.
Merlin
r/geuer-pollmann@nue.et-inf.uni-siegen.de/2002.05.06/16:29:43
The information contained in this message is confidential and is intended
for the addressee(s) only. If you have received this message in error or
there are any problems please notify the originator immediately. The
unauthorised use, disclosure, copying or alteration of this message is
strictly forbidden. Baltimore Technologies plc will not be liable for
direct, special, indirect or consequential damages arising from alteration
of the contents of this message by a third party or as a result of any
virus being passed on.
This footnote confirms that this email message has been swept for Content
Security threats, including computer viruses.
Right. My question is: does your implementation collect the data from ALL
Text nodes to evaluate the XPath? Until now, my implementation crashed if
e.g. a PI is inserted into the Text (yes, I know: PIs are not allowed in
XML Signature).
Christian
The expectation of comment infestation in the XPath element content was
the biggest reason why we defined here() to return the element node
parent when it didn't appear in an attribute. Here's the one that
originally shook my boots, so to speak:
he !-- Yikes -- re()/blah/blah/blah
This is legal XML, so it has to be supported. In general, take the
'string' corresponding to the Xpath element content, which concatenates
all text nodes descendants.
Thanks,
John Boyer
[mailto:geuer-pollmann@nue.et-inf.uni-siegen.de]
Right. My question is: does your implementation collect the data from
ALL
Text nodes to evaluate the XPath? Until now, my implementation crashed
if
e.g. a PI is inserted into the Text (yes, I know: PIs are not allowed in
XML Signature).
Christian
like
--On Dienstag, 7. Mai 2002 10:37 -0700 John Boyer JBoyer@PureEdge.com
Hi John,
OK, that's what I do. Interesting that the above is legal. Maybe we should
include such an obfuscation into our interops ;-)
Thanks,
Christian
