When/Why "How" Becomes "What"
A lot of our discussions re content/presentation "separation" is based on a
notion held by us left-brained zealots that there's some "reality" out
there in what Korzybski called "event space" which may be talked about. An
equally held view is that creators put stuff into event space for which the
"why" has no clear map to other events: in other words one has decided to
play/dance/act/paint a particular something without having any
description/excuse/reason therefor.
Frequently used exemplars are Beethoven's Fifth and The Mona Lisa. Most
critics think "Moby Dick" is an allegory dealing with Captain Ahab, I think
it's about whales' relationship to man/nature. I don't know what Melville
thought.
The point is that the sound bite I use of Tim Berners-Lee ("If you write
what you mean, rather than what you want done with it, it can be repurposed
so much better") doesn't take notice of entities created without "meaning"
in the sense I think Tim intends and for which WCAG is created.
Many authors think they are "creating" in the pure sense that Van Gogh
might have (often artists don't even title stuff, let alone try to
"explain" it). Frequently this is vanity/sloth. Usually they can clarify
but are often beset with time constraints and laziness so that something
obvious to them is left as a painful "exercise for the reader".
Perhaps this a "DUH!" exercise on my part, but I wonder if some mention of
it should be made as a sort of "exception" to the "separate
content/structure/presentation" imperative?
Love.
EACH UN-INDEXED/ANNOTATED WEB POSTING WE MAKE IS TESTAMENT TO OUR HYPOCRISY
William,
It always amuses me to read about "separating" content, structure
and presentation .... when what we want is content that can be presented
according to user needs, and structure which can be flexible to user needs.
If the author provides the flexibility in presentation and structure, it is
immaterial whether or not they are separated ....
Incidentally, my precocious student was in the lab today, and had
already looked up Duke Ellington on the web since I told him that was who
was in the top hat on the web site... I sat him next to me, and pulled up
the site and let it download while he was working on a game (that was not
challenging to him) ... and he listened to all the spots - his favorite was
the wa-wa trumpets .... but he also listened carefully to Mercer's piece
.... studied the pictures, and commented on the guy in the upper right
corner (not online now so don't have the name), and why he looked so "ugly"
... I told him that when he got old, he would look just like that (this is
a freckle-faced boy with sandy hair who can ignore the obvious difference)
.... and he said, but he really needs a shave .... Thanks for sharing that
site !!!
Anne
Anne Pemberton
apembert@erols.com
I believe that the idea is that "providing the flexibility" is another way
of stating what is meant by "separating" them. The problem in older HTML
versions is that there are elements that don't permit ascertaining the
semantics of the presentational content.
If items on sale are indicated only by their color/font then the
information that they are on sale is unavailable to someone who can't
determine that there's different visual presentation.
As to needing a shave, perhaps your precocious student could see the
picture of me on the "Peter" site? Of course Santa doesn't shave! (I get a
lot of Santa Claus takes from little kids in supermarket lines).
Love.
EACH UN-INDEXED/ANNOTATED WEB POSTING WE MAKE IS TESTAMENT TO OUR HYPOCRISY
William,
Briggs saws the Peter and the Wolf site last week and didn't
comment on your picture. Your beard is neatly trimmed, whereas I think he
was seeing a heavy "five o'clock shadow" on the other picture.
I understand the example on separation, but I don't think that
asking for "separation" will tell the web author what we want them to do.
What we want them to do is consider presentation as more than visual, to
provide the presentation features so that they can be repurposed if used in
a sound only presentation. What are the ways in which this can be done?
Yes, style sheets that can put the sale prices in a special class that
displays them in a certain color or font, but what does that add to the
non-visual presentation? I think it can allow a speech reader to identify
the classes as they occur in the reading? How else can this be achieved
without style sheets? Perhaps adding a graphic (a bubble that says "sale"
and is alt tagged as "sale") ... If this is a valid solution, I don't know
that telling someone to "separate" presentation from content will lead to
such a conclusion/action.
Anne
Anne Pemberton
apembert@erols.com
