One comment, we have a section 4.15, with no intro paragraph and one subsection
4.15.1. We should either consolidate it all under 4.15, or come up with at
least one more subsection and an intro paragraph.
I broke out Scenario A with a simplification, then a what if, to show the
complexities of cross-border services. I felt like it was important to point
out just how complex such a service is when serving multiple countries.
I made some minor edits to Scenarios B and C.
4.15.1 Modeling Tax, Customs, Legal, and Other Cross-Border and Cultural
Considerations
{leave first 2 paragraphs as is, or not}
Scenario A: Web service A, specific to a country C, takes in the value of a
sale, a language parameter, and the names of the city and the province. The
currency is limited to country C's official currency. Service A then calls a
set of services, translating names into identifiers. Service B takes in a city
id and a monetary value, then calculates city sales tax based on current tax
tables it retrieves from other services; it returns the tax amount as a numeric
value. Service C performs a similar function for taxes at the provincial level.
Service A then takes those monetary values and returns them with identifying
tags for the city and provincial tax.
If Service A were to be used for multiple countries, there would have to be
additional parameters, for example:
o a country identifier
o other regional identifiers, such as county and state
o a currency identifier
There would have to be a function to handle currency calculations, possibly in a
separate service. The additional tax regions need to be managed, again by
separate services.
Scenario B: An application uses a Web service to send DVDs to rental customers
around the world. DVDs contain a region code that limits where they can be
played (according to the country they are intended for.) The Web service takes
the country ID of of the customer and selects the right region code DVD to send.
Scenario C: Web service M takes a country ID, looks it up in a database, and
returns the driving rules for that country.
I'm not sure what other subsections would fit into this category. I had a
thought about a scenario of a service which took a product code and looked up
whether it was legal to ship that type of product to the country identified as
the destination. But it seemed a bit complex to have as a service.
Anyone else have an idea what might be included in this section?
Andrea
I have always wished that my computer would be as easy to use as my telephone.
My wish has come true. I no longer know how to use my telephone.
-Bjarne Stroustrup, designer of C++ programming language (1950- )
I incorporated Andrea's text, but didn't modify the section structure.
With regard to Andrea's questions, I'm starting to feel that this section
might be a rathole that doesn't really demonstrate anything germane to WS
technology...
Addison
Addison P. Phillips
Director, Globalization Architecture
webMethods | Delivering Global Business Visibility
Chair, W3C Internationalization (I18N) Working Group
Chair, W3C-I18N-WG, Web Services Task Force
Internationalization is an architecture.
It is not a feature.
The question is, if we take it out, will people make such Web services without
thinking about the complexities? And if they do, do we care? Would such people
read this document in the first place?
I have always wished that my computer would be as easy to use as my telephone.
My wish has come true. I no longer know how to use my telephone.
-Bjarne Stroustrup, designer of C++ programming language (1950- )
I think we need a place to make clear that there are many issues
that go beyond those that can be addressed in a basic standard.
Maybe we should leave the section in, but say clearly that this
is just examples of higher-level internationalization needs, and
there is no expectation that they will be covered in basic
technology, therefore, service implementers should address them
on an application level.
Regards, Martin.
I think it is useful to show some of these more complex scenarios as
"cautionary tales". Although most Web services people who need to see our
document probably won't, it will make a useful reference for those of us who
do know about it.
The question is: how much material in what form?
Addison
Addison P. Phillips
Director, Globalization Architecture
webMethods | Delivering Global Business Visibility
Chair, W3C Internationalization (I18N) Working Group
Chair, W3C-I18N-WG, Web Services Task Force
Internationalization is an architecture.
It is not a feature.
