From: Judy Brewer [14]jbrewer@w3.org
We were concerned that an impression was building -- unsupported by data --
that the WAI Guidelines did not address the majority of the problems
experienced by people with disabilities on Web sites.
It is unsupported by data to state that "the WAI guidelines" don't address
those problems. It is entirely accurate to state that the Web Content
Accessibility Guidelines, the *only* "WAI guidelines" considered by the
DRC, do not address them.
The DRC did not claim to evaluate anything other than WCAG.
Joe Clark | joeclark@joeclark.org
Accessibility http://joeclark.org/access/
Expect criticism if you top-post
Is this not a failure of EO WG?
The response from Judy was a defensive one. Maybe if EO WG had written
the response, and in a way that would be a bit more educational of the
WAI's complete set of reccomendations, it would be seen as less of a
political nature and more of a clarification of WAI's work on
accessibility.
-Steve
From: Judy Brewer [14]jbrewer@w3.org
We were concerned that an impression was building -- unsupported by
data -- that the WAI Guidelines did not address the majority of the
problems experienced by people with disabilities on Web sites.
Joe Clark said:
From: Judy Brewer [14]jbrewer@w3.org
We were concerned that an impression was building -- unsupported by
data --
that the WAI Guidelines did not address the majority of the problems
experienced by people with disabilities on Web sites.
But, although perhaps "accurate" in its claim, I agree the DRC study &amp;
report is misleading if it did not also consider UAAG and ATAG as the
complete set of "WAI Guidelines". It is very inaccurate to use the term
"WAI Guidelines" (upper or lower case G) when only referring to WCAG. My
scan of the report found the occurrence of the term "WAI Guidelines" 4
times. Although the report defines "the guidelines" as WCAG 1.0, it
incorrectly and misleadingly introduced the term "WAI Guidelines" when
still only referring to WCAG. However, my point is not so much the
technical terms used or not, the fact that the study didn't also consider
the UAAG and ATAG is unfortunate and misleading misleading, Perhaps we
could form a "commission" and determine who to blame, but let's learn from
what I consider a shortcomings and encourage or demand that future studies
include a more holistic view of all of the guidelines.
Perhaps it is not W3C/WAI's fault that only WCAG seems to find itself in
policies and legislation, perhaps the advocacy groups and policy makers
have some responsibility to understand that the complete set, all three
documents, together when adhered to provide for actual access by people
with disabilities. And, as Judy said:
"There is a wealth of interesting policy recommendations in the report,
as well, addressing issues such as the need for increased training,
improved evaluation practices, and more access to up-to-date assistive
technology for people with disabilities -- things which provide an
essential supporting context for achieving Web accessibility,
but are so often overlooked."
Regards,
Phill Jenkins
IBM Research - Accessibility Center
