One reason why I would not use the phrase "click here" or similar is that it insinuates the user is able to use a pointing device (mouse or what have you) which is not always true. Whether or not this is being a bit too sensitive on how the phrase maybe taken by the user, may just be a personal issue/preference.
From:tom mcCain [SMTP:tmccain@on-net.net]
Sent:Wednesday, July 19, 2000 12:46 PM
Subject:NOW: appropriate hypertext
The real problem with "click" is it represents a failure
to think about appropriate hypertext...
I think it is possible to use appropriate hypertext and still use the word
"click" in that hypertext.
Link copy should tell users what to expect when they follow a link. Making
rules for how we accomplish that misses the point.
Whether we use "click," "select," "follow," "read," "choose," "slam" or
"pound" as the active verb is a literary issue, not a literal one, as long
as meaning is clear.
Terminology is an appropriate part of design. Depending on the context and
purpose of one site, I may choose to use one hypertext phrase throughout.
On a different site, I may choose variety. That choice and the goal of
clarity rightly belong within the creative challenge.
../tom
tom 'n' mindy mcCain
designers of really neat web stuff
since before the turn of the last century
tom@crittur.com | mindy@crittur.com | 13-h@indianaoutboard.org
Keyboards click.
Kynn Bartlett kynn@idyllmtn.com
true that keyboards click, but it is the key press that clicks. click is a
mouse term and therefor it is not ui independant.
DP:: "click is a mouse term"
WL: WHAT?!
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
well, we're having this discussion about language in links. click is
usually used in refering to a mouse action.
DP:: "click is usually used in refering to a mouse action."
WL: In the current thread "click" is used as a human action to select
the link to activate. A mouse is only one kind of such actions. In fact
if dictionaries were as fast as the Web "click" would already have
included the definition "pursuing a hypertext link". IMHO. 'tain't
whacha say, it's the way howjasayit. Sticks and stones and all that.
"blink" or "crip" OK, "nigger" not. Whatever. shout NO MATTER HOW MUCH
WE RAIL AGAINST IT "click here" IS HERE TO STAY! /shout
Let's move on to something we might be able to do something about,
please.
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
Jan -
My recommendation would be to add a link to an "About this site" pageto the
menu at the bottom. You could even put the contact information (see
below) on that page as well. This page could then include a description
of the background graphic: (Zeus(?) with his left arm around ??? reaching
out with his right index finger to touch the index finger of a robot)
The Research Center on Computing &amp; Society
at Southern Connecticut State University
501 Crescent Street ? New Haven, CT 06515
Director: (203) 392-6790 ? e-mail: webmaster@computerethics.org
Karl Hebenstreit, Jr.
US General Services Adminstration
Office of Governmentwide Policy
"JAN HECHT" HECHT@SCSU.CTSTATEU.EDU @w3.org on 07/19/2000 06:04:20 PM
Sent by: w3c-wai-ig-request@w3.org
Subject: Moving on...
I have a question about a site on our campus I was asked to look at. The
dedsigner used graphics in the background. The graphics reflect the subject
of the site (computers and society) and visually are an interesting part of
the experience of the site, though they don't impart any information per
se.
Those using the text version of this site or using a screen reader do not
know there are graphics they're not seeing. I'm concerned (as are the
designers) that there is no indication or description of the graphics for
such users. Is there a way to add ALT tags to background graphics? Any
other suggestions on adding descriptions of the graphics?
The site is: http://www.computerethics.org
Thanks
Jan
Janice Hecht
Coordinator, Adaptive Technology Services
Southern Connecticut State University
501 Crescent Street, EN5
New Haven, CT 06515
HECHT@SOUTHERNCT.EDU
Click is slang for "follow this link" in the same way that "web
surfer" is slang for "user of the world wide web."
Trying to overcome things that actually cause people to lose
access to content is one thing; trying to change slang because we
don't think it's "inclusive" enough is another thing altogether.
Fights should be chosen wisely, and there's no reason to choose a
fight over "click here for X " -- the meaning is perfectly unambiguous
when used as slang in a non-technical setting. (The same way that
it's appropriate to say "browser" instead of "user agent" in most
cases.)
Kynn Bartlett kynn@idyllmtn.com
[Just as a note about XML trends and the future]
The problem with explaining the BACGROUND image is much like the LONGDESC
problem.
Logically, these descrptions are about things that are themselves
attributes, whereas the SGML tradition only allows us to add attributes to
give information about elements. Not to give information about attributes.
Except via unpopular technologies such as architectural forms.
A clue as to a possible solution to this dilemma is the way that the title
information item in the SVG syntax is no longer an XML attribute but is an
XML subelement, even though its function is to give information about its
parent element. This allows us to support international titles better. It
lets us incorporate RUBY and other markup in the title that one needs
beyond UniCode text to present literate titles in a wide variety of
languages. It also allows us to then come back and give information about
the TITLE by attributes within the TITLE element or by RDF metadata which
is then able to point at the TITLE element as what it is talking about.
So we should be thinking about migrating the background image to a
subelement in XHTML 2 as opposed to an attribute so we can associate a
description with it just as with any other image.
Al
webmaster@computerethics.org
I have a question about a site on our campus I was asked to look at. The
dedsigner used graphics in the background. The graphics reflect the subject
of the site (computers and society) and visually are an interesting part of
the experience of the site, though they don't impart any information per
se.
Those using the text version of this site or using a screen reader do not
know there are graphics they're not seeing. I'm concerned (as are the
designers) that there is no indication or description of the graphics for
such users. Is there a way to add ALT tags to background graphics? Any
other suggestions on adding descriptions of the graphics?
The site is: http://www.computerethics.org
Thanks
Jan
Janice Hecht
Coordinator, Adaptive Technology Services
Southern Connecticut State University
501 Crescent Street, EN5
New Haven, CT 06515
HECHT@SOUTHERNCT.EDU
[DJW:] It's origins, though, was to give
concrete instructions to users of mice rather
than using something more abstract, like "activate".
Now, non-mouse users need to do two translations:
click to the abstract concept and then that concept
to the concrete one for their user interface.
People who still need to be told to click mice would be
the people who would have difficulty making these
translations.
This is like fighting over whether you can still tell someone to dial a
number on the phone, even though rotary dials are long gone in most places!
Jan
Janice Hecht
Coordinator, Adaptive Technology Services
Southern Connecticut State University
501 Crescent Street, EN5
New Haven, CT 06515
HECHT@SOUTHERNCT.EDU
If I remember correctly, the advice was: read the hypertext link
out aloud and if it made sense it was good. With IBM's HPR, you
would end up with "Click Here" "Click Here" "Click Here" "Click
Here" for the links preview, which would not made sense to
anyone. Following the (I think it was Kynn's) advice "Click here
to go to Whitehouse.com" "Click here to go to W3C.com" or simply
"Whitehouse.com" "W3C.com" will make sense by it's self in HPR
links preview. In pwWebSpeak, It will read "LINK Click here"
followed by the regular text, which may make sense. However,
using the keyboard to navigate through the page to get to the
different links will result in "LINK Click here" "LINK Click
here" "LINK Click here" "LINK Click here" which would not make
any sense to the user while ""LINK Click here for Whitehouse.com"
"LINK Click here for W3C.com" or simply "Whitehouse.com" or
"W3C.com" would make sense.
N.B. I have changed the names of the links to protect their
innocence ;-)
Philip Ramsey | Subscribe to my newsletters @
Volunteer: Betta World Foundation
(http://bettaworld.freehosting.net/)
Jamaica National Children's Home (http://www.jnch.org.jm/)
Triumph Unity Sports Club (http://members.xoom.com/t_u_s_c/)
| If I remember correctly, the advice was: read the hypertext link
| out aloud and if it made sense it was good.
Yes, link text should IMO work just as well as if it has just been ordinary
text.
Example -- bad use link text:
_Click here_ to read some articles I've written about web design and palm trees.
Example -- good link text:
I've written some articles about _web design_ and _palm trees_ which you might
find interesting.
| With IBM's HPR, you
| would end up with "Click Here" "Click Here" "Click Here" "Click
| Here" for the links preview, which would not made sense to
| anyone. Following the (I think it was Kynn's) advice "Click here
| to go to Whitehouse.com" "Click here to go to W3C.com" or simply
| "Whitehouse.com" "W3C.com" will make sense by it's self in HPR
| links preview. In pwWebSpeak, It will read "LINK Click here"
| followed by the regular text, which may make sense. However,
| using the keyboard to navigate through the page to get to the
| different links will result in "LINK Click here" "LINK Click
| here" "LINK Click here" "LINK Click here" which would not make
| any sense to the user while ""LINK Click here for Whitehouse.com"
| "LINK Click here for W3C.com" or simply "Whitehouse.com" or
| "W3C.com" would make sense.
You can find official information from the _White House_. The _W3C_ is the
consortium behind the _HTML Recommendation_.
Doesn't this look/sound better?
I might also mention that Opera 4 has a very nice feature, activated by Ctrl+J,
which displays a list of all links in the document (either in the order they
appear in the document or alphabetised). A long list of 'Click here' or 'Click
here to access Whitehouse.gov', 'Click here to access the W3C homepage' doesn't
look good.
Karl Ove Hufthammer
Hi Karl,
Thank you for your clarification. Eventually, I will make my
whole web site accessible. Right now I am doing it one page at a
time as the page is updated. I realize that by making my site
accessible this way will make my site appear chaotic but at least
if I make a mistake the mistake will appear on one page instead
of site wide. Once I have perfected my skills I plan to make all
the sites I maintain for non-profit organizations here in Jamaica
accessible.
BTW, I would like to put the Jamaica Society for the Blind on the
internet but need assistance in acquiring computers (with Braille
and speak technology). The members of the society are hard
working individuals who are barely surviving at or below the
poverty level and would be ideal for testing assistive
technologies. Any suggestions will be appreciated.
Philip
Philip Ramsey | Subscribe to my newsletters @
Volunteer: Betta World Foundation
(http://bettaworld.freehosting.net/)
Jamaica National Children's Home (http://www.jnch.org.jm/)
Triumph Unity Sports Club (http://members.xoom.com/t_u_s_c/)
