Stephane Boyera stephane@w3.org
W3C +33 (0) 4 92 38 78 34
F-06902 Sophia Antipolis Cedex,
France
Behalf Of Riboni
Hello everyone,
I am considering the possibility to extend the CC/PP framework by
defining a new vocabulary for describing data not covered by UAProf, as
personal information and interests.
Given the wide range of features covered by this new vocabulary,
different attributes with the same name (i.e. "rdf:ID" attribute value)
may occur.
For example, I could declare two "expirationDate" attributes, one
belonging to the "CreditCard" Component and one belonging to the
"Session" Component.
I think that such an RDF Schema wouldn't be valid, as I would redefine
the same resource.
Is there a way for defining two attributes with the same name in two
different Components of the same vocabulary? If not, what's the utility
of Components?
Please forgive me if my question is a trivial one, but I'm not an RDF
expert!
Thank you in advance,
Daniele.
Hi,
If CC/PP does not permit an Attribute (e.g. ExpirationDate) to
be in different Components (i.e. CreditCard and Session) then
it seems to me that CC/PP is broken. (RDF itself certainly does not
care.)
So the answer to your question is "yes, just do it".
BTW, when your schema is publicly avialable, please post the URI
to this list
Regards,
Art Barstow
Stephane Boyera stephane@w3.org
W3C +33 (0) 4 92 38 78 34
F-06902 Sophia Antipolis Cedex,
France
-----Original Message-----
Hello everyone,
I am considering the possibility to extend the CC/PP framework by defining a new vocabulary for describing data not covered by UAProf, as personal information and interests.
Given the wide range of features covered by this new vocabulary, different attributes with the same name (i.e. "rdf:ID" attribute value) may occur.
For example, I could declare two "expirationDate" attributes, one belonging to the "CreditCard" Component and one belonging to the "Session" Component.
I think that such an RDF Schema wouldn't be valid, as I would redefine the same resource.
Is there a way for defining two attributes with the same name in two different Components of the same vocabulary? If not, what's the utility of Components?
Please forgive me if my question is a trivial one, but I'm not an RDF expert!
Thank you in advance,
Daniele.
Hi Art and All,
... (RDF itself certainly does not care.)
I don't agree at all. RDF does not impose formal constraints (e.g. if a
property has domain rdf:Resource, then for each resource can be asserted
that property, provided that everything pertains to this type because of
class specialization transitiveness). But in all case it's intended that a
property has its own identity that is associated with a precise meaning. For
semantic consistency it's not possible that a property has different
meanings when applied to subjects of different types. This kind of
polymorphism is not issued in the RDF-RDFS domain (I think). This could work
within a certain application domain, but not within the standard RDF-RDFS
domain.
CC/PP does permit that an attribute pertains to different components. What
you must do is just associate the attribute with your components' superclass
(e.g. ccpp:Component). But for whatever type of profile component you assert
that attribute, it's always the same vocabulary attribute that you instance,
with the same semantic. You cannot use the same attribute and intend
different thinks when it's asserted for profile components that are
instances of different component classes that extend the component
superclass with which you associated the attribute in your vocabulary. For
these goals you should define different attributes.
Regards,
Francesco
