Hi,
I am a final year student in the Indian Institute of Science,
Bangalore doing my Masters.
I am new to this mailing-list and also a new user of Amaya. Can I get
to know the exact subset of MathML elements and entities supported by
Amaya ? I am not able to view entities like "&amp;ll" and also MathML elements
like mtd .
Bye,
Ashes
In-reply-to: Your message of Wed, 26 Aug 1998 15:48:57 +0530."
Pine.SOL.3.96.980826154530.25718A-100000@osiris.csa.iisc.ernet.in
Hi,
Tthe exact subset of MathML elements and entities supported by Amaya is
described in the Math.html page (see help command):
Amaya doesn't implement the Content Markup, but only the Presentation Markup.
The mtd element is supported, it's part of the matrix.
Some entities can be missing, but I don't know the entity "&amp;ll".
Regards
Irene.
I am not sure if I the problem is in my build but I have
noticed the following :
a) In a form you can't use the tab to go to the next text
input field.
b) A password field shows the text which is being typed in.
Did I do something wrong?
S.B.
I don't think this is wrong, I experience the same behavoure. I think this
is because Amaya is an editor with limited brouwser capabilities. It is not
a brouwser with edit capabilities.
You think you are filling out the form but you are not, you are editing the
file!
- Fill out the form and save the file to a local file. Open it with an ascii
editor and see.
- Have a look at the structure while you are typing.
It might be a good idea to be able to switch amaya to brouwse/test/read-only
mode so you can test your forms or browse with it.
Regards,
CB
Try not to let implementation details sneak into design documents.
Corne' Beerse| Alcatel Telecom Nederland
The entity ll is listed in the REC-MathML/chap6/MMALIAS2.html
as the double-less-than sign with Unicode 226A.
Also when I am using "&amp;Newline" inside MTEXT amaya is giving
error: invalid entity "&amp;Ne".
Regards
Ashes
In-reply-to: Your message of Thu, 27 Aug 1998 11:21:12 -0400."
True this is not implemented yet.
No, it's a bug in password field management. We're working on it.
Regards
Irene.
