Comments (part 1) on:
The page I experimented with is at
(It still needs work)
I realise that the [Shortcut] link is for accessibility reasons, but it
confused me for a while. It is really not useful for the sighted reader, and
will confuse a lot of people, I am sure.
Is there no way we can hide it in the markup, so that accessible user agents
see it, and no one else has to be confronted with it?
Does an empty a with a title work? a href="#latest" accesskey="j"
title="Latest message" /a .
I'm a big believer in maximising the content and minimising the wasted
space. How about moving the icon into the h1 (and making the h1
class="head")? The icon positioning would need to be adjusted, but it gives
at least three more lines of real content.
Visually I don't think the hr/ is needed at the top. The search box and
the following headings already break it up visually.
Visually I feel the table needs to be indented a little
I think "re-sorted" should just be "sorted"
Move the "by" into the header, so it reads "sorted by", and then the columns
are just thread, author, and subject.
Move the em from the th s into the stylesheet.
The 'title's of the links are inconsistent. I would make them "March 2002 by
date", "March 2002 by thread", "March 2002 by author", "March 2002 by
subject".
There are empty rows between the December and the January rows of the
tables. Apparently this is to signal a change of year, but visually this is
very subtle, and I'm guessing it's not that useful from an accessibility
point of view either. How about having a tbody for each year with a
suitable title:
tbody title="2002" ...
tbody title="2001" ...
this handles the accessibility. Now the visual. Hmm neither Opera nor
Netscape 6 seem to do margins or borders on tbody . That still needs work.
There should be no br/ after the address tag at the bottom.
I'm not sure of the value of the extra help link at the bottom (it is
already at the top). I'm guessing that it would be more useful if the
accesskey was on the top link, not the bottom one. Is there a reason that
the accesskey for help is a capital H, and all the other ones lower-case?
Steven
le mer 27-03-2002 ? 13:58, Steven Pemberton a ?crit :
I don't know if an empty a would work... Al?
Ian has made a suggestion to have a navigation bar in the index page
too, and instead of the "shortcut" title, it would be something like
"Latest message" which would propably make more sense? Otherwise, we
could still hide it with a CSS rule.
Well, an icon inside a h1 is defined as follow according to our house
style guide (http://www.w3.org/Project/HouseStyle.html team only):
For the home page of an area or subarea, Inside and at the start of the
H1, put a large image connected wit the icon or else the icon itself.
This is the defining occurence of the icon.
I would rather add a CSS rule to make the icon float on the left.
Anyway, very good suggestion regarding minimizing the wasted space.
Indeed, I'll remove it.
Do you mean there should be more space on the left?
The re-sorted title has been suggested as being clearer for accessible
reasons.
Same as above.
Good point.
The current titles have been suggested by Al. Al, what do you think? I
think having the word "messages" is clearer for those that have it read
by their browser.
I hadn't noticed the empty row, and I like your suggestion of 2 tbody.
Regarding visual appearance, I hope this can be handled through CSS.
Good point, will fix.
Regarding the help link at the bottom, it's not the same as the one at
the top (one is for the mail search engine, the other is for the
archives). It might be moved on the top if we follow Ian's suggestions
(sorry, these are not yet on wai-xtech, I hope they'll be soon).
Thanks a lot for your very careful reading and your very good comments!
[I'll follow up on the other parts on the corresponding messages]
Dom
Dominique Haza?l-Massieux - http://www.w3.org/People/Dom/
W3C's Webmaster
Yes.
reasons.
I would like to have *that* explained to me! At the point we are at in the
hierarchy, we aren't looking at anything sorted. If we were in a sorted
list, then re-sorted would be fine, but we aren't yet.
columns
I can believe that one a bit more, though I doubt accessibility is really
improved at this micro-level.
2002 by
I don't care, as long as they are consistent. Currently they are:
title="August 2001 messages listed by author"
title="August 2001 threads of discussion"
title="August 2001 messages listed by subject"
I had hoped that too. But I couldn't get it to work. That was what I meant
with my comment:
work.
Steven
le jeu 28-03-2002 ? 13:21, Steven Pemberton a ?crit :
I don't have any good argument for this. Once again, this was proposed
by other people than me.
It really is: most people using aural browsers go from link to link (vs
reading the full web page) and a link saying "by thread" is a little
more informative than "thread".
I see, I hadn't understood it that way. Hmm... I don't see that as a too
big problem though.
Dom
Dominique Haza?l-Massieux - http://www.w3.org/People/Dom/
W3C's Webmaster
