EOWG:
A preliminary agenda for our 13 June 2003 teleconference follows.
Time: 8:30am - 10:30am US Eastern Time
Bridge: (Zakim): +1 617 761 6200
conference code EOWG# (3694#)
AGENDA:
1. Outreach Updates (brief)
-- please send to EOWG mailing list in advance when possible
2. Meeting &amp; event planning for July 2003 in California
-- updates &amp; remaining planning questions
3. Discussion of face-to-face meeting &amp; best practice training exchange
possibilities in Europe
-- possible dates &amp; combinations of events
4. (If time &amp; materials preparation allows...)
-- reviewing another piece of "building the case"
MINUTES from last meeting:
Regards,
- Judy &amp; Shawn
Judy Brewer +1.617.258.9741 http://www.w3.org/WAI
Director, Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI), World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)
MIT/LCS Room NE43-355, 200 Technology Square, Cambridge, MA, 02139, USA
Regarding the discussion about the possible Europe meeting in September, in
todays phone meeting.
I would like to suggest the possibility of a meeting here in Spain. The
ONCE Foundation would organise the logistics of the meeting. Confortel
(www.confortelhoteles.com) is a chain of hotels, part of the ONCE
Corporation, which I believe would give us a very favorable rate, and are
all designed for accessibility and accustomed to organising events for
disability groups.
Alan Chuter
Accessibility Consultant
Fundosa Teleservicios (Fundosa Nuevas Tecnolog?as)
achuter@teleservicios.com
Dear all,
I think I've already asked you if using IRC channel in the EO meetings
could improve understanding and so communication for some of us (you know
who I mean :-) ... but I ask again.
I used 2 days ago IceChat (http://www.icechat.net/) for a
EuroAccessibility phone meeting. We had a phone meeting through a phone
platform (like the EO meetings) and on side we were all connected to an
IRC server.
As some people type faster than light speed (WAI training ?), all
participants could read on line and on time what everyone said: it is no
more than the minutes typing by someone (like the EO meetings). At the end
of the meeting, you juste make a "Copy and Paste" action and you keep the
minutes (waiting for the official ones with a summary of decisions taken).
I can tell you that for people who are not native English speaker, it is
WONDERFUL. I know that one topic could be : is there an accessible IRC
interface somewhere ? If not, I'm sure it is not so hard to develop.
Reading English is much easier than listening.
best,
Pierre GUILLOU
Accessibilit? du Web
Association BrailleNet
www.braillenet.org
www.accessiweb.org
www.euroaccessibility.org
pierre.guillou@snv.jussieu.fr
Pierre, I can use IRC during the meeting. What server/channel did we use
for the EA meeting? If you let me know I'll try to join.
Alan
On Fri, 13 Jun 2003 09:56:06 +0200 (CEST), Pierre GUILLOU
Alan Chuter
Accessibility Consultant
Fundosa Teleservicios (Fundosa Nuevas Tecnolog?as)
achuter@teleservicios.com
That's very nice. I appreciate a lot.
We used irc.freenode.net from http://freenode.net/
pierre
My regrets for the 13 June teleconference.
Chuck Letourneau
Starling Access Services
"Access A World Of Possibility"
Sorry... I am unable to join the call today.
Regards,
Sailesh
Pierre,
do we have anyone who regularly drives during conference calls?
I am always also asking for IRC, it is very helpful for me.
it helps avoid typos in URIs for one, and should help the minute taker.
only one person can speak, but many can type, and most can read as well.
I'd like it for every conference call.
thanks
Jonathan
Dear all,
in http://www.w3.org/WAI/EO/2003/07-eowg-agenda.html, it is written:
From San Jose Airport via Highway 101 to the meeting site:
Follow the signs to highway ......
B. From San Francisco Airport via Highway 101 to the meeting site:
Follow the signs to highway .....
Does it mean that there is no direct bus to the hostel ?
Other solution could be: I catch a taxi . Do you know prices for both
solutions A and B ?
Another question: what is the best airport for going then to hostel (in
terms of time and money) ?
thank you very much for your answers as I have to buy my flight ticket by
the end of the week.
Best,
Pierre
Pierre &amp; all,
I just confirmed with the hotel that San Fransisco (SFO) and San Jose
group taxi) are available between both airports and hotel for about
$20-$30, and a taxi will cost about $50-$60.
I'm pretty sure that HP and Wells Fargo are providing shuttle service
between the hotel and the meeting venues for the three days.
If you have urgent questions, please e-mail me directly at shawn@w3.org.
~Shawn
