As a result of the discussions at the Memphis IETF meeting and WWW6, a new
version of the PEP draft has been submitted as an ID. I have attached the
draft to this mail.
You can also find the draft as an W3C working draft at
Please read and comment!
Thanks,
Henrik
Henrik Frystyk Nielsen, frystyk@w3.org
World Wide Web Consortium, MIT/LCS NE43-346
545 Technology Square, Cambridge MA 02139, USA
I was just sitting down to read through the 23 or so pages of the PEP
draft when I asked myself "Why?" My original interest in PEP was caused
by my work in DAV where I needed to extend HTTP in all sorts of
interesting ways without breaking anything. In the end however, I
discovered the whole effort was largely for not because PEP only works
if everyone supports it and currently, no one supports it. This would be
the famous chicken and egg problem.
However I did spend some time thinking about what the world would look
like if PEP did exist and the answer is "expensive". Having to send
along a bag with all those options, not to mention writing all the
supporting code, just seems like maximum overkill. The solution we are
using in DAV is to have clients look up a particular attribute to see if
a set of features are supported. Once you have attributes, PEP becomes
largely irrelevant.
I realize that PEP is a lot more powerful than a simple "check the
switch" solution but in all the real world scenarios I am looking at,
such as deploying DAV, I don't seem to need anything more than the
attribute. Has someone else had a different experience?
Thanks,
Yaron
While I agree with the particular points I don't agree with the conclusion.
I believe that the problems with PEP could be solved by abandoning the
idea of sending meta-protocol information along with the connection
data.
Instead of doing this I would like to see a single tag to define the
semantics of any x-tended headers and how proxies should deal with them.
The tag would be of the form :-
PEP-Extension: version url
Where version is the version of the PEP specification format and uri is
the location (yes it is a location in this case) where the specification
can be downloaded from.
I understand that there are occasions in which this will not work such
as intranets not connected to the Internet and intergalactic spacecraft.
I think that attempting to address these corner cases by sending a
couple of hundred bytes of verbiage along with every message is a bit
broken and unlikely to fly in any case.
PEP only specifies the grammar of the protocol, not the semantics. It
can only solve the problem of proxies and other intermediaries that need
to know something about the tags being passed.
I think the problem of extending the protocols has mainly been that until
recently there have not been clients that are extendable. NCSA Mosaic
has been a long time withering on the vine. I think that the new generation
of clients may solve many of the percieved problems.
Phill
"Corner Cases"? Some of my best friends work with intergalactic
spacecraft. Not to mention intranets....
regards,
Ted Hardie
NASA NIC
