Comments Please
The General Principles should be Number 1 or a preamble rather than 2 in
hierarchy of the guidelines to stress their importance and seminal basis for
the guidelines that follow them.
As General Principles, it was decided that they should be general-we
attempted to remove references to specific techniques or guidelines that are
covered in-depth in the guidelines.
General principles of accessible design
The guidelines in this document have been organized around the following
general principles of accessible user agent (browser) design:
1. UA has an Accessible User Interface
1.1 The UA provides the same means of use (is accessible and usable) for all
users: identical whenever possible; equivalent when not.
1.2 The UA design accommodates a wide range of individual preferences and
abilities such as: redundancy of controls, menu and keyboard equivalents, no
mouse only controls.
1.3 Controls are arranged consistent with their importance.
1.4 Provides effective prompting and feedback during and after task
completion.
1.5 Allows the user to customize or configure the UA controls to meet their
needs.
1.6 UA interface is easy to understand, regardless of the user's experience,
knowledge, language skills, or current concentration level.
1.7 Uses different modes (pictorial or verbal) for redundant presentation of
controls.
1.8 Differentiates control elements in ways that can be described (i.e.,
make it easy to give instructions or directions).
1.9 Provides compatibility with a variety of techniques or "third-party
assistive technology" devices.
2. The UA renders information in an accessible form:
2.1 UA provides multiple user customizable modes of output (information
rendering) to meet their needs.
2.2 Provides access to and selection of all alternate representations of
information within a web page.
2.3 Allow users to override author/UA presentation modes.
2.4 Allow redundant (multiple) methods of document navigation. At a minimum,
provide navigation through keyboard at all times.
2.5 Provide web page orientation information (overview-# of links, # of
images, etc.) so the user can quickly grasp content and context.(this one
may be too specific, can't find the "general way" to say it.)
Kitch and Jim
Note: this is not necessary a specific suggestion as to what the
UA guidelines should say. I am going to make some comments based
on the draft summary and other things that are happening besides
publishing a guidelines document.
to follow up on what James Allan said:
The XML working group has recently reorganized and spawned
several new working groups. The WAI-PF is preparing to make
inputs to their requirements definition process.
There are requirements that you have been discussing in terms of
what the user need for an accessible dialog. It will take some
dialog with the DOM, XML, and RDF workers in the W3C working
groups to figure out how these requirements are reflected in
requirements for the various component technologies of the web.
But let's start with the user dialog.
*** Methods for a robust or accessible user interface
What I would have said as a summary would be more descriptive of
what methods the user needs, that is to say more descriptive than
"several different" presentation modes. I would say that we are
looking for some independent capability at the client to "pan,
zoom and rotate" the user's logical view into the information web
that the WWW offers.
Pan:
This is to move from one view to a parallel view of the same
general kind, but with a different starting point or location.
** Web capabilities to pan over the information include:
Good: follow hyperlinks
Better: step through clickables, page-up or page-down and go-to-page.
Best: navigate in terms of table cells and document sections.
** Web capabilities to zoom the user's viewport:
read contents of clickable element (anchor or form field).
read contents of clickable in context (add label or TH abbreviation
to the readout method).
page overview.
read table cell.
read table cell cell in logical context.
zoom to fit peephole: zoom browser presentation so an element
such as a table, cell or image just fits the current screen
magnifier visible region
** Web capabilities to rotate the user's viewport
this can include emphasis or de-emphasis based on either
physical control and display dimensions or cognitive
content dimensions.
substitute ALT text for image
control display/non-display of various media classes as in
caption control for SMIL
expand acronyms
substitute phonetic text for standard spelling when TTS is in effect.
re-flow table to list structure.
control use-TH vs. use-ABBR in table cell readout.
*** How this affects requirements for Web technology.
Note: all the examples I discussed above affect display. There is a
whole parallel development of how the control device needs to be
substitutable to something that the user can manipulate.
One key concept is what I have here called "zoom" control or
what at other times we have talked about as "chunking." The
point is that the author's chunking of the content is not
sufficient for all users. Users need the capability to
override the chunking of the information into "documents" and
be able to deal with a dialog which has a client-side-controlled
horizon for how much of the document is considered as the
immediate neighborhood of here and now.
For example, if you pick an H3 as the root of the current
neighborhood, then the table of contents of the document down to
the H3 level could become part of the logical navigation bar or
"nearby" vicinity.
In the past, the definers of Web formats have tended to assume
that the author's chunking is OK as a one-size-fits-all permanent
decision. In talking about what the future might do better,
I would be inclined to raise this as an area where they should
try harder.
I hope that this fits with your understanding, that chunking on
more levels than just the HTML or XML document is in general
needed to meet the needs of people with disabilities.
Al
Thanks Jim,
I will look at it and incorporate it into the new version of the guidelines.
Jon
Jon Gunderson, Ph.D., ATP
Coordinator of Assistive Communication and Information Technology
Division of Rehabilitation - Education Services
University of Illinois at Urbana/Champaign
1207 S. Oak Street
Champaign, IL 61820
Voice: 217-244-5870
E-mail: jongund@uiuc.edu
WWW:http://www.staff.uiuc.edu/~jongund
