1) I would posit that an ALT text that is 65536 characters in length
should probably have been done as a LONGDESC. (grin)
2) I concur with the train of though that ALT and LONGDESC will see
little use until they are easily and VISIBLY supported in the tools
used to create web pages. Jutta and crew are busy on this one.
We ALL need to encourage tool makers to do this.
3) I think the best way to support LONGDESC in a browser is to
- have the browser add a small pretty graphic icon with a D on it next
to any graphic with a LONGDESC.
- The browser can also have a setting which allows a user to HIDE
D-LINKS or HIDE GRAPHIC DESCRIPTION MARKERS (D) so that anyone who
doesn't like them doesn't have to see them. (they could always see if
there was a LONGDESC and jump to it by right clicking on an icon and
looking at the pop up menu).
- If a page has a LONGDESC and an old fashioned D-LINK, then the
browser could see that they pointed to the same place and hide the old
fashioned D-LINK (or the new one - no matter)
- Screen readers could recognize the LONGDESC Graphic (it would always
be a graphic since it was put there by the browser, not the html page)
and either pronounce it or skip it when reading, preferably at the
users choice. (remember the user can cause them to not be displayed
if they like anyway)
Just some thoughts as of today.
Gregg
Not true. I've had ALT text in Internet Explorer longer than 3K
characters. SGML/HTML do not define a maximum length.
Not true. Although not usually enforced, HTML's SGML declaration
*does* define a maximum length (see
ATTSPLEN 65536
This limits the total length of attribute names and values, as
contained in the start-tag, to 2^16 characters.
LITLEN 65536
This limits the length of any one attribute literal to 2^16
characters.
-Chris
I am not sure adding the D-Link to an image with a LONGDESC will be
accepted by designers. When this was brought up before it was shot down as
being unacceptable to WWW authors who would not like to see D on or around
their images. I think that LONGDESCs should be more like ALT text. A user
setable option would turn long descriptions on and it would appear as
inserted HTML in the document.
Using the DOM the assistive technology could always automatically access
the LONGDESC and do what ever the assistive technology vendor wants to do
with it.
Jon
Not true. I've had ALT text in Internet Explorer longer than 3K
characters. SGML/HTML do not define a maximum length.
Jon Gunderson, Ph.D., ATP
Coordinator of Assistive Communication and Information Technology
Division of Rehabilitation - Education Services
University of Illinois at Urbana/Champaign
1207 S. Oak Street
Champaign, IL 61820
Voice: 217-244-5870
E-mail: jongund@uiuc.edu
WWW:http://www.staff.uiuc.edu/~jongund
I am not sure adding the D-Link to an image with a LONGDESC will be
accepted by designers. When this was brought up before it was shot
down as
being unacceptable to WWW authors who would not like to see D on or
around
their images. I think that LONGDESCs should be more like ALT text. A
user
setable option would turn long descriptions on and it would appear as
inserted HTML in the document.
Using the DOM the assistive technology could always automatically
access
the LONGDESC and do what ever the assistive technology vendor wants to
do
with it.
Gv: Couple of thoughts on this
GV: Remember that LONGDESC does not contain a long description - or
any text. It contains a URL. Thus it is a link to information...
not information itself
GV: The suggestion I made below was that the user have the option of
deciding whether a browser would place a small icon next to picture
that a person could "click on" to send for a description - or - not
have any icon present. (which is what could be the default behavior
of the browser). Thus no one would see the little "D's" unless they
set their browser to show them.
GV: Having LONGDESC without a D-LINK (old kind) is not be of any
benefit until browsers support LONGDESC. That may be awhile - so I'm
not sure if we want to put that forward as helping today. If both
are put in then the D-LINK would work for old browsers and it would
disappear when the new browsers came on line (if the browsers were
done as suggested). It would only be recommended though, so that
no-one who doesn't want to use D-LINKS would have to. It would just
be a recommendation for those who wanted to take the extra effort to
do so.
GV: One disadvantage of the approach I described is that the page
will lay out slightly differently if the graphic D's are show or not.
This may not be a big problem since people look at the pages with so
many different sized screens that it lays out differently for them
anyway... But it is something to think about.
GV: I don't think very many people would ever want LONGDESCs inserted
into the text of a page as a regular event. LONGDESCs are usually
detailed information that a person occasionally wants to look at.. but
usually doesn't want to read again. For example, you might be
interested in the description of the logo for a company but would not
want the description to be inserted into the running text wherever it
occurred.
GV: And all of these are just thoughts to keep us thinking an moving
forward.
Your thoughts?
Gregg
next
if
old
always
page)
Not true. I've had ALT text in Internet Explorer longer than 3K
characters. SGML/HTML do not define a maximum length.
Jon Gunderson, Ph.D., ATP
Coordinator of Assistive Communication and Information Technology
Division of Rehabilitation - Education Services
University of Illinois at Urbana/Champaign
1207 S. Oak Street
Champaign, IL 61820
Voice: 217-244-5870
E-mail: jongund@uiuc.edu
WWW:http://www.staff.uiuc.edu/~jongund
JRG: Right, but the description information in the BODY of the URL could be
inserted into the document. Just like the data in an image file URL is
formed into a picture and inserted into the document.
JRG: In some cases, like especially learning disabilities, I think having
the image and the LONGDESC information on one page is desirable. If the
only way to access LONGDESC information was to open a new document, there
would be less integration of the information.
JRG: I don't think this should be too much of a problem. HTML is suppose
to be display independent (grin) and if somebody turns on a feature to
access long description information, they will be expecting some type of
accessibility problem.
JRG: My main concern, as stated before, having the LONGDESC information and
the original IMAGE displayed simultaneously is useful to some people with
learning disabilities and TBI's. The D-Link solution provides a level of
backward compatibility which is good for incouraging the inclusion of
D-Links now. In reality the LONGDESC will probably be used in situations
where the author is less concerned about visual formatting and so the
display of the D-Link will not be visually disruptive. For example images
used in highly formatted menus only need ALT text to convey the links, but
a graph of information that could benefit froma LONGDESC is probably not
going to be part of a high formatted structure.
Do we need to have two ways (or other ways) of rendering LONGDESC
information.
1. Put in a D-Link if the user selects a browser option that they want to
view LONGDESC information.
2. Insert LONGDESC information into the current document so that the
LONGDESC information could be viewed simultaneously with the image it
describes.
What do people think?
Jon Gunderson, Ph.D., ATP
Coordinator of Assistive Communication and Information Technology
Division of Rehabilitation - Education Services
University of Illinois at Urbana/Champaign
1207 S. Oak Street
Champaign, IL 61820
Voice: 217-244-5870
E-mail: jongund@uiuc.edu
WWW:http://www.staff.uiuc.edu/~jongund
options are always good. I don't have a third way but it seems there
should be one. I'd probably like to see the long desc automatically
effixed if immages are off but retain the d-link as is said for backward
compatability.
I also have some feeling and this seems contrary to what I said that I'd
like to be able to view the info on the graphic say long desc
independantly sometimes. sometimes, I want to skip it, sometimes, I want
to come back to it.
sorry for the confusion.
Hands-On-Technolog(eye)s
touching the internet
voice: 1-(301) 949-7599
poehlman@clark.net
ftp://ftp.clark.net/pub/poehlman
Lynx should, by default, hide D-links unless the user explicitly
requests them (with some command key). When shown, the D-links could
probably just be "[D]" to minimize the visual disruption.
YES! And that is the way regular browsers should operate as well.
Gregg Van
