I may have really stepped into this time. I hoping you all can help me
out.
Part of my job duties involve supporting our employees who use assistive
technology, notably screen readers. There is a new (federally sponsored)
program to allow staff to participate in a online masters degree program at
George Washington University. The problem is that GWU web site is a good
model of inaccessible design. The "courseware" program is some customized
application developed in house (at GWU) that requires a certain browser
(for compatibility with poorly written JavaScript I believe). Most of the
require reading materials will be distributed as PDF files.
My boss's boss's boss (the head of our agency) recognizes the importance of
accessibility and the validity of the WCAG, and appreciates how ridiculous
it would be to use traditional volunteer book readers to transcript a
supposedly electronic course. Despite my best efforts, he does not believe
that a university's requirement for certain versions of certain software on
the client end is unreasonable, or in violation of the WCAG.
My needs (as I perceive them) are as follows:
1) What is the most succinct way to argue that requiring a certain browser
IS in violation of the WCAG?
2) Can anyone refer me to university accredited on-line classes that are
accessible with Lynx or pwWebSpeak?
In the meantime, I will be trying to upgrade the software for the one user
in question. (She is currently very happy with MS IE 3x and Artic
WinVision. WinVision, however, is not currently compatible with IE 4x and
Arctic makes no promises about compatibility with ANY versions of Netscape
Navigator.) This will not help at all when it comes to the PDF files --
which are images of text -- access.adobe will be useless. I am advocating
that, in the meantime, the user make extensive use of disabled student
services. I am also (going through channels this time) trying to get this
issue on the radar of appropriate folks at GWU. Anybody know the president
there? grin We have a little time, the class does not actually start
until the end of August.
The courseware registration page is at:
front door -- but it is not compatible with IE 3x nor Lynx (nor pwWebSpeak
I would guess).
The pages at GWU warrant inspection -- they at least let one know that this
problem is endemic to the whole institution:
Thank you very much.
Bruce Bailey,
Maryland State Department of Education, Division of Rehabilitation Services
410/554-9211
I don't know if this was posted here or not. It doesn't answer the
question directly but it certainly sounds like this online program goes
against what this letter implies a university should be doing.
April 20, 1999
Robert C. Maxson
President
California State University, Long Beach
1250 Bellflower Blvd
Long Beach, CA 90840
(In reply, please refer to Docket Number 09-99-2041.)
Dear President Maxson:
On December 17, 1998, the U.S. Department of Education (Department), Office
for Civil Rights (OCR), received a complaint alleging that the California
State University, Long Beach (University) failed to provide a student with
the accommodations required by her disability (blindness) in order to
access the College of Business curriculum and other educational programs.
OCR has jurisdiction over the subject matter of this complaint and over the
University under both Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973
(Section 504) and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities (Title II),
which prohibit recipients of Department funds and/or public institutions,
respectively, from discriminating against persons with disabilities.
Specifically, the complainant alleges that:
1) The computer laboratories/classes in the College of Business are not
equipped with adaptive technology so that she can take courses such as
Business and Information Systems, which is a prerequisite to her obtaining
a Bachelor of Science degree in her major Business Management.
2) Her course assigned textbooks, which contain substantial amounts of
graphs and charts, were not made accessible to her.
3) With respect to a particular Business Management course, the instructor
refused to provide her access to overhead transparencies and to implement
the appropriate accommodations for the course's final examination.
4) The doors of the offices of the College instructors are not marked in a
manner that enable her to identify the occupant instructor.
Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (Title II) requires
a public college to take appropriate steps to ensure that communications
with persons with disabilities "are as effective as communications with
others" [28 C.F.R. ' 35.160(a)]. OCR has repeatedly held that the terms
"communication" in this context means the transfer of information,
including (but not limited to) the verbal presentation of a lecturer, the
printed text of a book, and the resources of the Internet. Title II
further states that, in determining what type of auxiliary aid and service
is necessary, a public college shall give primary consideration to the
requests of the individual with a disability [28 C.F.R. ' 35.160(b)(2)].
In construing the conditions under which communication is "as effective as"
that provided to nondisabled persons, on several occasions OCR has held
that the three basic components of effectiveness are timeliness of
delivery, accuracy of the translation, and provision in a manner and medium
appropriate to the significance of the message and the abilities of the
individual with the disability.
The courts have held that a public entity violates its obligations under
the Americans with Disabilities Act when it simply responds to individual
requests for accommodation on an ad-hoc basis. A public entity has an
affirmative duty to establish a comprehensive policy in compliance with
Title II in advance of any request for auxiliary aids or services [see
Tyler v. City of Manhattan, 857 F. Supp. 800 (D.Kan. 1994)]. A recognized
good practice in establishing such a comprehensive policy is to consult
with the disability community, especially those members most likely to
request accommodations.
As universities have striven to provide effective communication to students
with disabilities with respect to computer technology, traditionally the
academic community has relied heavily on a single centralized unit on
campus to house and maintain the specialized adaptive technology equipment.
This practice has been seen as a method for enabling a small number of
staff with adaptive technology expertise to serve a relatively large number
of students with disabilities. However, such sole reliance upon a single
centralized location (when not limited to adaptive technology training, but
instead used for instructing disabled students in course subject matter)
may run counter to the strong philosophy embodied in Title II and Section
504 regarding the importance of fully integrating students with
disabilities into the mainstream educational program, unless such services
cannot be otherwise effectively provided [see 34 C.F.R. ' 104.4(b)(iv); 28
C.F.R. ' 35.130(b)(iv)]. Thus OCR assumes in most cases computer access
will be effectively provided to the student with the disability in an
educational setting with his or her nondisabled peers and classmates at the
various computer laboratory sites scattered throughout the campus.
In most OCR cases, at any point prior to completion of the investigative
stage of the case, the college may indicate that it is interested in
exploring voluntary resolution of the issues identified in the case. A
commitment by the University to voluntarily resolve the issues usually
substantially reduces the necessity for further investigation and may
eliminate the need for OCR findings of compliance and/or noncompliance. In
this case, the University elected to proceed toward voluntary resolution.
By letter received April 1, 1999, the University provided OCR with a
voluntary resolution plan which resolves the issues raised in this case.
This plan includes the following commitments (as well as others): The
University will:
1) Develop and implement a written procedure describing which campus units
are responsible for installing and maintaining adaptive workstations
situated in College and central computer laboratories.
2) Develop and implement a systematic method for ensuring that the issue of
accessibility to persons with disabilities, particularly blind persons, is
taken into account when colleges purchase computer technology (software and
hardware).
3) Develop and implement a systematic method for informing campus employees
who design/select web pages for use by students to make sure the web pages
are in accordance with principles known to maximize accessibility to users
with disabilities, including visual impairments.
If you have further questions regarding this letter, please contact Sarah
Hawthorne, Civil Rights Attorney, at (415) 556-4146.
Sincerely,
Robert E. Scott
Team Leader
Office for Civil Rights
Page 3 - (09-99-2041)
Your only sin is talking about something that is uncomfortable, like the
kid who outed the emperor's new clothes.
Don't diss the script writers. I hear consistently from independent
sources that the Netscape dialect of JavaScript is much better for these
purposes.
The problem is that we laid this one between the lines. This does not
violate the WCAG, per se. It violates the whole point of the WCAG, which
is technical checks which will ensure that you don't need to standardize
the client.
The explicit WCAG violations are at a lower level; such as all those pages
that don't work with scripts turned off. That is a clear chapter and verse
violation.
However, this is not the argument that your UberBoss needs to hear. He
needs to understand the actual problem. The actual problem is that for the
blind user, the browser is not the user interface, the screen reader is.
And while WIMP browsers are interchangeable with minor annoyance, screen
readers are a whole different kettle of fish. Learning the screen reader
User Interface is a major cognitive investment and it doesn't work if you
can't do it by heart. You can't just slide over to the screen reader that
happens to work with browser X and keep working. That is why it is
essential for this class of disabled users that the content be standardized
in a client-neutral way at the browser input.
We never laid that out in detail because as the W3C it is indelicate for us
to name names of products of members. And to talk about the lack of
mix-and-match at the browser-screen-reader interface one would have to name
names of browser products from W3C members. So the browser-neutral
principle is in the assumptions, not the letter, of the WCAG.
Hi Bruce,
We develop, maintain, and instruct several accredited online courses at
the University of New Brunswick. The courses are accessible with lynx and
should be with pwWebSpeak. However, they are password protected. If you
would like temporary access email me personally and I will set you up with
an account to view them.
Rhonda Vandine (CSpace)Community Access Canada
E-mail: rvandine@unb.caMarshall d'Avray Hall, UNB
To produce web content which requires a particular browser (does not
transform gracefully across platforms) is a violation of one of the basic
principles of Web Content Accessibility Guidelines.
It sounds like particular violations in this case include checkpoints 6.3 and
11.4 (both priority 1, and 11.4 is the "at last resort" checkpoint), and
probably a number of others.
The rest of the problem is a one which, in Australia I would take up as a
discrimination complaint - and the letter posted about such a complaint under
US law would be a beter guide to the situation that my own knowledge
(although professional advice would of course be better again, and is
strongly encouraged).
I hope the answers given have helped.
charles
I may have really stepped into this time. I hoping you all can help me
out.
