WAI UA Telecon for September 23rd, 1998
!! Note time and phone number !!
Chair: Jon Gunderson
Date: Wednesday, September 23rd
Time:
12:00 EST
11:00 CST
10:00 MST
9:00 PST
Call-in: (+1) 617/258-7910
Agenda
12:00-12:30 Frames
12:30-1:00 Embedded applications and DHTML Scipting
Jon Gunderson, Ph.D., ATP
Coordinator of Assistive Communication and Information Technology
Division of Rehabilitation - Education Services
University of Illinois at Urbana/Champaign
1207 S. Oak Street
Champaign, IL 61820
Voice: 217-244-5870
E-mail: jongund@uiuc.edu
WWW:http://www.staff.uiuc.edu/~jongund
Thank you for your comments and I will post them to the list.
Jon
Hi Jon,
I am hosting my swedish Daisy development team here in Trenton and have a
schedule conflict today that will prevent me from participating in the
conference today.
I wanted to at least enter some comments about frames:
How a user agent implements frames is less important than the authoring
issues. From the UA point of view:
1. Structure of frameset must be exposed (number of frames, etc).
2. Frames titles /longdesc need to be exposed to user
3. Navigation between frames needs to be supported
4. Determining where user is in a frameset must be easily determined
Beyond that, the rest is authoring guidelines, in my mind.
Mark
Jon Gunderson, Ph.D., ATP
Coordinator of Assistive Communication and Information Technology
Division of Rehabilitation - Education Services
University of Illinois at Urbana/Champaign
1207 S. Oak Street
Champaign, IL 61820
Voice: 217-244-5870
E-mail: jongund@uiuc.edu
WWW:http://www.staff.uiuc.edu/~jongund
to follow up on what Mark Hakkinen said:
How a user agent implements frames is less important than the authoring
issues. From the UA point of view:
1. Structure of frameset must be exposed (number of frames, etc).
2. Frames titles /longdesc need to be exposed to user
3. Navigation between frames needs to be supported
4. Determining where user is in a frameset must be easily determined
Beyond that, the rest is authoring guidelines, in my mind.
What information does pwWebSpeak use to satisfy requirement
number 4? It seems to me that the solutions for number 1
and 4 have to correspond, and that there is no precedent with
"specification" status that we can follow, here.
There is no defined URL syntax IIRC for where you are in a
frameset, including the fact that frames may have been
overwritten by prior link activations.
As with tables, perhaps some additional markup would help in
unrolling the web of possible frame-state combinations into a
hierarchical list.
For example, the top frame is typically a masthead and does not
change throughout all states of the frameset. The bottom may
be another invariant frame. The left sidebar is likely to change
infrequently and have a unique value for each state of the main
frame. In that case there is a simple two-level hierarchical
list of the feasible states of the frameset:
Global properties across all states of the frameset:
top frame URL
[bottom frame URL]
Properties associated with the first level of decomposition
(outer sort):
URL to left sidebar frame contents
Properties associated with the second level of decomposition
(inner sort):
URL to contents of main frame.
If the frameset is programmed in this manner, then it can be
clearly described by a hierarchical table of contents [actually
states].
But the rules of framesets don't guarantee that simplicity AFAIK.
One would have to explore the state space by exercising the
frameset to be sure of any structure assumed for the reachable
states.
Al
Mark
