We want to separate structure and content on the one hand from presentation
on the other. Lets see if we all agree on which is which in a simple example.
Say I've surveyed people from various countries and ages to find out their
favorite movies. Consider these two versions of a web page:
version 1. H1 headings which are counties, H2 headings which are ages, and
body text within the H2 that says "Favorite movie is x"
version 2. H1 headings which are ages, H2 headings which are countries, and
the same body text.
Now, if you just look at the HTML, you'll say these are different
content/structure. However, you might also consider the underlying data as
the content and say that these are different presentations.
So are these (a) different content/structure or (b) different
presentations? Please answer (a) or (b) :-).
Can we get a consensus on this? I ask because if we can't get a consensus,
I think it shows we've got a problem with the guidelines.
Len
p.s.
Yes, I suppose there are echos here of some things Kynn has been saying...
Leonard R. Kasday, Ph.D.
Institute on Disabilities/UAP and Dept. of Electrical Engineering at Temple
University
(215) 204-2247 (voice) (800) 750-7428 (TTY)
Chair, W3C Web Accessibility Initiative Evaluation and Repair Tools Group
The WAVE web page accessibility evaluation assistant:
(a) (Different structuring of the same content). The data in this case is
the solid facts "County= Age= Movie". The structure is the marking up of the
three different parts using headings. *Presentation* would be adding extra
presentational data to make the definitions 'twixt content and structure
more clear.
It's two different logical assertions about the data, but the data doesn't
change. This is an ontology thing, whereby you have the same set of data,
but with different output relationships:-
[ County = Age | Movie ]
People in this county of age x like these movies.
[ Age = County | Movie ]
People in of this age in county x like these movies.
This *doesn't* change the data, the results (favourite movie overall etc.)
will remain the same. However, with CAM you have:-
County 1
Age Group1: Movie
Age Group2: Movie
County 2
Age Group1: Movie
Age Group2: Movie
But with ACM you have:-
Age Group1
County 1: Movie
County 2: Movie
Age Group2
County 1: Movie
County 2: Movie
The four results of favourite movie for each age/county group stay the same,
they are just presented in a different order. Note that this is like a table
of x and y variables. It doesn't matter if you swap around x and y to become
y and x.
I think what is implied by the guidelines is that presentation is a guide to
content. In other words, you should make sure that the h1/h2 headings are
clear, and that the data is marked up with keywords etc. All you are asking
us to do is to define what we mean by content/structure/presentation, as
implied by the title :-)
Content: Information/data.
Structure: Logical divisions within the content.
Presentation: Output styling to the structure.
My 2c/p/0.02euros
Kindest Regards,
Sean B. Palmer
"Perhaps, but let's not get bogged down in semantics."
- Homer J. Simpson, BABF07.
I don't mean to be copping out but I think the answer is "both". IOW the
same content can be both structured and presented in more than one way. Is
a pie chart different from a table or a bar graph or a... The content can
not only be presented in various ways, it can be structured in various
ways, but the *separated* content is still the content. The message is
*the* message. The medium is *a* message (almost unto itself).
The medium (presentation) includes variable structures. Most programming
tutorials used to start with "turn off your computer". In the same sense of
them trying to train you to begin with well-formed pseudo-code so a lot of
writing advice has to do with starting with an outline (structure) and
filling it in with content. The usual cliche is that 5 % of programmers
(writers) can program (write) without commenting (outlining) and 95 % of
programmers (writers) think they are part of that 5 %.
The possibility of getting individuals to change their long-ingrained
habits of "wysiwyging it" seems remote. The possibility of getting the
tools they use to make this innate in the process is more hopeful. E.g.
when someone puts up a centered, enlarged, specially enfonted phrase, it
might be heuristically determined that the intent is for this to be some
level of header. Same with all kinds of "presentational" devices, including
italics, bold, underlined, font changes, colorizations, etc., etc. The
tools must ask "you've just changed color here, does this mean anything?"
Potentially every markup element (even a "purely decorative" one) is
structural. Why did you put this excerpt from your text into a little box
over there under the style class of "sidebar". The jargon is that the
markup has meaning but the method used to emphasize/highlight/enhance it
is: presentation; under ultimate control of the user, even though a choice
is made by the author.
If I don't want anybody to ever see my stuff in other than "chilly font"
that's just tough. If I'm convinced that the purpose of my content's
communication is aborted by removal of "chilly font" then I'll just have to
explain that somewhere (metadata?). These are rare circumstances and are
even amenable to codification, e.g., when we read to a child saying "see
how 'brrrrr' has icicles dripping from the letters?" or to a blind child
"the author has illuminated the letters of 'brrrrr' with little icicles"
can be handled with some combination of content, alt, and/or longdesc.
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
This is a tricky question. The answer isn't a or b, as I see it.
There is data, and it is modelled. In both examples there is a data model,
represented as markup. In fact this is not, in my opinion, the best way t
mark up two-dimensional data - that is what tables are really really meant
for. So these are two different structured representations of a data model.
To be able to query them means that the model needs to be comprehensible -
prefereably not just visually. In both cases it is. If this data were
modelled in a table then it would be easy to use tablin to get different
views of it.
Cheers
Charles
We want to separate structure and content on the one hand from presentation
on the other. Lets see if we all agree on which is which in a simple example.
Say I've surveyed people from various countries and ages to find out their
favorite movies. Consider these two versions of a web page:
version 1. H1 headings which are counties, H2 headings which are ages, and
body text within the H2 that says "Favorite movie is x"
version 2. H1 headings which are ages, H2 headings which are countries, and
the same body text.
Now, if you just look at the HTML, you'll say these are different
content/structure. However, you might also consider the underlying data as
the content and say that these are different presentations.
So are these (a) different content/structure or (b) different
presentations? Please answer (a) or (b) :-).
Can we get a consensus on this? I ask because if we can't get a consensus,
I think it shows we've got a problem with the guidelines.
Len
p.s.
Yes, I suppose there are echos here of some things Kynn has been saying...
Leonard R. Kasday, Ph.D.
Institute on Disabilities/UAP and Dept. of Electrical Engineering at Temple
University
(215) 204-2247 (voice) (800) 750-7428 (TTY)
Chair, W3C Web Accessibility Initiative Evaluation and Repair Tools Group
The WAVE web page accessibility evaluation assistant:
W3C Web Accessibility Initiative http://www.w3.org/WAI
Location: I-cubed, 110 Victoria Street, Carlton VIC 3053, Australia
September - November 2000:
W3C INRIA, 2004 Route des Lucioles, BP 93, 06902 Sophia Antipolis Cedex, France
Len,
I'll take a stand on b)
The variances are presentation ... Presentation has it's own
structure, and this is structure of the presentation, not structure of the
content.
If I had the data in a pure database, such as Access, I would change these
variances in the "reports", not in any structure of the data itself.
Anne
example.
Anne L. Pemberton
apembert@crosslink.net
Enabling Support Foundation
They are different presentations of the same content, which is why
it is very useful to think of XHTML as a display language, not a
content language. A correct content language would be written in
XML and would not have "headings", which are simply one way of
translating content into a format which can be displayed on a
specific type of output agent -- a web browser.
This isn't the only way to display that content, or even the best
way to do it. This is presentation markup. All XHTML is presentation
markup. :)
So -- (b).
--Kynn
Kynn Bartlett kynn@idyllmtn.com
I see what Kynn means. I think the main hurdle here is actually defining
what:-
a) Content
b) Structure
c) Presentation
d) Style
e) Formatting
are, because there are so many different possible interpretations. We all
use them in different contexts, so we rarely agree on technicalities of
points, when for the most part we all agree on the ideas.
Example:
Sean said: (a) (Different structuring of the same content).
Kynn said: (b) (Different presentation of the same content).
But really we both *mean* the same thing, and we both used very similar
arguements.
I think we have to look into the fact that (X)HTML is a document markup
language - for marking up documents (presentationally for the most part). Of
course, some semantics were added at a later date.....and the other point of
confusion is how best to display data, XML style.....
If we could all agree on definitions of the above, we'd be half way there.
Kindest Regards,
Sean B. Palmer
"Perhaps, but let's not get bogged down in semantics."
- Homer J. Simpson, BABF07.
