I've done a pass through the whole document. There is now some purple text
to indicate technical issues, though not a lot and quite a lot more green text.
Brian
Hi Brian
I just wanted to pick up on the purple bits - all mine.
1: URI Ref
The URI Ref section is a mess - I tried to fix it and failed and reverted to
the previously published version that you've dissected.
For this publication, in your opinion, would it suffice to note that this
section is currently inadequate in the detail but captures the main intent;
or would you like me to have another go at making sense of it.
2: predicate *RDF* URI Reference
accept
3: Graph Equality
largely reject - change to
Two RDF graphs are equal if and only if they are isomorphic, as follows.
rationale:
- your term Graph Equality Isomorphism is ugly.
- standard usage is that XXX isomorphism preserves the structure of XXX.
thus an RDF Graph isomorphism preserves the structure of an RDF Graph.
This standard usage (largely) depends on a defn of an XXX isomorphism for
each XXX.
"respects" has a well-established meaning when discussing isomorphisms
and does not further clarification. FYI it indicates that the structure is
unaffected by the bijection.
If i is the isomorphism then i respects arc labels if and only if for any
arc a and any label l, l labels a = l labels i(a).
4: Charmod
(Not sure why this is purple ... I suppose this will be a substantive change
at last call).
As it says in the doc, Charmod is currently in last call, and, upon
examination of the I18N web site appears to be stalled awaiting advancement
of IRI-draft, which appears to be stalled since its author is too busy in
IRI-advocacy mode on the tag!
I am intending to formally propose the deletion of this para straight after
this publication. I feel that it is better to leave it in now so that when
we get last call comments from I18N about what happened to thbe early
uniform normalization (that is mentioned in M&amp;S) we point to this WD.
The failure of the I18N people to advance charmod really leaves us little
choice here.
Jeremy
PS Didn't you have any comments on the changelog?
I think it can go as is for now.
I think that deals with with the 'not all isomorphisms will do'
comment. Should be a colon on the end of that though.
raised eyebrow
for some notion of structure, but different isomorphisms can preserve
different aspects of the structure.
Well established where? In mathematical circles? You are not writing just
for mathematicians. I don't know what it means. If I am a member of the
intended audience of this document then a part of the intended audience is
not going to understand this bit.
I suggest saying this in the draft.
Why are there two revisions 1.2? :)
Brian
I could subscribe under most of Brian's comments. In particular, I agree
that the document can be shortened substantially. It's supposed to be a
spec...
I would suggest to keep Sec. 2 short and get to the 'meat' of the
document, the abstract data model, as soon as possible. Sec. 4 definitely
needs to be rearranged, e.g., in the way Brian suggested (top-down). The
graph model could be defined more concisely and a bit more formally.
I'd also move all business of XML syntax after the graph model has been
presented, or maybe into the syntax doc altogether.
Sec. 2.2, and 2.3 could possibly be reduced to one page each. Sec. 2.1
and 2.4 could be replaced by an introductory paragraph in Sec. 1 and 4,
respectively.
Sergey
