In my constant endeavour to provide my customers web services and interfaces
that are easy for all to access and use - your site has got to be the worst.
Navigation is terrible, there is so much jargon and gobbledegook it is
almost impossible to understand, clarity - there is none, there are broken
links, dead ends, no home page buttons, slow to download to mention a few of
the horrors.
What is level two (AA)? I have to comply with it and I have no idea how to
after 1/2 an hour of searching - a summary would be helpful, simple answers
would be wonderful. Where did the three click rule go?
We are talking about making websites accessible and easy to use by all - not
explaining the meaning of life.
I would be delighted if someone would call me to help me out - on the other
hand I would not be surprised if I did not hear a peep from you.
Frustrated but hopeful
Rory Musker
Business Development Manager
Epinet Ltd
Mobile: 07748 115 451
Developing the next generation of e-business solutions
www.epinet.co.uk
DISCLAIMER
This e-mail is confidential and intended solely for the use of the
individual to whom it is addressed. Any views or opinions presented are
solely those of the sender and should not be taken as representing the view
of Epinet Ltd. If you are not the intended recipient, be advised that you
have received this e-mail in error and that any use, dissemination,
forwarding, printing, or copying of this e-mail is strictly prohibited. If
you have received this e-mail in error please notify Epinet Ltd by telephone
Hello, Rory,
If you are looking for Web content accessibility, double-A
conformance is explained here:
Sorry you had trouble finding this.
Susan Lesch http://www.w3.org/People/Lesch/
World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) http://www.w3.org/
Hi Rory,
Sorry for the confusion. We are working to improve things like
navigation and consistency in the site. By all means if you find broken
links on the site, please let us know.
I think you are looking for the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines
(WCAG), produced by W3C's Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI). Here are
some helpful links.
1) WAI home page
2) WCAG 1.0, a W3C Recommendation
Level "AA" means that you satisfy a set of requirements in WCAG.
Please see that document for what the requirements are.
3) WCAG 2.0, a new version in development (not yet stable!)
4) The home page of the Working Group who is developing the
Web Content Accessibility Guidelines
5) Getting started making a Web site accessible
I hope this helps.
_ Ian
Ian Jacobs (ij@w3.org) http://www.w3.org/People/Jacobs
