Guys, in the interests of full disclosure, here's a summary of the
changes made to the semantics document in the last few days. I
actually think that this is now *all*.
1. Section subheadings added/changed as per
2. "name" now includes plain literals, so vocabularies (= sets of
names) also may contain plain literals. They are not obliged to, so
all old vocabularies are still new vocabularies.
3. 'proper instance' now allows substitution of a plain literal for a bnode.
4. semantic conditions on simple interpretations of a vocabulary V
are now restricted to the plain literals in V (as they were formerly
for the URIs and typed literals. )
The effect of 2-4 is that all referring expressions (URIrefs and
literals) are treated uniformly, and interpretations of a graph are
only obliged to interpret the symbols which occur in the graph. All
of this is conventional and makes the RDF MT more 'normal'. For
justification of why it was needed, see Herman's recent comment on
the failure of the RDFS entailment lemma proof
(see "To give an example, let A be a URI reference" et seq)
No changes to any test cases or entailments arise.
5. minor editorial changes arising from 2-4 above, eg "name or plain
literal" - "name" in several places, and the example in figure 1 now
has the literals listed in its vocabulary explicitly.
6. Text added in 1.1 Technical note (Informative):
"Readers who are familiar with conventional logical semantics may
find it useful to think of RDF as a version of existential binary
relational logic in which relations are first-class entities in the
universe of quantification. Such a logic can be obtained by encoding
the relational atom R(a,b) into a conventional logical syntax, using
a notional three-place relation Triple(a,R,b); the basic semantic
described here can be reconstructed from this intuition by defining
the extension of y as the set { x,z : Triple(x,y,z)} and noting that
this would be precisely the denotation of R in the conventional
Tarskian model theory of the original form R(a,b) of the relational
atom. This construction can also be traced in the semantics of the
Lbase axiomatic description [LBASE]."
This point was raised by at least 3 people at ISWC and in other
working groups, so I thought it might be worth drawing attention to.
7. Other minor editorial suggested by Herman, eg "and A(E) is
defined" added in the third semantic condition table. None of these
change meanings, only clarify or correct errors.
8. The definitions of the Hebrand interpretations in the proof
appendix have been simplified somewhat, since they are no longer
required to interpret all plain literals. The definition of the
'sur' construction in the RDFS entailment lemma proof has been
clarified; several explanatory paragraphs have been added to make the
proofs easier to follow, and some typos corrected (which also helps,
of course.) Again, for discussion and motivation see Herman's recent
email comments.
9. As well as the above, the change log notes the
_:x rdf:type rdfs:ContainerMembershipProperty .
empty entailment case discussed in earlier emails.
Pat
IHMC(850)434 8903 or (650)494 3973 home
40 South Alcaniz St.(850)202 4416 office
FL 32501(850)291 0667 cell
phayes@ihmc.us http://www.ihmc.us/users/phayes
Hmm... no pointer to the text... using the one you've given
recently, I find...
$ HEAD http://www.ihmc.us/users/phayes/RDF_Semantics_LC2.5.html
200 OK
Date: Wed, 12 Nov 2003 23:36:40 GMT
ETag: "58d0c8-3b7ea-3fb28432"
Content-Length: 243690
Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Wed, 12 Nov 2003 19:04:18 GMT
Hmm... I see the same text now that I saw when you said...
patH Dan, you still there? The version now at
post-terHorst and has an updated changes log. You can run with that one
as far as Im concerned right now: thats my final Wednesday effort..
I checked it in at that point...
revision 1.46.2.6
date: 2003/11/12 19:15:48; author: connolly; state: Exp; lines: +415
-365
That version doesn't become available at
unless/until somebody merges that branch into the head.
Brian, feel free to do so.
Pat, does appendix D say pretty much what you're saying here?
Ah... I guess it does...
Is that supposed to fall under "Several pieces of explanatory prose have
been added, in response to requests for clarification."?
OK, I'll buy that.
OK, good.
Dan Connolly, W3C http://www.w3.org/People/Connolly/
Pat - this is a milestone! (was surprised to see such a Subject:)
It's also the first time as far as I can remember that you don't
mention a URI for that version, so it must be special :-)
but I'm sure it will show up soon at it's deserved place.
The only point I have is that wrt 6. we have not implemented
things as Triple(x,y,z) but as y(x,z) which was a choice.
Still can't believe it...
Jos De Roo, AGFA http://www.agfa.com/w3c/jdroo/
pat hayes
Sent by: cc: Graham Klyne gk@ninebynine.org
w3c-rdfcore-wg-req Subject: Final version of semantics
uest@w3.org
2003-11-13 12:13
AM
Guys, in the interests of full disclosure, here's a summary of the changes
made to the semantics document in the last few days. I actually think that
this is now *all*.
1. Section subheadings added/changed as per
2. "name" now includes plain literals, so vocabularies (= sets of names)
also may contain plain literals. They are not obliged to, so all old
vocabularies are still new vocabularies.
3. 'proper instance' now allows substitution of a plain literal for a
bnode.
4. semantic conditions on simple interpretations of a vocabulary V are now
restricted to the plain literals in V (as they were formerly for the URIs
and typed literals. )
The effect of 2-4 is that all referring expressions (URIrefs and literals)
are treated uniformly, and interpretations of a graph are only obliged to
interpret the symbols which occur in the graph. All of this is conventional
and makes the RDF MT more 'normal'. For justification of why it was needed,
see Herman's recent comment on the failure of the RDFS entailment lemma
proof
(see "To give an example, let A be a URI reference" et seq)
No changes to any test cases or entailments arise.
5. minor editorial changes arising from 2-4 above, eg "name or plain
literal" - "name" in several places, and the example in figure 1 now has
the literals listed in its vocabulary explicitly.
6. Text added in 1.1 Technical note (Informative):
"Readers who are familiar with conventional logical semantics may find it
useful to think of RDF as a version of existential binary relational logic
in which relations are first-class entities in the universe of
quantification. Such a logic can be obtained by encoding the relational
atom R(a,b) into a conventional logical syntax, using a notional
three-place relation Triple(a,R,b); the basic semantic described here can
be reconstructed from this intuition by defining the extension of y as the
set { x,z : Triple(x,y,z)} and noting that this would be precisely the
denotation of R in the conventional Tarskian model theory of the original
form R(a,b) of the relational atom. This construction can also be traced in
the semantics of the Lbase axiomatic description [LBASE]."
This point was raised by at least 3 people at ISWC and in other working
groups, so I thought it might be worth drawing attention to.
7. Other minor editorial suggested by Herman, eg "and A(E) is defined"
added in the third semantic condition table. None of these change meanings,
only clarify or correct errors.
8. The definitions of the Hebrand interpretations in the proof appendix
have been simplified somewhat, since they are no longer required to
interpret all plain literals. The definition of the 'sur' construction in
the RDFS entailment lemma proof has been clarified; several explanatory
paragraphs have been added to make the proofs easier to follow, and some
typos corrected (which also helps, of course.) Again, for discussion and
motivation see Herman's recent email comments.
9. As well as the above, the change log notes the
_:x rdf:type rdfs:ContainerMembershipProperty .
empty entailment case discussed in earlier emails.
Pat
IHMC (850)434 8903 or (650)494 3973 home
40 South Alcaniz St. (850)202 4416 office
FL 32501 (850)291 0667 cell
phayes@ihmc.us http://www.ihmc.us/users/phayes
Final? Herman seems to have some more ...
Brian
Done - after some palaver.
Rev = 1.53
MD5(Overview.html)= 2422a304de3ba46ba1b7070626a99597
Brian
