we're due for a face 2 face meeting. we need to give 8 weeks notice before
a face to face so that people can make travel plans.
could we have suggestions by next wednesday (12 January) for:
1. a city.
chicago is central, but i'm not sure who we could work with to host the
meeting.
Several members of the group are on the East coast, so someplace like
Boston might be more feasible. Again, I'm not sure who would host, perhaps
MIT/W3C?
I would love to see a meeting in Madison, but I imagine that is wishful
thinking; there are no direct flights (Except from chicago, minneapolis and
milwaukee) and those adverse to cold may not appreciate the mounds of
snow. Plus, I'm not sure who could host it (my house isn't quite large
enough).
2. a venue.
3. dates. the earliest that we could schedule a meeting, assuming that we
wrap up discussion and announce by next Thursday 13 January, is March
9. note that CSUN is the week of March 20th. We can not schedule a
meeting immediately after CSUN because other WAI groups have beat us to
it. We usually don't schedule WAI meetings before CSUN because then it
becomes a full week of meetings (csun + WAI meetings afterwards).
The WAI team discussed possibilities last Tuesday and suggested
April. Charles will be in Boston in April.
is there another conference that we could piggyback off of?
4. how many days do you suppose we need? one or two?
5. Agenda items. I assume the agenda would be (at the minimum) the
following issues:
1. ERT document.
2. WART.
3. rechartering and future plans (our charters expired last July).
--wendy
wendy a chisholm
world wide web consortium
web accessibility initiative
madison, wi usa
Thanks, Wendy.
For venue, we can consider Phildelphia. I believe can get the Institute
on Disabilities/UAP to host and Temple has some spiffy meeting areas in our
new learning center.
Philadelphia has a major Airport in town, and there's another, even bigger
airport in Newark NJ (A much longer drive, but gives more options for other
fares). It isn't in the center of the US, but it's more centered with
respect to Europe smile .
For length...
I'd suggest a total of two days, but arranged so that the second is optional.
The first day would an "interest group" focus with a wide range of discussins.
The second day we'd have a "working group" focus: We'd nail down specifics
on our work items. All would be invited but it woudn't be a requirement.
Len
p.s.
(by "host" I mean supplying meeting facilities.)
Leonard R. Kasday, Ph.D.
Institute on Disabilities/UAP, and
Department of Electrical Engineering
Temple University
423 Ritter Annex, Philadelphia, PA 19122
kasday@acm.org
(215) 204-2247 (voice)
(800) 750-7428 (TTY)
Hi -
If we choose Boston, CAST can host. We have a meeting space for about 20
people (or more if we sqeeze), with a projector, PC/Mac computer, etc. The
only catch is that Wednesdays it is in use, so it would have to be Mon-Tue
or Thur-Fri. CAST is 20 miles outside of Boston, though, so that may not be
as attractive to some people (we might consider renting a bus from Boston so
people can stay where the action is).
CSUN and WWW9 are the big conferences on my calendar, as far as scheduling
around or piggybacking on.
What I would like to see on the agenda, among whatever else others want, is
a half or full day of WG-style work on the ERT doc. Perhaps if we do an IG
day and a WG day, the WG day could split into a few different tracks with
different sub-WGs. I don't know if people's goals are mutually exclusive
enough to permit this but it would enable us to put more focus into each
project.
Michael
