Note: the following comments refer only to the draft home page.
[ http://www.w3.org/WAI/EO/Drafts/WAI-home.html ]
Overall impression:
I like it. Easy to read, nicely organized, generally clear link
text (see comments below). Personally, I like the foreground, background
and highlight colours.
Minor points:
The H1 title: "Web Accessibility Initiative" follows directly on
the alt-text "Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI)" behind the WAI logo
image. A bit redundant perhaps. Short of something old-fashioned, like
"Home page", I can't really think of anything better at the moment.
In reference to the Berners-Lee quote near the top of the page --
I know the convention is to render citations in italic face, but I find
italics harder to read on most computer screens at most any resolution and
size.
Near the bottom -- I presume that when the disclaimer "This is a
DRAFT replacement for WAI home page. Links not complete." line goes away,
the "Last update" information will stand on its own line. Right now, it
could use a line break before and after it.
Link text -- under "WAI Resource Library", "easy intros" and "how
to's" seems very idiomatic to me. Are those examples of North-American
laziness commonly understood by anyone who speaks or reads English?
Under "About WAI" -- the link "Questions about site?" confuses
me. Why is there a question mark? The phrase seems too incomplete.
Browser-specific comments:
Internet Explorer (Build 5.00.2314.1003) at 800x600 resolution, 24-bit
color depth:
Personally, I like the foreground, background and highlight colours.
All elements on the page scale nicely with browser font-size
changes (except for the graphic logos (which aren't SVG yet grin ) and the
search box and Search button. By the way, did the User Agent working group
ask for browsers to support scalable form controls and input boxes?
Internet Explorer 5 at 640x480 and 256 colours:
The layout is still good, but some of the colour has
disappeared. The light green background behind the top text links is gone
an now appears the same yellow as behind the subsequent header lines. The
page background color is no longer distinguished, but the
foreground/background contrast is still fine for me.
Netscape Communicator 4.61at 640x480 and 256 colours:
Layout is fine, (but the search box now scrolls off the screen to
the right) No highlight or background colours appear at all in this mode.
Netscape Communicator 4.61at 800x600 and 24-bit colour depth:
Layout is ok and all highlight and background colours display. By
the way, the search field and submit button DO scale with font-changes in
Netscape 4.61. How about that!. Somebody tell Microsoft.
Regards,
Chuck
Starling Access Services
"Access A World Of Possibility"
e-mail: info@starlingweb.com
URL: http://www.starlingweb.com
CL
In reference to the Berners-Lee quote near the top of the page --
I know the convention is to render citations in italic face, but I find
italics harder to read on most computer screens at most any resolution
and size.
/excerpt
JB: True. I'd like to do something different stylistically between the
quote and the attribution, though, and boldface on the quote kind of
chopped up the page; other suggestions? Maybe a stylistic differentiation
is unnecessary?
CMN
I guess you should really mark the citation up as a CITE element, and how you
style it is up to the stylesheet you use or user defaults if you don't.
cheers
Charles
