Here's a short justification for XML Dig Sigs. Any comments?
Rationale for XML Digital Signature.
It offers a "visible" sign of commitment to the privacy policy. Transparency
is all very well but many people see P3P policies as empty statements which
are simply posted "to make Internet Explorer work". A digitally signed seal
of approval offers users a more watertight legal route in the case of
dispute and perhaps more importantly, gives companies an opportunity to "put
their money where their mouth is" and thereby to differentiate themselves
from other organisations.
The impact of including this possibility in the specification would not be
too great. The only necessary elements would be a simple url type attribute
in a policy and a specification for policies which we almost have already.
It could therefore be included to see what uptake there might be.
In a sense this has been done already, but I think that people cannot be
able to take up this suggestion without it being made a bit clearer with
examples or a perhaps a java toolkit/web service for XML signing a policy
and prf.
Giles
It does, and in as far as that happens that is a good thing. However, I have
two comments:
1. Would it lead to the presumption that a unsigned P3P policy is somehow
less committed to or binding?
2. Who exactly is validating the signature? This isn't something users are
likely to comprehend or be able to easily do. (How is it that they are
getting the service's public key for the validation, this presumes a level
of infrastructure and knowledge which is not yet present.)
So I think a signed privacy is a nice exercise, but don't find it that
compelling in the b2c scenario and might weaken the interpretation of a
unsigned policy.
I don't think by adding non-repudiation to a P3P Policy one reduces the
meaning or value of a non-signed policy. The signature does not add
meaning to the policy. It is only a question of evidence.
That's actually a good question. I would _love_ to see native XML
Signature support in browsers to be able to sign XHTML-pages (for courts
and laws e.g.). But I agree, we are far from there.
It might create yet another incentive to implement XML Sig into an
agent. I think the signature requirement is more or less a requirement
to be able to link old-style paper procedures with digital ones without
to much change. (see EU-Directive on Sig that create an _equivalent_ to
handwritten signature)
So for me, it's a nice enhancement, but not a must be. In fact, it might
be nice to have a common way to do signatures on policies, if there are
many ways to implement that. But Jo, you can tell better _if_ there are
really many ways..
Rigo
