regarding "ACTION: DanC to work on face-to-face agenda"
-- minutes: RDF DAWG telcon 25 March for review
Thinking out loud... the basic questions are who/what/where/when/why...
Who is straightforward: as many WG members as can make it.
EricP has set up a WBS form gizmo.
Why? To first order, the charter calls for ftf meetings,
and each of us has agreed to the charter. To finer
resolution, we should have some meeting goals... hmm...
Where? to 1st order: Amsterdam. Beyond that,
we've delegated to our hosts, Asemantics, who are keeping
us informed on a web page, http://dawg.asemantics.com/ .
We have a couple requests for remote participation that
I expect we'll accomodate.
When? to first order: 22-23 April. But we need
more resolution on that... tradition suggests 9am to 5pm
each day, but I haven't looked at flights and such.
Our hosts are evidently willing to accomodate us
for that time:
"22 and 23 of April, 9.00 -17.00."
-- http://dawg.asemantics.com/
Does anybody have a conflict starting at 9am on the 22nd and
continuing thru 5pm on the 23rd? Please speak of conflicts
for you personally, and don't worry about things you think
other people might have trouble with. I'm interested
to know about any sort of conflict, even if it's uncertain
whether it will ultimately affect your participation in
the meeting. Feel free to let me know off-list and/or
in the comments field of the WBS form noted above.
What is scoped by our charter, but we clearly need more
resolution than that. And it's traditional to assign
specific times to certain topics. I mentioned a couple
3-hour slots for the remote participants. These should
be in the afternoon (a) because that puts the sun
up over Pat Hayes, and (b) because Patrick Stickler
asked to be briefed on the morning's progress at
the start of the session.
Meeting goals are also relevant to the what? and why? questions.
I have only just begun to consider meeting goals.
I suppose I'd like to get some level of consensus
around use cases and requirements and have a plan
for publishing them on http://www.w3.org/TR/ .
Perhaps we can walk thru the RDQL submission
and collect issues. Or maybe it's too early for that.
I expect that during the breaks and such, folks will
discuss their favorite design proposals, or test
harness mechanisms, and the like. But I don't know
if we'll deal with that sort of thing as a group just yet.
We have only decided telcon times thru April, so
please come prepared to play telcon tiddlywinks.
i.e. have your calendar handy. People that don't
plan to attend should give their input by email.
I'll send a separate message about that.
Likewise future ftf meetings. It's good to have
them planned a year in advance. Anybody who would
like to host a future ftf meeting should please
let the WG know at or before the Amsterdam meeting.
Perhaps we'll entertain proposals before the meeting
in email and actually decide at the meeting.
There. That's the contents of my brain relevant
to the ftf agenda. Let the discussion begin.
Keep in mind that W3C process calls for the
agenda to be done two weeks in advance, i.e.
8 April. By that time I intend to have a meeting
page in place, ala
Fifth Meeting of the W3C Web Ontology Working Group
9-10 January 2003
Manchester, UK
Dan Connolly, W3C http://www.w3.org/People/Connolly/
see you at the WWW2004 in NY 17-22 May?
HP would be happy to host a F2F in Bristol, UK (when it is appropriate to
have it in Europe).
The airport is:
xp/id/airports/EGGD
Andy
Anybody found any particularly reasonable places to stay in Amsterdam? My
wife and I are going to stay on after the meeting and would like to find a
B&amp;B or some such that's relatively inexpensive.
Howard
From: public-rdf-dawg-request@w3.org
[mailto:public-rdf-dawg-request@w3.org]On Behalf Of Seaborne, Andy
Sent: Monday, March 29, 2004 12:46 AM
Subject: RE: toward Apr AMS meeting agenda
