I have been talking for a while about accessible Web 3D applications. One
idea was to create a panel on this topic to a Web 3D conference in April as
an outreach event and then use that and possible other contacts that we to
create a corresponding WAI RDIG teleconference event.
We also talked earlier about doing something similar for the CHI
conference. Maybe this kind of format could work as an outreach format to
get researchers interested and thinking about these issues in their work
and then use the work already done and contacts from the conference to
create an RDIG event?
Naturally, not all RDIG events need to be related to conference outreach.
Feedback?
Marja
It's been suggested that I submit a proposal for a roundtable to GDC on
Accessibility and games.
It would be really helpful if we could accumulate some expertise on
what makes a game accessible.
I've a contact at the RNIB who has supplied some materials.
This is a really fundamental problem, it is far from trivial, and
merits attention.
Games are about having fun, and it's more fun if everyone can join in
Does anyone have any suggestions?
thanks
Jonathan Chetwynd
"A web by people with learning difficulties"
I think this would be a good topic. It touches on a lot of issues that
regular WAI guidelines groups struggle with. Along with the fun aspect
is the idea of competition that is inherent to many games - and also to
a lot of assessment in education, and other scenarios from everyday
life.
Having an idea about what work is being done strikes me as something
that would be very valuable.
Cheers
Chaals
Le Tuesday, 9 Dec 2003, ? 09:36 Australia/Melbourne, Jonathan Chetwynd
a ?crit :
Charles McCathieNevile Fundaci?n Sidar
charles@sidar.org http://www.sidar.org
I agree with Charles this is a good idea.
The next step is to start gathering links about research and researchers
related to this area (I wish we could already use Annotea shared bookmarks
:-) ). Another step that can happen also parallel is to try to write the
first draft for such an event.
After this we might have not just one but several ideas for good events
related to accessible games or some related topics.
Would you be interested in taking it forward Jonathan?
Marja
Marja,
Whilst I am very happy to contribute and comment, documentation
origination is not my strong hand, so please would others contribute?
I'll try to string some ideas together in the meantime ~:"
A colleague at the RNIB sent me this list of VI accessible games, which
my assistant is currently reviewing:
Jonathan Chetwynd
"A web by people with learning difficulties"
