As discussed in the call today, we are planning to post a public working
draft of the HTML Techniques for WCAG 2.0 to the Technical Reports page.
This is a draft, only a draft, and there are lots of incomplete areas.
Still, if there are issues that you believe need to be addressed before we
post it publicly, please send them to the list by the end of the day Friday,
October 31. Please identify that the issue needs to be addressed before
going to TR, or we will assume the comment is a general one that can be
addressed after this working draft is posted.
The current draft is available at
Michael
-- Signature --
Michael Cooper
Accessibility Product Manager, Watchfire
1 Hines Rd, Kanata, ON K2K 3C7, Canada
michaelc@watchfire.com
Watchfire's spam filter often mistakes legitimate email for spam. If this
filter sends you a reply that an email to me was not delivered, please
inform me of the problem using alternate contact information provided above.
I do not consider your message spam and apologize for problems caused by
this filter.
Just my two eurocents:
Uncategorized techniques
- Use of the title attribute
- Meta redirect
- Meta refresh
Why the two meta (redirect and refresh) aren't inside the metadata
group?
In the draft you refer to metadata for the HTML 4.01 Meta element[1] in
the "Resource" section that contain also the meta http-equiv values for
redirect and refresh.
Roberto Scano
[1] http://www.w3.org/TR/html401/struct/global.html#edef-META
[2]
I moved the meta redirect and refresh outside of the metadata group because,
although they involve the meta element, they aren't metadata, in my
opinion. They are an HTML mechanism for simulating part of the HTTP response
header. In a future draft I would like to find a better home for these than
"uncategorized". These techniques overlap with techniques I expect will be
in the Server-Side, or HTTP, or whatever we call it, Techniques document.
We'll have to find a way to express that, and also to indicate when you
would follow the HTML vs. the HTTP technique. There was a thread recently
that raised that issue, and there seems to be a lot of preference for using
the HTTP technique, though there are specific reasons people use the HTML
technique. Anyway we'll have to speak to that.
There are other techniques involving the meta element that are in the
metadata section. These are about keywords, description, etc. and in my
opinion belong there as they provide true metadata. It's messy semantics
that the same element has such distinct uses, but there are historical
reasons for this (pre W3C) and we're stuck with it.
Michael
html#meta_redirect
