Hi,
I am using the DOM with java servlets and I couldn't find any method
to copy a node from one document to another document.
Thanks for your help
Christophe Ney
Internet Application Engineer
Lutris Technologies
Copying a node from one document to another is quite an operation because
the ownerDocument attribute of a node (or clone of a node) cannot be
changed directly. Inserting a node in another document than it was created
for will raise an exception according to the specification.
You may have to test the type of the node using nodeType, create a new node
of the given type for the other document, fill in the new node with the
values from the old node, then repeat this recursively for its children
before inserting it in the other document.
As far as I can tell from the spec, even use of a documentFragment for
copying portions of a document tree won't save you from this tedious
procedure.
-- Terje Terje@in-progress.com | Media Design in*Progress
Software for Mac Web Professionals at http://www.in-progress.com
* C a s c a d e... a comprehensive Cascading Style Sheets editor
* WebSlides generates presentations displayed with any browser
* XPublish - for efficient website publishing with XML
* Make your Web Site a Social Place with Interaction!
Copying a node from one document to another is not an operation defined
in the DOM Level 1. However, we plan to have such a feature in the DOM
Level 2.
Arnaud Le Hors - W3C, DOM Activity Lead -
There is none. You have to create a node in the destination document
and set the attributes one by one.
John Cowanhttp://www.ccil.org/~cowancowan@ccil.org
You tollerday donsk? N. You tolkatiff scowegian? Nn.
You spigotty anglease? Nnn. You phonio saxo? Nnnn.
Clear all so! 'Tis a Jute.... (Finnegans Wake 16.5)
Another technique is to serialize the document fragment and then reconstruct
it in the other document.
Jonathan Borden
As has been noted before, DOM itself does not support such a method.
It being a useful thing to be able to do, however, several versions
of DOM support extensions which enable this. In particular if you
use Sun's package, the "com.sun.xml.XmlDocument.changeNodeOwner()"
method lets you do that. Of course, this won't work if you're trying
to mix DOM nodes from multiple implementations.
- Dave
Hi all,
If there was one IE5b bug you'd like to see fixed in the final version,
what would it be?? Why does this bug effect your development?
This may seem like a silly question but we're going to be sending these
bugs to Microsoft en masse.
Send away!!
B.K. DeLong 360 Huntington Ave.
Director Suite 140CSC-305
New England Chapter Boston, MA 02115
World Organization (617) 247-3753
of Webmasters
bkdelong@naw.org
