jim, thank you very much for your comment! luckily i have this in an
include file and can fix right away.
here is another question. the image in the footer is really there for
functionality. how would you describe the image in the footer? What do you
think of "Separates main content and the footer." then catch the image
desciption in the longdesc and d-link?
From: w3c-wai-ig-request@w3.org [mailto:w3c-wai-ig-request@w3.org]
Sent:Sunday, May 06, 2001 2:34 PM
Subject:RE: dlink and longdesc
Robert,
I feel strongly that the alt text should be simple and convey the
information of the image. So the alt text for the two images at the top of
the page should be exactly the words on those images, without the
description of the graphic; that should be in the long description.
Long description is supported. HPR not only offers it to its blind users,
but adds the link to the graphic view as well - a decision I consider to
be a bug. I haven't checked screen readers. They will catch up when folks
start using longdesc.
I think the right thing to do is provide the longdesc attribute and do not
clutter your design with the D tag - at least for the template. The D tag
is fine for some of our sites, but it would certainly not help your
design. The description is not interesting anyway! It is somewhat amusing
that when I carefully included the d link, like in
a "Long Description" link.
As far as adding white on white D link, that will work for the screen
readers I know. It is done at http://firstgov.gov (white on white) and
links.
Jim
jim@jimthatcher.com
Accessibility Consulting
512-306-0931
-----Original Message-----
From: w3c-wai-ig-request@w3.org [mailto:w3c-wai-ig-request@w3.org]
Sent:Sunday, May 06, 2001 9:55 AM
Subject:dlink and longdesc
i have added longdesc to almost all the images. i know i need to add some
better ALT tag description. however, as the longdesc is not used, the
recomendation use is d-link. do you agree?
i do not think we are going to get government and commercial designers to
add this or worse yet some designs are so intensive that the cost of
rework may justify not doing it.
I would propose that a list of descriptions be kept on another page with a
copy of the image.
would an alternative be if space could be made to make the link white so
it would be hidden to users. could it be rendered by assistive devices or
do some devices not read text that is not visible?
comments?
Robert,
I am conservative on alt text. I would use alt="", but your argument that
the image does convey information - "separating main content from footer" -
is somewhat convincing. If convinced of that, I would use alt="begin footer"
or alt="begin footer content."
Jim
jim@jimthatcher.com
Accessibility Consulting
512-306-0931
should the source file for longdesc be a text or html. or does it matter?
I don't know how it is currently implemented, where implemented, but,
in my view, it ought to be implemented in a full web link context,
such that content negotiation can be used to, for example, provide
recorded speech if the user agent specifies a strong preference for
audio in the request. (An aural user agent should not necessarily
assume that a general preference for audio applies in this context,
though.)
I would expect HTML unless there were no links and no real structure
beyond basic paragraphing.
[ Deleted 170 lines of unnecessary quotation including 61 line of
MS-TNEF gibberish. ]
It should meet the WCAG at least to the same level as the document it comes
from. Text is unlikely to do that well - HTML is better.
Charles McCN
should the source file for longdesc be a text or html. or does it matter?
