I noticed in Al's discussion points relating to the media type issue, a
suggestion that braille displays could be treated as terminal or TTY
output devices. This is only true in the most primitive applications in
in which a braille display is being used effectively as a screen reader;
computer braille codes are used to give an exact, one to one
correspondence between each character on the screen and a braille cell.
However, such an approach is extremely inefficient, and most braille
readers prefer to use the standard braille codes (for literary text,
mathematics etc.) which have been defined by various national and
international bodies. This often involves a system of contractions and
other conventions that are unique to braille. Furthermore, the formatting
of a document so that it will be optimally presented on a braille display
is essentially different from the presentation that would be appropriate
to an 80 character by 24 line terminal device.
I hope that Al was not suggesting that the media type of BRAILLE be
abandoned in favour of TTY.
to follow up on what Jason White said:
Interesting issue.
I would suggest that that issue is a prime example of what we
want the Interest Group to discuss. Why don't you raise these
considerations on the IG list.
I am not willing to say that we should 100% stop talking here in
private, but we should be mingling with the broader group and
trying to stimulate thought and discussion in the plenary
setting. A bias in favor of public (i.e. on the IG list)
discussion should be maintained.
-- Al
The basic approach to media types which Al has developed, and which I have
championed, is outlined at
Within the context of that general approach, I would recommend that a
media type for braille (media="braille") be reserved as a base type; this
is indeed the current position as reflected in the HTML 4.0 draft.
The question of whether any TTY styles or style sheets would be relevant
to braille devices, in spite of the formatting differences between braille
and character-based terminals, is a question that should be left for later
consideration by the Formats and Protocols working group.
I have been discussing with Al by private e-mail some of the disanalogies
between TTY and braille formatting. These are concerned principally with
the effects of contractions and hyphenation, the use of different braille
codes depending upon which country's braille standard is in use (and this
is not equivalent to a change in language or character set), etc.
Another difference lies in the primacy which is rightly given to
considerations of space conservation in braille formatting conventions.
Blank lines are normally suppressed; indentation is normally limited to
two characters per level of indent, etc.
