We need to resolve the question of whether this issue is in scope or not.
Lets review the criteria for what is in and out of scope for the WG.
The charter says:
Implementor feedback concerning the RDF Model and Syntax Recommendation
points to the need for a number of fixes, clarifications and improvements
to the specification of RDF's abstract model and XML syntax.
The role of the RDF Core WG is to prepare the way for such work by
stabilizing the core RDF specifications. The RDF Core WG is neither
chartered to develop a new RDF syntax, nor to reformulate the RDF model.
I presume that we are all still comfortable to be bound by the charter.
Broadly, the charter says we are to fix, clarify and improve the
SPECIFICATION of RDF's abstract model and XML syntax. We are
specifically forbidden from reformulating the RDF model.
What does m&amp;s say about the relationship between resources and literals.
The problem we have is that m&amp;s is not as clear on some things as it
could be - that's why the WG exists after all. Whilst its possible to
come up with creative interpretations of the document, we should
in principal not indulge ourselves like that. Where multiple
interpretations are possible, the simplest and most obvious is to
be preferred.
I suggest that the issue in question here is whether the abstract model
described in m&amp;s has a distinguished representation for Literals.
I have phrased this question carefully. The question is not whether a
literal is a resource, for to answer that we need to resolve a bunch
of difficult issues around what resources are. The question is
whether the abstract model described in m&amp;s treats literals specially.
If it does, then so must we if we are to avoid 'reformulating' the model.
Brian
I am often wary of games in wording since they mostly seem aimed
at making people admit things that they don't believe. So I ask
you to kindly stop the wordplay and instead let's have a
discussion on what we really mean. Still, even as message stands
it does not make much sense:
I'm not sure how to interpret that, since my dictionary says:
@prefix ed: http://www.w3.org/2000/08/eb58# .
@prefix dc: http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/ .
reformulate
v : formulate or develop again, of an improved theory or
hypothesis [syn: redevelop]
is ed:excerpt of [
http://www.dict.org/bin/Dict?Form=Dict2&amp;Database=*&amp;Query=reformulate ;
dc:title "The DICT Development Group: Online Dictionary Query-
reformulate" ]
How do we improve something without coming up with an improved
theory? Perhaps you can shed light on this definition of
"reformulate".
Furthermore, it is unclear to me that we are strictly forbidden
from doing so, it is simply not our charter (i.e. a specific
goal/requirement).
I'm not sure what that means. What is a "distinguished
representation"? I think the question here is just what it would
appear to be: Do literals (as defined by M&amp;S) have URIs? Based
on what I know about URIs, I'm pretty sure the answer is yes.
Let me be rather clear about my position in general: I think
that an RDF statement is made up of three URIs.
I don't see how this is relevant to the issue at hand. Yes,
there is a set of things in M&amp;S called "Literals". Whether this
is a side-effect of the XML syntax, or of the abstract syntax is
not clear to me. Still, even if it was a special part of the
abstract syntax, that does not prevent the set of Literals from
having URIs. And if we do decide that they have URIs, that does
not prevent us from maintaining this distinction or "special
treatment".
[ "Aaron Swartz" ; mailto:me@aaronsw.com ; http://www.aaronsw.com/ ]
A basic principle for working in groups is "the
right of the minority to be heard, and the right
of the majority to decide".
Can we have a straw poll on this issue Friday to
see where the majority lies?
Thanks,
Ron
As I won't be there Friday...
Much as I like the general idea of allowing literals to be resources, I am
persuaded by Brian's argument that to do so at this time would be to
stretch our charter.
This may be a small stretch. But I think Brian is right to resist scope
creep by identifying any issue that can reasonably be deferred to V2.
#g
Graham Klyne Baltimore Technologies
Strategic Research Content Security Group
Sorry about zoning in late on all of this - I've been busy and out of
the office most of the week (thus, apologies but I'm not going to have
finished my action points by the telecon).
Anyway, Graham raised something which I'd like to underline:
There seem to be two directions that the WG can go (or follow both).
One, to produce fixes and clarifications ot the current spec (a primer
document, something for the mathematicians, etc.?); secondly, to build
RDF v2.
Now, I can understand that the latter activity seems more appealing, but
in order for the RDF community at large to take an RDF v2 seriously, I
think we need to demonstrate the ability to accurately fix the current
RDF in a timely fashion. Thus far, we seem to have been doing this
reasonably well.
There's no reason not to stop to discuss interesting issues on the way -
nor to flag up things (as has been done once or twice) as "for
consideration in V2" - (and even doing a lot of that consideration right
now) but* when considering fixes/changes/whatever to the current spec,
we need to consider if it's a necessary or flagrant violation of the
POLA** from an RDF user's point of view. If necessary, we make it as
sweet a pill as possible; if flagrant, chalk it up for V2.
jan
* this is my opinion only - I'm not a chair or anything important - just
how I see the immediate and future tasks fo the WG.
** "Principle of least astonisment" - not an absolute method of formal
proof, just (like Occam's razor) a guideline for good practice.
jan grant, ILRT, University of Bristol. http://www.ilrt.bris.ac.uk/
