Do we have anything from a few months back when we were discussing this that
we could use to write such a transform? Should we write it from scratch?
I've received a reminder concerning this from people having tests in JavaML
that want to transform them to DOMTSML.
/Dimitris
No that was just a possibility, not something that I ever wrote. Probably easier just to convert the files manually from the Java source, but would have to really look at the source documents to see
what the best approach would be. Given the esoteric nature of our little domtest language, I think we should be open, at least in this phase, to submissions in other languages since we can probably
convert the tests into domtest pretty quickly.
Sorry, I inadvertantly replied off list. Dimitris's off-list reply to my off-list reply appears later to provide context for the following comment.
[dd]
Hopefully we will end up in either b or c, as
we've agreed on having all tests in a language-neutral form
in order to allow for other bindings to be generated eventually.
[ca]
Option a explicitly states that if we accept tests written in a general purpose programming language we would only use it as a pattern for creating an equivalent DOMTSML test. However, we wouldn't be
obligated to accept such tests and would only do so if we thought the tests were a valuable resource and it would be better to take them how they are than to not have them.
This far in, I'm definitely committed to the XML based representation. At the start my preference was test development in general purpose languages first, language independent infrastructure second,
but now that the infrastructure is mostly in place, it makes no sense to try to integrate tests in general purpose languages.
While we are on this subject, haven't heard from the Microsoft guys for a long time. I assume that they are not the party that you are talking about, but they might have a similar situation, a
substantial body of tests in a general purpose language where requiring the contributor to make the conversion to DOMTSML might be a barrier.
I'm having a couple of problems getting the
appropriate metadata info into the NIST
tests. I've attached a sample test file,
textWithNoMarkup.xml, a transformation,
copy.xsl, and a set of descriptions,
mary.xml.
The transformation attempts to copy
information from a particular test, insert
copyright info, and create metadata tags,
pulling the test descriptions from mary.xml.
I'm using xalan, and it seems to add an
xmlns:xsi attribute to each of my elements
on the copy. Any ideas?
--Mary
