This phrase appears in the tip section of the guidelines. What does it mean?
7. Front-load link phrases in lists.
Jon Gunderson, Ph.D., ATP
Coordinator of Assistive Communication and Information Technology
Division of Rehabilitation - Education Services
University of Illinois at Urbana/Champaign
1207 S. Oak Street
Champaign, IL 61820
Voice: 217-244-5870
E-mail: jongund@uiuc.edu
WWW:http://www.staff.uiuc.edu/~jongund
In the latest version that we are working on (to be posted in the near
future) it reads:
Place distinguishing information at the beginning of headings, paragraphs,
lists, etc. to decrease the amount of sifting readers perform to find
important information.
does this answer your question?
--wendy
to follow up on what Wendy A Chisholm said:
Al::
As I read these two snippets, they say different things. So the
second doesn't explain what the first meant.
Al::
The way I read that injunction it says that the anchor, the
sensitive text, should appear at or near the start of the text
content of the LI element.
By the way, this is a mixed blessing. It is good for Braille
users and users of screen enlargers. Sighted people like it
because the array of clickables falls in a neat, easily mouseable
stack on the screen. But on the whole it has a negative effect
in speech, where it is better to reverse this and put the action
opportunity at the end of the explanation. Gregory Rosmaita has
beat me up over this one regarding some pages we discussed.
But of course, that has been overtaken by events as far as the
current draft is concerned.
The current text sounds like the standard advice to start
paragraphs with topic sentences and sections with topic
paragraphs. Good advice which can become critical under the
stress of adverse access conditions.
-- Al
Hello,
Our first attempt at phrasing a guideline was a narrow look at links. We
were trying to make serial access (i.e. speech) as efficient as possible.
Thus, if you have a list of links and the information that makes that link
unique appears first, you should be able to more quickly select the
appropriate link. For example, if i have a list of links to chapter
headings, front loading the links with "chapter 1 - style sheets, chapter 2
- links, etc." slows down a user. They have to listen to repetitive
information ("chapter") before getting to the meat of the link (chapter
name). On the other hand, if we did something like, "Style sheets -
chapter 2, Links - chapter 3, etc." they get the meat first. This is not
the best example, but it should illustrate the problem.
We were especially concerned about links because we've found that users of
screen readers often tab through the links on the page as a way of skimming
the contents. Upon further discussion we realized the statement applied to
more than just links in lists. Thus, we broadened the recommendation to
(hopefully) include "Good advice which can become critical under the
stress of adverse access conditions."
Are there other issues that we need to be aware of in regards to this
guideline? Is it helpful? Necessary? Could it possibly create other
problems?
thanks,
--wendy
wendy chisholm
researcher - human factors engineer
trace research and development center
university of wisconsin - madison, USA
to follow up on what Wendy A Chisholm said:
There is a related issue that has [to my knowledge with current
technology] to be addressed at a site level.
This has to do with the fact that users learn. As they learn
they want less display information but when they first encounter
a site or topic, they want a lot of context and explanation as
they go.
Computer application developers have taken to using "Cue cards"
and related tricks to get users to participate with the tutorial
sections of the help/learn subsystem when they are new. This
lets the core controls which are always in the loop be relatively
terse, optimized for the trained habitual user.
Web sites have to provide some of this verbosity diversity, too.
The "how to use this site" sub-web at www.microsoft.com is a good
example of how one can do this.
User needs are not static but shift as the same user uses the
same site repeatedly. Since sites want not just to draw the
first hit but to win repeat business, they have to provide a
range of fast-vs-clear ways to use the site.
-- Al
