Review of:
Web Content Accessibility Guidelines
1999-02-26
As there are currently lots of W3C documents requiring review by the I18N IG
and we have three of our own WDs under development, I have reviewed this
document myself. I am copying the I18N IG, in case any members wish to
supplement, or take issue with, my comments. A lot of thought has clearly
been put into this document, so most of my comments are stylistic.
1. Abstract
Suggestion:
"automobile-based PC's" -
"automobile-based PCs"
2. Guideline 2
Suggestion:
"to understanding what's going on" -
"to enable the user to understand what's going on"
3. Checkpoint 5.6
Suggestion:
"use 'em' or percentages lengths" -
"use 'em' or percentage lengths"
4. Guideline 6
I'm baffled by the title:
"Supplement markup to aid interpretation of text"
In what sense do any of the recommendations under this guideline
supplement markup?
5. Guideline 6 checkpoints
Suggestion:
In addition to HTML's "lang" attribute, mention XML's "xml:lang"
attribute.
6. Checkpoint 9.1
Suggestion:
"in HTTP, auto-refreshing is done with "HTTP-EQUIV=refresh"." -
"in HTML, auto-refreshing is done with "HTTP-EQUIV=refresh"."
The current text is incorrect.
7. Checkpoint 11.1
This is surely incorrect:
"See also guideline 11."
8. Guideline 12
Suggestion:
"These activate elements are therefore difficult ... to access." -
"These active elements are therefore difficult ... to access."
9. Note to Guideline 13
Suggestion:
"the translation process" -
"the conversion process"
Suggestion:
"If a page does not readily translate" -
"If a page does not readily convert"
The word "translation" is best reserved for use with human language
variants of a document.
10. Checkpoint 13.5
Suggestion:
"can not" -
"cannot"
11. Checkpoint 15.9
Context:
"Facilitate off-line browsing by creating a single downloadable file
for documents that exist as a series of separate pages. [Priority 3]
For example, in HTML use the LINK element. Or create an archive of the
different pages (e.g., with zip, gzip, stuffit, etc.)."
I'm baffled by the sentence "For example, in HTML use the LINK element."
It would appear that two distinct issues have got collapsed into one.
12. Checkpoint 16.3
Suggestion:
"Create a consistent style of presentation between pages." -
"Create a consistent style of presentation across pages."
Note: The current usage sounds strange to me, but may be correct in US
English.
13. Appendix B
Suggestion:
"Validate pages and assess the accessibility with automated tools" -
"Validate pages and assess their accessibility with automated tools"
14. Appendix B, bullet 6
Suggestion:
"Use a several browsers, old and new." -
"Use several browsers, old and new."
15. Appendix C, DHTML
Suggestion:
"Most guidelines may be applicable to DHTML-type of applications" -
"Most guidelines may be applicable to applications using DHTML"
16. Appendix C, PDA
Suggestion:
"devices. usually" -
"devices, usually"
17. References
Suggestion:
Change all W3C references to point to the "latest version" of each
document, eg:
"http://www.w3.org/TR/1998/REC-html40-19980424" -
"http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-html40"
The current references make it less likely that checkpoint 13.1 will be
adhered to.
18. General
Suggestion:
&amp;nbsp; span class="priority1" [Priority&amp;nbsp;1] /span " -
span class="priority1" [Priority&amp;nbsp;1] /span "
Ditto for the other priorities.
The current extensive use of "&amp;nbsp;" results in unnnecessary
formatting anomalies.
Misha Wolf
I18N WG Chair
Any views expressed in this message are those of the individual sender,
except where the sender specifically states them to be the views of
Reuters Ltd.
Misha,
Thank you for your prompt review. The editors will take into
account your comments. I've snipped the purely editorial ones
from my comments below.
Perhaps it would be better to say something like "Provide clues
about natural language information". And in the subhead (or
rationale) explain that such markup will help, for example,
speech synthesizers.
Yes, I believe it should be Guideline 10.
I agree. There are trwo problems in the example part of 15.9:
a) The LINK element should be mentioned in a checkpoint about
navigation tools (that may be synthesized by UAs).
b) The part about archives is another solution that is not
related to the checkpoint. This has to be cleared up.
Hmm, I recently changed them to designate specific versions
intentionally.
Perhaps unlike a technical specification, it's best in this case
to point to the latest version. And 13.1 reinforces that.
&amp;nbsp; span class="priority1" [Priority&amp;nbsp;1] /span " -
span class="priority1" [Priority&amp;nbsp;1] /span "
Good catch. Our scripts were producing an extra &amp;nbsp; at
the beginning of that markup. The one between "Priority" and "1"
is left intentionally.
Thank you again Misha,
- Ian
Ian Jacobs (jacobs@w3.org)
Garbled attempt to say "supplement the text content with metadata in the
markup."
"Supplement markup" is, strictly speaking, wrong. Careful speakers of
English will, as Misha did, interpret this as implying "do something that
is outside the markup."
Perhaps "augment" or "enhance" may have been intended, but a more
straightforward statement would be to use apply, employ, or provide as in
"Provide markup that aids conversion to speech and Braille." Or
"Use markup that documents language and pronunciation."
Al
Again, Misha's wording is better.
Al
PS: Not Americanism, just Constructivism.
[The degree of] consistency between pages is the inverse of [the degree of]
difference between pages.
Talking about consistency "between" pages presumes that the consistency
relation is a binary relation and is applied pairwise to all possible pairs
in the page set at the site. "Across" neatly avoids the issue of whether
consistency is a pair or set property by allowing for both interpretations,
whichever the reader is prone to assume. This choice also avoids getting
entangled in the number connotations of "between" or "among."
element."
Sorry.
Point a) -- there is in the HTML specification a remark suggesting that
LINK markup be used to annotate the structure of a super-document tree
composed of multiple HTML elements/files. That is why LINK is mentioned
here. This is a pretty academic point, however. Perhaps in the
_techniques_ for this guideline, we can refer the reader to a tool that
walks the LINKs and merges the document in a print-to-file pass.
Point b) -- The .zip solution is related in that it facilitates review
while the user is not paying connect time charges. Admittedly it is an
alternative to the literal satisfaction of the guideline as presently
stated. But it is a technique addressing some of the same problems.
To create a guideline that fits both techniques, one could perhaps broaden
it to: "Facilitate offline reading of the material at a time and in a tool
of the user's choice."
Technique 1: Composite document in plain text file.
Technique 2: .zip etc. archive of document.
Al
Amaya actually traverses such links to 'make book', allowing you to do
this. But I agree that much of this belongs in the techniques document
only.
Charles
(PS I like most of your suggestions Misha - thanks)
element."
Sorry.
Point a) -- there is in the HTML specification a remark suggesting that
LINK markup be used to annotate the structure of a super-document tree
composed of multiple HTML elements/files. That is why LINK is mentioned
here. This is a pretty academic point, however. Perhaps in the
_techniques_ for this guideline, we can refer the reader to a tool that
walks the LINKs and merges the document in a print-to-file pass.
Point b) -- The .zip solution is related in that it facilitates review
while the user is not paying connect time charges. Admittedly it is an
alternative to the literal satisfaction of the guideline as presently
stated. But it is a technique addressing some of the same problems.
To create a guideline that fits both techniques, one could perhaps broaden
it to: "Facilitate offline reading of the material at a time and in a tool
of the user's choice."
Technique 1: Composite document in plain text file.
Technique 2: .zip etc. archive of document.
Al
--Charles McCathieNevile mailto:charles@w3.org
W3C Web Accessibility Initiative http://www.w3.org/WAI
MIT/LCS - 545 Technology sq., Cambridge MA, 02139, USA
Hi,
I would like to comment on section 3.8 of the Web Content guidelines, at:
In this section you discuss guidelines for applets. The subsection titled
"Directly accessible applets" provides two links for more information on the
topic (to "[JAVAACCESS]", a Trace website, and "[IBMJAVA]" an IBM website),
but does not itself contain any language directing users on what techniques
to use to create these accessible applets.
I think this subsection should be amended to specifically include the key
language on the topic, and refer to external web pages for readers to get
more detailed information and guidelines (e.g. the IBM page, and of course
the two pages on the Sun web site, 'www.sun.com/access' and
'java.sun.com/products/jfc'). Specifically, I think this subsection should
include language along the lines of:
"To create an accessible applet, you must ensure that the applet supports
the Java Accessibility API [link here to http://java.sun.com/products/jfc]
This API is built into the Java Foundation Classes from Sun Microsystems,
and can also be implemented directly by applets that aren't created
using the Java Foundation Classes. Therefore, applet developers should
either build their applets using the Java Foundation Classes, or otherwise
implement the Java Accessibility API on their own.
For more information about accessible applets..."
Also, please consisder including an example Java applet which is accessible
(or at least a link to one). The "SwingApplet" example that comes with the
Swing package is just such an applet (a minimal accessible applet) I've
attached source to SwingApplet, as well as a web page that invokes it using
the Java Plugin (which is necessary for accessibility support until browsers
support JDK 1.2 directly).
Thanks,
Peter Korn
Assistive Technology Architect,
Sun Microsystems
Hello Misha,
To address this we've adopted the following solution [1]
a) Add a link from checkpoint 13.1 ("Use the latest W3C specs")
to the references section of the guidelines.
b) In the references section, add a statement about
where to find the current versions of W3C specs and a link
to the TR page.
c) The list of references will contain dated versions so
that readers will know what existed when the guidelines
were created.
d) To each entry in the list, add a link to the latest
version of that spec.
- Ian
[1] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-gl/1999JanMar/0486.html
Ian Jacobs (jacobs@w3.org)
