Hi, Gregory
Suppose that you were appearing before a congressional sub-committee.
How would you argue before them why no functionality provided on
web pages should be labelled as being appropriate for blind users?
Why would this be of benefit to most blind web users of various levels
of computer/web sophistication?
Scott
Hi Scott,
I would like to encourage you to initiate discussions like this
on the w3c-wai-ig list rather than the w3c-wai-gl list. I believe
that the IG list is more appropriate for general discussions, while
the GL list is more appropriate for concrete discussions about
the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines. Due to the amount of
mail I receive and must process, I count on exchanges on this
list to be as lean as possible.
I don't mean to discourage discussion, but to encourage it
in the appropriate forum. If this question has a direct bearing
on the WCAG, it belongs here. It was not clear to me from
your questions that they had a direct bearing on the Working
Group's chartered work.
Thank you for understanding,
- Ian
Ian Jacobs (jacobs@w3.org) http://www.w3.org/People/Jacobs
Cell: +1 917 450-8783
Scott,
I think this a complex question. And it should be remembered that the primary
role of this group is not to stand up and argue at congress or parliament or
court, but to find the best ways to make the web accessible.
I think that to label something as "appropriate for blind users" in general
is to ignore the varying skill levels, operating methods, and other
differing user needs within the group of people who might expect to use such
features. It is more helpful, in my estimation, to describe functionalities
available. In addition, this will alert people who are not blind, but who
have similar needs, to the fact that they can use them.
(This is still not a full answer, but I hope gives some idea of what a full
answer would be.)
Charles McCN
Hi, Gregory
Suppose that you were appearing before a congressional sub-committee.
How would you argue before them why no functionality provided on
web pages should be labelled as being appropriate for blind users?
Why would this be of benefit to most blind web users of various levels
of computer/web sophistication?
Scott
W3C Web Accessibility Initiative http://www.w3.org/WAI
21 Mitchell Street, Footscray, VIC 3011, Australia
First off, from my perspective this would be a waste. The NFB and ACB can
take care of talking to Congress. We can't waste technical talent like
Gregory on that. We need him working at .com intensity on synthesizing the
better answer for how to do it. Not dickering over what to call it.
There are two basic reasons:
One is that this is not very descriptive. The appropriateness of page or
site functions for users depends on more things than their level of visual
function. It would be better to describe what the page function actually
does, so blind and sighted users alike can better discern for themselves if
they want to use the function.
The other is the labeling issue. For better or for worse a lot of people
carry around in their hearts a negative stigma attached to blindness. Many
blind people have internalized this. So if two ways to describe the
functionality are equally
informative, it is still better to avoid the stigmatized language.
A more descriptive designation than "good for blind" would be better for
blind users because they could better tell if it were really good for
_them_. And it would be better for sighted users because they, too would
have a better clue on which to choose to use or not use that function. And
it would be better for the blind users because not so many of them would be
offended by being singled out on the basis of what they may feel is an
infirmity, or may feel is looked down on by others.
Al
Hi, Al
I was taking a hypothetical stance. Basically, I was asking how
would he explain to the world why some features/options designed for
blind users should not be labelled so.
Have you looked at the control panel for windows 95/98? There is
an icon marked accessibility options. From my experience as a disabled
person and from comments I've heard from various blind people,
marking features as being appropriate makes it much easier to find
the features which would be of greater interest. As one blind man
told me, it can be hard for a blind person to find things. Anything
which helps to simply the searching process would seem to be of benefit.
(Watch blind people trying to find things on a web page.)
Indicating some feature as being of interest to a blind user is
more informative than not doing that and there is not equivalent.
A question to ask is whether it is more important to make a process easier
for a blind person by appropriate labelling or let them waste work/study
time in order not to single them out. Using a dog or cane already
singles them out. Maybe it's just the blind people I know, but
the feedback I'm getting is that ease of use would seem to be more
important.
Scott
aloha, scott!
to talk of quote stigmatization unquote and quote labelling unquote is a
non sequitor...
the question isn't quote what's in a name or label unquote, it is quote how
can one deliver content best suited to an individual's modality and
personal preferences unquote, and in my opinion, quote disability profiling
unquote is definitely _not_ the answer...
my opposition to your stance has nothing to do with the label blind, but
with a quote one-size-fits-all unquote server-side approach to tailoring
the presentation and ordering of content based on disability profiling...
i don't care what others call me (most of what i'm called falls into 2
categories -- 4 or 12 letter words -- anyway), and i personally prefer to
be called blind, rather than quote visually impaired unquote, a euphemism
which has never made any sense to me, for (at least to my ears) it sounds
as if it describes one of WCAG's main target audiences -- web designers who
are so distracted by what they are looking at as they put together a site
that they fail to realize that what an author sees (if he or she is capable
of visual perception) is not necessarily what a user gets served up on his
or her computer...
i do, however, object to being served up pages based solely upon such a
monolithic and inflexible classification -- to my mind, it is as
indiscriminate a way to serve content to a user as most of the
browser-sniffing which is performed today, which simply searches for the
string quote Mozilla unquote in the user agent header/declaration...
just my 2 cents,
gregory.
He that lives on Hope, dies farting
-- Benjamin Franklin, Poor Richard's Almanack, 1763
Gregory J. Rosmaita unagi69@concentric.net
WebMaster and Minister of Propaganda, VICUG NYC
Hi, Gregory
For the past five years I've worked with graduate students in understanding
how to evaluate designs of new products. One of the techniques is called
"scenario analysis". Basically, it's seeing whether an appproach
or design will work with various characters in differing situations.
I believe that part of the problem is that you have been looking at
what you would like, i.e. adjusting web pages via style sheets.
Look at how other blind people would respond in various web surfing
situations. Given the option of selecting a button which gives
a more-tailored web page or using style sheets, how many blind people,
besides yourself, would prefer style sheets? How many blind people
would prefer selecting a button and getting web pages which are
much easier to use, even if not exactly what they want? Would these
blind users be willing to accept that web pages are "good enough"
match for their needs and avoid the work of fine tuning?
A number of blind users are like you in that they liked the approach
that I took in redesigning the web page. It may not be exactly
what they would like. However, given the amount of work they
would had to put in, hitting a link or a button, and the significant
improvement in the web page's ease of use, my impression was that they seemed
satisfied. Again, from the feedback I got, this would seem to be a success
story in meeting users needs of improved ease of use with little
additional effort on the user's part.
Scott
