The address for the web site, discussed below is:
and it is easy to use, and nice and clean.
Amazon.com (Nasdaq: AMZN) on Thursday launched an alternative version of
its Web site, called "Amazon Access," that is designed to make online
shopping easier for customers who use screen access software. Screen
access software, which reads aloud text and links, is one of the main
tools used by the visually impaired to tap the Internet. Amazon's new
Web site is basically a streamlined version of its standard site, with
less text and graphics. "We created the site for our visually impaired
customers so it would be easier for them to navigate," Robert Frederick,
manager of Amazon Anywhere, told CRMDaily.com. Amazon has maintained a
text-only mode of its standard e-commerce site since it first went
online in 1995. However, many customers still were having trouble,
according to Frederick. "A number of Amazon's customers had either
e-mailed us or contacted customer service about the problems they were
having," he said. In response, the company created a specially tailored
site to meet their needs. "We wanted to make sure all of our customers
had the best shopping experience possible," Frederick said.
From: "David Poehlman" poehlman1@comcast.net
This is a good example of the disadvantage of having a "text only" copy of a
website for accessibility purposes. Apart from the argument that text-only
versions enforce segregation there is the underlying problem of keeping two
sites up-to-date.
For example, from http://www.amazon.com/ and enter "Accessibility" as the
keyword.
Do the same for http://www.amazon.com/access
For Books, the former returns:
1.) Maximum Accessibility: Making Your Website More Usable for Everyone
2.) CARM: California Accessibility Reference Manual
3.) A Basic Guide to Fair Housing Accessibility: Everything Architects and
Builders Need to Know About Fair Housing Act Accessibility Guidelines
while the latter returns
1.) Maximum Accessibility: Making Your Website More Usable for Everyone
2.) Web Accessibility for People With Disabilities
3.) Pocket Guide to the ADA: Americans with Disabilities Act Accessibility
Guidelines for Buildings and Facilities, Revised Edition
I would expect to get the same search results no matter which front-end I
used (since Amazon is largely a database driven website), but this seems not
to be the case.
Recalling from Joe Clark's book (which I'm reading at the moment) "Separate
pages are not equal".
Mike.
This is an unreasonable expectation. To be able to get to all the offerings
is a basic access requirement. That the search should identify the same
full bag of hits is probably a corrolary of this. That different previews
with different shortList sizes should always show the same top three; this
is not an accessibility requirement nor is it really a reasonable demand.
The filtering to get the subset shown first is based on guessing, and it is
not unreasonable for the guessing to be sensitive to the size of the subset
that fits in the particular view and the likely user preferences that go
with variant user demographics per view.
To demand the first three in a first page that shows only three to be
identically the same as the featured three on a first page that shows ten is
neither necessary, nor on closer examination is it in the user interest.
Al
PS: one controversial source of differences: sniffing
People can debate the ethics of the "mixed initiative" priorities that are
applied to what comes up at the head of the list, here. Even on Google you
get the sponsored links first.
The merchant's objective is to present you with something that you will
recognize as something you want to buy. Before you tire of the chase. Real
web wanderers are fickle, remember the conventional wisdom about how "if it's
not visible after three clicks, they're not going to find it."
So the site will apply everything it knows about you to guess your
preferences as to which of the hits you are more likely to want to buy.
These are just guesses, if you put clear logical guidance in the search, the
system will honor this. But you can't totally fault them for including all
available information when they are left to guess.
The hypothesis that it's more in the user's interest to have the site guess
than
not to let it guess is something that I've never seen a scientific study on.
But I wouldn't wager against it.
If you went to Amazon, you didn't want something that you wanted to buy to have
lain buried in the back room never passing through your "three clicks" of
visit.
So consider a bit before you expect total lockstep between views with different
information capacity and user-cost-per-entry-scanned characteristics.
Al
As a first time contributor I would have thought that the expectation to
get the same results from the same search term is a very reasonable one,
regardless of the type of site in use.
Suppose an unsighted user, using the accessible site, needed to pass on
search terms to a sighted colleague, using the standard site, so that they
could find the same set of results...
This strikes me as being another good reason why it's better to run one
site that works for all.
Phil "first timer" Potter
Yes, it is absolutely reasonable for a first time visitor to think this.
No, it is not reasonable for the accessibility community to demand this.
So, once again for the gang:
The user gets the same 181 books in either case.
The difference comes in how these 181 hits are segmented into partial reports.
The decisions that affect how many and which of these hits show up on the
first screen are reasonable to change when the user does it himself with a
machine reader or with a human reader who can scan a longer list of hits
quickly.
The two intermediaries have different performance characteristics and it is
appropriate for the service feeding the intermediary to act differently in a
way that improves end-to-end performance independenly in each case
(differing delivery contexts) without decreasing accessibility.
Accessibility in this case is the fact that you find the 181 hits and can
navigate to any of them.
Yes we care about usability and performance. But it is better to give the
best performance under the changing circumstances by changing the behavior;
rather than the same behavior that is best in one case and not best in the
other.
Al
It looks like the search algorithm used by both the graphical Amazon and
the 'access' Amazon are exactly the same.
A search for "Accessibility" on either brings back two sets of results:
a set of three 'Most Popular Results' as well as a full set of 181
results for the keyword.
You can see this on the graphical Amazon by clicking "See all 181
results" next to "Books:" after running your initial search. The page
you're taken to will show 3 "Most popular results for Accessibility"
(which match the first 3 you see on Amazon.com/access) and below that a
full indexed list of the 181 results.
This list of 181 is the same you see (in the same order) when you click
"More results" on the first Amazon.com/access results page.
So the only difference is that on the graphical side, the first page you
see (the one that shows matches in a variety of categories) shows the
top 3 results of the full list of 181, not the Most Popular Results.
Once you focus your search within a category, it's exactly the same.
You can see this by changing the setting of the category dropdown
selection from "All Products" to "Books" on both sites before typing in
"Accessibility" - you'll get the same results.
How opportune that you should make this point right now. This is of
course an argument in favour of mod_accessibility:-)
Nick Kew
A rather absurd statement.
That's excellent news. What is old news, however, is that the Amazon
Access experiment is an arse-backwards idea that can, under
easy-to-reproduce conditions, return different results from the real
Amazon page. Moreover, there are still things you can do on the real
site that you can't on the allegedly-accessible site. (Gold Box,
anyone?)
It's all been well discussed by now, you know.
Amazon has quite enough money and skill to have done things
properly. Or to have at least fixed its myriad mistakes-- to have
unmuffed it, one might say in the vernacular.
Joe Clark | joeclark@joeclark.org
Author, _Building Accessible Websites_
From: "Joe Parker" css@soiduts.com
Ahh, I stand corrected!
Thanks,
Mike
From: "Nick Kew" nick@webthing.com
of a
text-only
two
Indeed. Although I'm unqualified to comment on mod_accessibility at this
point - I probably need to download a copy and try it out in anger to see
what it can and cannot cater for. It is certainly a useful tool for the
problem it tries to solve -- allowing visitors to access inaccessible sites
(inaccessible with no legal nudge to make it accessible). I'd love to
promote this as a complete solution to the technical aspects of
accessibility problems, but that may probably both oversell and overhype (as
in it solves all accessibility problems) your solution and take away the
responsibility of website owners to be accessible -- in which case to the
detriment of the accessibility ethos as a whole.
I can certainly see mod_accessibility managing to deal with 80% of
technically inaccessible sites out there (just an application of the 80-20
rule), and it could go a significant way to making things a bit easier.
The drawback mod_accessibility faces is that it is totally dependant on the
markup originating from the inaccessible website. Obviously that's what it
has to do, but it is reliant on this source. So the common GIGO rule applies
all to well. AIUI mod_accessibility runs the markup through a normaliser,
and then performs a series of "simplifications" and "corrections".
I suppose its time for me to get off my lazy behind and give your solution a
go. You certainly have a lot of faith in it, and considering the faith you
have displayed in your other superb efforts, you haven't been wrong yet. :-)
I think that may be a bit over-optimistic. It cannot do anything about
information that isn't there, or is hidden away in Flash, PDF or (in
many cases) Javascript, nor can it add intelligent ALTs. In a sense it's
at its best when a page is already well-structured: for example, the many
long pages at www.w3.org would certainly benefit from the outlining
capability.
Basically right, but it's a little more than that - it can fetch some
information from elsewhere. But I'd regard its strongest point as
being the choice of views it offers. A user who is struggling with
a page can switch view at a single click or (if I sort out some
accesskeys) keystroke. In some cases, this might alleviate the GIGO
problem - though only experience will tell.
Thank you:-)
Nick Kew
