Up until now we have used various URIs to name DAV defined properties and
XML elements. To date we have used http://www.ietf.org/standards/dav/xxx and
are currently using http://www.iana.org/standards/dav/xxx. Both names were
arbitrary and were chosen based on the assumption that it would eventually
be possible to register URLs with either the IETF or IANA. In fact such a
project has been started by IANA but it is in its very early stages and is
not yet ready to handle registering XML schemas or DAV property names.
Furthermore there are very serious issues regarding who owns the schemas,
who has the right to change them, what they should be, what information they
should provide, etc. that are very far from being resolved.
As such I propose the creation of the new DAV URI namespace. This namespace
is NOT resolvable to anything. It can ONLY be extended by having the new
names published as an RFC. Its only purpose is to create a unique namespace
for use by the DAV standards.
I imagine three questions immediately come to mind:
1) Wait, what if someday I do want to be able to resolve the DAV names into
a retrievable schema?
No problem. The way we name everything in DAV is through the XML
namespace extension. The form of that extension is namespace name=DAV:xxxx
href=http://www.foo.bar/blah as="dav" . The name attribute is required and
is the unique name of the namespace, it MAY be a resolvable URI but does not
have to be. The href attribute is completely optional but if used it MUST
point to a resolvable URI which can provide the schema. Thus when the IANA
schema registration group is up to full speed it can issue URLs that can be
used with any DAV compliant system, new or old.
2) Why don't you use a URN namespace of the form URN:DAV:xxxx?
People who know me are especially likely to ask this question as I
am an unabashed fan of URNs. The reason for avoiding the URN namespace is
that the whole space is still being defined. For example, they only have "a
very drafty draft"
[ftp://ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-ietf-urn-nid-req-02.txt] on how URN
namespaces are registered. Additionally we are not proposing any mechanism
for actually resolving the DAV URI namespace so it seems inappropriate to
define a URN namespace with no provision for resolution. There is nothing
that stops us from coming back later, defining a URN:DAV namespace and
putting that value in href.
3) Wait, does this mean I can't name my XML elements or DAV properties with
arbitrary URIs?
ABSOLUTELY NOT. DAV is 100% compliant with the XML namespace
extension which allows for ANY LEGAL URI to be used to name either an XML
element or a property. As such you can use ANY URI you want. Thus, for
example, the Dublin group could define a new author property with a
namespace declaration of ?namespace
name=http://www.aiim.org/dublin/standards/properties/author as="dublin" .
This proposal ONLY effects the names DAV uses for the XML elements and
properties it defines.
All DAV needs for its own XML elements and properties is uniqueness, not
resolution. As such I propose we stick with the feature we need rather than
trying to go beyond to features that are certainly sexy but not necessary.
Yaron
namespace extension. The form of that extension is namespace name=DAV:xxxx
href=http://www.foo.bar/blah as="dav" . The name attribute is required and
is the unique name of the namespace, it MAY be a resolvable URI but does not
have to be. The href attribute is completely optional but if used it MUST
point to a resolvable URI which can provide the schema. Thus when the IANA
schema registration group is up to full speed it can issue URLs that can be
used with any DAV compliant system, new or old.
There is no XML name space extension mechanism such as described.
Regards,
Terry Allen Electronic Publishing Consultant tallen[at]sonic.net
Davenport and DocBook: http://www.ora.com/davenport/index.html
Having been on the wrong end of making categorical statements which are just
flat out wrong I won't dwell. However you may wish to learn from my
experience. Try saying things in the form of "Hum... I haven't seen this XML
name space extension mechanism before, where can I find a reference?" That
way if it doesn't exist you have made your point, but if it does, you don't
sound silly.
You can find the W3C announcement of this namespace mechanism along with a
link to the draft, in the post Jim Whitehead, our group chair, put out on
this group -
Yaron
From:Terry Allen [SMTP:tallen@sonic.net]
Sent:Saturday, January 31, 1998 7:29 AM
Subject:Re: Proposal for Changing Element and Property Names
Well, I don't sound silly, because there isn't an XML name space
mechanism. Look at the XML PR if you don't believe me.
Which refers to a "Note", which has no standing re the XML spec.
Terry Allen Electronic Publishing Consultant tallen[at]sonic.net
Davenport and DocBook: http://www.ora.com/davenport/index.html
Accidentally caught by the spam filter.
- Jim
As Terry noted, this has no force except as something to think about that may
or may not ever become a standard. It's about as definitive as a random
individual internet-draft.
I think I've posted about this to the list before. In any case, I've certainly
had some private mail with Jim about it.
In short, the namespace mechanism is not only not a standard yet; it's also
not a shoo-in for standards status, as msny (invlude me, I'm afraid) are not
convinced that there is a case that it meets a need not already met in XML. In
particular, the structured use of attribute values a la the SGML/HyTime notion
of "architectural forms" can meet the concrete requirements of namespaces as
they are currently stated. I'm not a big fan of the Architecture declarations
chosen by HyTime, but the same basic idea could be greatly simplified and still
meet the global uniqueness and semantics assignment requirements that _seem_ to
be the goals of namespaces. And they don't require any extension to the XML
syntax and thus to XML parsers.
The proposal is worth the effort XML has devoted to it (allowing ":" characters
in names, and reserving them for experimental use in case some namespace
proposal comes to pass). Whether anything will come of it remains to be seen.
At the moment extreme caution may be in order so that DAV doesn't end up being
held hostage to the standardization of a ferature that it may not even need!
I would be happy to post the thread Jim and I had in private if he doesn't
mind.
-- David
David Durand dgd@cs.bu.edu| david@dynamicDiagrams.com
Boston University Computer Science | Dynamic Diagrams
| MAPA: mapping for the WWW
