I have a few concerns I'd like to address about the current state of the
HTTP working group. I tried posting these Tuesday, but by mailing software
is malfunctioning.
First I'd like to plead for someone to give an overview of what happened at
the night meeting of the HTTP WG. Unfortunately, I had to leave early, and
the idea of waiting two months for minutes is unpleasant. As such, I have
some feelings on the last minute agenda change at the Dallas IETF meeting.
1) I think the addition was ill-timed. The entire Spyglass group had plane
reservations and hotel arrangements that required we leave in the late
afternoon. This is a small gripe, but we at Spyglass, myself in
particular, really, really wanted to participate, mainly because of the
issues I'm going to address later. 2) The structure of the Agenda that
pushed the bulk of the HTTP 1.1 to the 2nd session was horrible! No way
should we have spent the 1st session discussing the
tunneling/session-ext/payment/etc drafts. The HTTP 1.1 spec is THE issue
of this group.
The next thing basically is a process issue. Some of the informal hallway
conversations I had confirmed my suspicions that the current progress of
the group is insufficient. As I see it there are three things working
together to impede our progress. If only one of these things existed, it
would be perfectly acceptable, but together they spell doom: 1) the
addition by the editor of large surprises to the HTTP 1.1 draft without any
discussion in the working group, 2) the very infrequent revisions of the
spec, 3) the monolithic-kitchen sink nature of the document.
Now before you say: "Putting things in the I-D is the way to
submit an idea for consideration by the group!", I must reiterate: that
works fine if you have frequent revisions on a small doc and no one is
actually using the draft spec.
People are trying to code to these documents. The HTTP WG is not
responding to the needs of the marketplace. The addition of Logic Bags,
PATCH methods, two-stage responses and the like without both the input of
the group, and constant revisions of our "main product" is just not
workable.
I am calling for a rough consensus from this working group that the
best way to progress on HTTP 1.1 is to a) require any large additions
to the spec be discussed in this group - as a separate Internet Draft
if convenient - before any introduction, and b) we commit ourselves
to a somewhat only-what's-necessary Draft of 1.1 to get some kind of
consensus in a reasonable amount of time. There was also a sentiment in
Dallas that not only should big chunks not be added, but that the HTTP spec
should be broken up, and the more I think about it, the more I have to
concur.
I think I'll separate individual gripes about particular aspects of the
spec to a separate message, and I'll propose some potential break-outs
there.
Dan DuBois, Software Animal http://www.spyglass.com/~ddubois/
I absolutely do not speak for Spyglass.
Are you volunteering some resources?
Some venting in "post mortem" mode is healthy, but let's keep in mind
that this is a volunteer organization.
Some of your comments directly addressed works-in-progress, and I
appreciate those comments (I disagree with some of them -- in
particular, the notion that content negotiation is subordinate to the
main focus of the HTTP spec...)
But the general exhortations to the group aren't really all that
useful, are they?
Dan
Date: Thu, 07 Dec 1995 15:25:10 -0500
From: "Daniel W. Connolly" connolly@beach.w3.org
But the general exhortations to the group aren't really all that
useful, are they?
I think they are. It is quite a different thing to develop new standards
than to label as standard an existing practice. The former requires much
more work, organization, and a strong voice every now and then to bring the
flock back in from its wanderings.
It seems to me that both the HTTP and HTML WGs have yet to prove themselves
in terms of developing extensions to defacto standards that actually get
widely implemented. Thus, I think Daniel's remarks are quite apropos.
Regards,
Glenn Adams
I think they're somewhat useful, in that:
(a) the big changes to the spec do not seem to mirror the conversation on the
working group mailing list, or even to follow the process described
by Roy. (Are there working implementations of Unless and
logic bags that I don't know about? What about the new methods?)
(b) issues that have been brought up repeatedly in the working group
are not resolved by the spec. As the perpetrator of some of those
issues I am not going to harp on them more right now, except
to say that I think issues that could be resolved rather
easily are too often left unresolved.
(c) by ignoring things like Netscape's cookies, the working group
stands in danger of simply being bypassed by the market. If
the working group continues not to respond to such issues
(whether they've been submitted as I-D's or not) then it will simply
become irrelevant over time. I think it would be unfortunate
to abdicate control of this protocol to any single commercial entity
by such obvious inaction.
--Shel Kaphan
I am not quite as aggrieved as some people appear to be, but
I think there are several procedural issues that we need to
address. In some cases, even if we don't all agree that the
current procedures are broken, I think we should all agree
that as long as a substantial number of people are unhappy
about the procedures, that in itself is a problem.
Shel lists these issues:
(a) the big changes to the spec do not seem to mirror the
conversation on the working group mailing list, or even to follow
the process described by Roy.
(b) issues that have been brought up repeatedly in the working
group are not resolved by the spec.
(c) by ignoring things like Netscape's cookies, the working group
stands in danger of simply being bypassed by the market.
Daniel DuBois listed others, including (if I may paraphrase)
(d) it may be a mistake to introduce a large set of new
issues in the form of a monolithic I-D for the whole spec.
I would translate these concerns into specific recommendations
("constructive criticism"):
(1) Like it or not, some of us cannot attend IETF or WWW meetings in
person. The mailing list MUST remain the document of record. This
means that, while it makes a lot of sense to discuss things in
face-to-face meetings, those "owning" a specific and significant aspect
of the spec are duty-bound to summarize the discussions for the mailing
list in a timely manner.
What's the point of building the global Internet if we don't use it to
get our own work done?
(2) Someone in the "working group management" MUST maintain a list of
unresolved issues, preferrably as Web page so that people can check the
current status. I'm willing to let the WG chair(s) decide whether an
issue is resolved or not; that's necessary for forward progress as long
as they don't abuse this power.
(3) Major additions and major changes to the spec MUST be discussed
individually. In some cases, a separate I-D might be the best approach
(we can combine several I-Ds into a complete spec later on). In other
cases, simply describing the addition/change in a distinct email
message to the mailing list should suffice.
(4) To the extent that the spec involves both principles (such as
caching or anti-byte-deluge, for example) and specific implementations
of these principles, we SHOULD agree on the principles BEFORE
fighting over the specifics.
(5) Proposed additions and changes to the spec MUST be accompanied by a
written rationale, and SHOULD be accompanied by at least an attempt to
analyze the proposal with respect to possible alternatives. I would
like to see brief summaries of these rationales and analyses included
in the spec itself, since this would aid implementors in understanding
the spec, and would probably avoid some future arguments.
-Jeff
This is a great idea, but I've tried to do it, and found it to be
exceedingly difficult. I expect some suitably easy-to-use issue
tracking tools to hit the web any time now, what with all the
collaboration experiments and Java applets wizzing around.
If anybody has a solution they really like, please let me know!
This is another good idea. Again, I've found that it's a LOT of work.
I think you'd need another editor to take on the work of doing
a rationale. Any volunteers?
Dan
I'm sorry that the two-day delay in getting the minutes out for the
afternoon session have caused you some concern, but I promise I'll be
doing so soon.
I do think there've been concerns about the progress of the group so
far, but I hope that we've established a mechanism to make more rapid
progress. More news when the minutes are out.
I was of the impression that the standard time for minutes to be released
was around 6-8 weeks. I in no way meant to insinuate that someone was
moving slowly - I just thought there was some outside-the-WG IETF
bureaucracy behind the scenes with regard to minutes' distribution. I must
be working from 2nd or 3rd hand information.
Sorry, no offense intended.
Dan DuBois, Software Animal http://www.spyglass.com/~ddubois/
I absolutely do not speak for Spyglass.
This is a great idea, but I've tried to do it, and found it to be
exceedingly difficult. I expect some suitably easy-to-use issue
tracking tools to hit the web any time now, what with all the
collaboration experiments and Java applets wizzing around.
I'm not looking for any fancy tracking tools. I'm looking for a list
that is kept reasonably up-to-date by a human.
It doesn't even have to be in HTML format.
I think this is part of the task of the working group chair(s). It
someone has to make decisions about what goes on and comes off.
If anyone volunteered to maintain this list, they would effectively
be running the working group.
This is another good idea. Again, I've found that it's a LOT of work.
I think you'd need another editor to take on the work of doing
a rationale. Any volunteers?
Nonsense (with all due respect!). Anyone who writes a specification
should be expected to justify that specification. If the rationale
doesn't appear in the spec per se, it will be dragged out of the
spec writer on the mailing list (or perhaps at a meeting, but then
the whole issue will be re-opened on the mailing list by those of
us not lucky enough to attend).
I'm not arguing for a separate rationale document, I'm arguing that
all non-obvious parts of the spec should include some rationale
inline. Not a PhD dissertation; just something explicit.
-Jeff
I believe there is a fundamental difficulty where one person is both
an important design idea contributor and the editor of the consensus
design document. There is certainly a strong temptation to economize
on effort and record design ideas in the form of new text in the
design document with the idea of editing the stuff out later. Particularily
where it seems like the design represented in the document is broken.
The problem is however that this substantially increases the effort
required of all the other designers who must review the document to
learn about changes as opposed discussing the ideas, reaching concenus
and then only needing to review the document to insure it represents
concensus and looking for other issues of course.
I think many of us believe the draft is a group effort with an editor,
not design proposals from a designer. That I think is the basic conflict.
One which I don't have the resource to resolve. But unless some organization
can relieve Roy of part of the responsiblity or otherwise help him have more
time to devote to the process, I think we must attempt to be tolerant of
Roy's attempts to work efficiently AND perhaps Roy can help us feel more
like participants by making sure new ideas are presented to the list for
discussion. It is generally accepted that discussion will flow best if
each post consists of a single main topic so my suggestion would be that
concurrent with revealing a draft which includes new ideas, Roy would
provide a set of summary postings which briefly outline the new idea,
approach, etc along with page references or whatever in the draft.
If there is rationale or background or a problem statement not appropriate
(or simply not yet included) for the draft, that could be in the post.
Then the draft doesn't contain suprises and the discussion can be much
more focused. In turn those of us on the list can focus back on content
and not process and work effectively with Roy's efficiencies.
Just a 'long' idea...
Dave Morris
Now that people have vented about the WG process, I'd like to declare
the subject of 'Working Group' process off-limits, unless you've
discussed the WG process with the WG chairs (myself and Dave Raggett)
and still feel that you haven't gotten satisfaction. It's a matter of
saving the mailing list for technical issues.
It has been acknowledged that this is annoying, and I hope to make
sure that people won't feel left out of the process again. Still,
we're going to take the latest 1.1 draft as baseline, and propose
changes to it, even if those proposals mean winding back to 1.1.
I'd like to hear (privately) about any issues that aren't the subject
of discussion of any of the subgroups.
we're not ignoring it.
oh, it's certainly confusing, but I think 'mistake' is too strong.
Let's just agree that the current 1.1 draft is just a 'stake in the
ground' and that no one should attempt to code to it at the moment.
Agreed, 100%
However, for the most part I'm hoping we can handle this by
sub-groups. I'll keep a list of other issues, but I'll probably just
send it to the list from time to time. Send me (privately) any issues
that you think aren't handled by any of the subgroups (after the
minutes get out.)
I got in trouble before having too many I-Ds in the URI group, so I'm
wary of encouraging them. (Please ask before authoring a 'working
group' Internet Draft.)
people have trouble sometimes talking about principles in the absence
of implementation details. This sounds like a good idea but in
practice it's hard. Have some sympathy.
This is a nice idea, but we're often not up to it. If you have some
specific suggestions or questions on rationale that you think need to
be in the spec, please send them on as appropriate.
