We have a meeting this afternoon - +1.617.252.7000
Agenda question is whether we are going to have a face to face meeting and
where. Reminder that since W3C process requires 8 weeks notice of meetings we
need to get this organised pretty quickly if we are looking at October - so
we need dates, places, and hosts.
Also, we welcome Matthias Mueller-Prove from the Adobe GoLive team (the ue
should be a u-umlaut, but I don't have that in this keyboard setup) to the
working group. People who were at the face to face in Amsterdam will have
met Matthias already.
I will also briefly discuss the move to database-backing for the reviews
page, and when we can expect a testing document draft (soon I hope :-)
Please send regrets to the list.
cheers
Charles
W3C Web Accessibility Initiative http://www.w3.org/WAI
Location: I-cubed, 110 Victoria Street, Carlton VIC 3053
Postal: GPO Box 2476V, Melbourne 3001, Australia
Hi Charles,
on your new PowerBook press Option-U followed by another 'u'. This
enteres a '?'.
Hello everybody,
talk you soon,
Matthias
Matthias Mueller-Prove http://www.adobe.com/products/golive/
UI &amp; Software Design mprove@adobe.com mprove@acm.org
Adobe - Hamburg
CMcCN:: "...we need dates, places, and hosts."
WC(in another post today):: "Who could make a face 2 face working group
meeting October 5/6, also in Bristol."
WL: Chaaz meet Wendy. AU meet GL?? - now if we can just get EO there...
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
That would be great for me!
Cheers,
Jan
Jan Richards
Access Software Designer
Adaptive Technology Resource Centre
University of Toronto
Which is why this is on our agenda again today ;-)
Charles
CMcCN:: "...we need dates, places, and hosts."
WC(in another post today):: "Who could make a face 2 face working group
meeting October 5/6, also in Bristol."
WL: Chaaz meet Wendy. AU meet GL?? - now if we can just get EO there...
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
W3C Web Accessibility Initiative http://www.w3.org/WAI
Location: I-cubed, 110 Victoria Street, Carlton VIC 3053
Postal: GPO Box 2476V, Melbourne 3001, Australia
