Here is my summary of the new semantics initiative as I understand it so far:
There are two separable issues being discussed under this title:
o using a melange of model theories to define the semantics of SW
languages isn't going to work, as demonstrated by webont
o a mechanism for darkening some triples in a non-monotonic way.
I muddied the waters by introducing the second into this thread. That was
a mistake. This summary is just about the first issue.
It is proposed to produce a W3C note which outlines a strategy for defining
the semantics of SW languages in terms of Lbase, a representation of FOL.
A new deliverable by RDFCore WG is proposed. This will define the
semantics of RDF in terms of Lbase. It is proposed that this document is
in addition to the model theory document and will define exactly equivalent
semantics to the model theory.
This proposal is motivated by a concern that:
o model theory is hard: it will take a lot (more than available) of
expert effort for each SW language to define its semantics as a model theory
o it is not clear how the model theories of multiple SW languages can be
combined to provide a clear semantics for mixed language documents
The proposed new document is expected to have minimal effects on the
content of the RDF/XML syntax doc, the primer, the RDF schema doc and the
test cases doc and only minor effects on the model theory doc.
It is suggested that it is important to include this new deliverable in the
current round of deliverables by RDFCore so that it has normative status
enabling other WG's (webont?) to build on it. [I'm not sure about this one
- see below]
It is suggested that this new form of representing the semantics will be
easier for folks to understand.
Jos has tested the new proposal in Euler and found no bugs.
It is suggested that this is a harmless change; if it isn't adopted by say
webont, it will still do some good and no harm.
I have spoken to some of the webont folks here, (Horrocks, PFPS, van
Harmlen) and got a mixed response. One criticism is timing; a concern that
layering is a deep and hard issue that needs careful consideration, not
rushing in at the last minute.
I assume that the proposed new document is not normative as it is based on
Lbase which is defined in a note. Is this a problem? At least it ducks
the question of which is right if the axiomatic and model theory semantics
disagree.
I have a number of process concerns about this, in particular I would like
to ensure that the whole community expert in this issue is involved working
it out, but that doesn't sound like a good thing to do to RDFCore right now.
Brian
Brian,
You have summarized well.
As you point out, there are two distinct issues. One is that of dark
triples. We don't have a choice about that. If we want to allow webont
layering, without us or them getting non-monotonic, we have to provide it.
About axiomatic definitions of languages: I am not surprised at the
reaction of Peter F Patel Schnieder and Ian Horrocks. They have in the
past made it very clear that they do not, as a matter of principle, like
axiomatic definitions of languages.
I would like to get a wider sample, especially from the folks building
stuff (like Libby, Connolly, ...).
What we are proposing is relatively old-hat. There may be discussions
of style, but not of substance. So, I don't expect much time to get
spent on this. If anything, it will save us time by clarifying a bunch
of issues. Given the number of different folk who have responded saying
that it would be a useful part of rdf specs, even if it does not get
used by webont, I humbly propose that we do.
guha
I prefer an axiomatic approach inasmuch as it allows me to use
the machine to check my work etc.
I'm stil mulling over details of this approach; in particular,
stuff like
"Axiom schemes do not take the language beyond first-order, since all
the instances are first-order sentences and the language is compact, so
if any Lbase sentence follows from (the infinite set of instances of) an
axiom scheme, then it must in fact be entailed by some finite set of
instances of that scheme. "
-- http://tap.stanford.edu/SemanticWebSemantics.html
give me pause, as does:
"Since relations are first-class entities in Lbase, we can express this
relationship with an axiom:
(forall (?x ?y) (rdf:type(?x, ?y) = ?y(?x))) "
-- http://www.coginst.uwf.edu/%7Ephayes/RDF%28S%29_based_on_Lbase.html
I agree with Graham that...
"- in the description of axiom schemata, it is not clear how one is
expected to distinguish "schematic variables" from non-substitutable
values."
I'm quite happy with the "menzel indrection trick" in the present model
theory. I'm still noodling on the corresponding bits of the Lbase stuff.
Another technical reservation I have is committing to classical
negation. Based on discussion with TimBL and study of
systems like Isabelle, I don't think the law of the excluded
middle is a good thing to commit to for the semantic web.
I have to admit that I can't think of a way to make these issues
show up in RDF 1.0 nor RDFS. But the premise of this approach
is that the same base logic works for higher layers too.
Maybe I'll noodle on some test cases that involve webont-ish
vocabulary...
oops; stuff exploding around here; gotta go...
Dan Connolly, W3C http://www.w3.org/People/Connolly/
As for not using the rule of the excluded middle, etc. --- This is a
much bigger issue than axiomatic approaches vs model theoretic
approaches. The current model theories, from webont &amp; rdf, do assume
the law of the excluded middle.
WebOnt does, yes. But RDF's model theory doesn't have negation
at all... but... hmm... I suppose it does say that every
triple (and every graph) is either true or false in
every interpretation. Hmmm... I wish you hadn't pointed
that out; I wasn't worried about it before now. ;-)
If we leave that out, we will be quite
far outside the scope of classical logics. I have no idea where to
even begin broaching such questions in the W3C process.
I don't see how W3C process is relevant. This seems like
a technical issue; either I can convince folks of my
technical position or I cannot.
The odds seem pretty low, as you say,
and since it's not directly
relevant for RDF 1.0, I doubt I'll even try.
Dan Connolly, W3C http://www.w3.org/People/Connolly/
As for not using the rule of the excluded middle, etc. --- This is a
much bigger issue than axiomatic approaches vs model theoretic
approaches. The current model theories, from webont &amp; rdf, do assume
the law of the excluded middle.
OK, let me suggest that you worry less. As you say, RDF has no
negation. OK, so take a 2-valued interpretation, and re-interpret it
so that 'false' means something else, eg 'not known to be true' or
'false or undefined' or whatever takes your fancy as long as it
definitely does not overlap with 'true'. Since entailment refers to
satisfaction, which refers to truth, and there is no negation, what
we call the 'not-true' value for propositions isn't really germane to
the MT at all. You could interpret RDF intuitionistically or like LCF
(truthvalues are true and undefined) and it would have exactly the
same entailments.
Of course, this doesn't extend to anything that has even a smidgeon
of negation in it, such as DAML or OWL. But if you stay strictly in
RDF, nobody can force you to exclude your middle.
Pat
IHMC(850)322 0319 cell
40 South Alcaniz St.(850)202 4416 office
