When Mike Spreitzer spreitze@parc.xerox.com asked about
standardized authorization and authentication in HTTP something
rang a bell. I've been part of a group to implement authentication
and authorization using either static or one-time passwords
depending on the remote location and or resource requested for
an in-house system. We've had to overload return codes (4XX and
5XX), use convoluted HTML hacks, or create out of band
connections in order to achieve the simple challenge response
mechanisms that most of us are use to everyday when a
password has expired or a token needs resynchronized.
With the world moving more toward a browser as their desktop
for large scale collaboration efforts. How do we as developers
and content providers let a user know that his or her password
has expired or that they are required to change their password
because their temporary password was just that
"TEMPORARY"? You can make the providers / developers
write workarounds that use HTML / Java, but it's not fixing the
problem. The solution seems to be we add or enhance the
error returns that are in the protocol to allow for greater
flexibility.
What is the mechanism that will allow someone or group
to add new error codes to the HTTP protocol? Are the
individual W3O working groups like WWW security or
WEBDAV tasked with adding each of their own codes
and how do we referee the conflicts?
Some examples:
4XX Password Change Required
Self explanatory.
4XX Next Passcode or Token
For use with one-time password smart
cards like Axent or SecurID
4XX Reauthentication required
Arguably can use a 401, but this should allow
for more information to be displayed in the
pop-up / applet.
and I know there have been others that have bounced through this
list as well.
Just a thought before we close up shop!
Kevin Dyer
Kevin J. Dyer Draper Laboratory MS 35
Data Management &amp; Information Navigation Systems
is awaiting IESG announcement of an Internet-wide last call -- it
was LC'd at TLS-WG and here. It will establish a new IANA registry
for new reply codes.
Policies, forms, etc. can be found there...
Thanks,
Rohit
PS. I'm conspicuously ducking the question of whether your intended
application is "correct" or not; this is just an answer to the
question of "how"...
Thanks, I did notice the error registry component since the main topic of
the draft was TLS.
Question to the group: Should we set aside a block of error codes in each
range for local requirements? I compare this to
the reserved blocks of IP addresses for us behind
NATs or standalone systems.
Kevin J. Dyer Draper Laboratory MS 35
Data Management &amp; Information Navigation Systems
why dont you just use the HTTP authentication scheme system and make use of
the auth-info header ?
From: Kevin J. Dyer [mailto:kdyer@draper.com]
Sent: Monday, December 13, 1999 8:28 AM
Subject: Re: What's the mechanism for adding new error codes?
de-04.txt
-- it was
registry for new
