Hello,
I just noticed that Amaya allows documents to be saved
in html, text and xhtml. I believe xhtml is a
reformulation of html4 in xml1.0. Does that make it a
superset, subset or some strange variant of true-blue
xml?
I'm interested in xml because of:
- the separation of content and presentation
- styling possibilities with css and the like
- dtd for creating my own document vocabularies, if
needed
- agent-based processing of documents
- a large collection of public-domain and commercial
xml tools for things like validation, transformation,
agent-apis, etc, etc.
Can someone please confirm that the above-listed xml
benefits will indeed apply to Amaya generated xhtml
documents?
Thank You
Do You Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Photos - Share your holiday photos online!
[DJW:]
It's a use of XML in the same way as HTML (and
XML) are uses of SGML. XML defines a framework,
but you must actually define some elements before
it becomes useful; the same for SGML.
[DJW:]
HTML was supposed to have minimal presentation implications
and when the commercial browsers started violating this rule,
quite seriously, CSS was developed to try and remove presentation.
Ideally, HTML should have semantics but no guaranteed presentation.
XHTML is the same. XML and SGML don't even fully define the
syntax, let alone the semantics and need DTDs (or XML schemas) to
do this.
[DJW:]
As pointed out above, you can do that with HTML on an ideal
browser. I'll leave it to the Amaya team to say what is
hard coded in Amaya.
[DJW:]
XHTML becomes a namespace. I don't know how well Amaya supports
general namespaces. Again one for the development team.
[DJW:]
Amaya has no scripting support. I don't remember any
mention of XSL. Development team to confirm. Obviously, what
it produces can be manipulated by agents that do.
[DJW:]
Amaya is one of these.
[DJW:] By definition, pure XHTML documents cannot
include other namespaces. I suspect, however that
Amaya can mix namespaces (it can certainly mix in MathML),
and therefore create multi-namespace documents, not just
XHTML namespace ones.
Amaya cannot create badly formed documents. I don't remember
the DTD support needed to prevent invalid ones.
Amaya is a test bed for CSS!
I'm not aware of any transformation tools in Amaya, but any
third party tools ought to work on what it produces.
I sense that you have been sold the benefits of XML without
actually really being told what XML is.
--------------------------- DISCLAIMER ---------------------------------
Any views expressed in this message are those of the individual sender,
except where the sender specifically states them to be the views of BTS.
Not much. Default style for HTML pages is defined within Amaya.
This default style may be changed easily. It's defined in a single,
separate file (amaya/HTMLP.P), but it's not CSS. Formatting and
style for MathML is defined the same way (in file amaya/MathMLP.P).
You can use CSS style sheets, or the HTML style element, or the
HTML style attribute to change the default style with CSS.
Amaya provides general support for namespaces, I mean there is a
general mechanism for mixing various namespaces in the same document.
XHTML is really handled by Amaya as a namespace, as well as MathML or
SVG. In the latest release, you can author SVG documents (documents
whose root element is svg ) and in those documents you can include
pieces of XHTML or MathML.
Conversely, you can inlcude piece of MathML or SVG within XHTML pages,
or pieces of SVG containing MathML, and so on.
There is a limitation in the current version, though. Amaya can handle
only a few predefined namespaces: XHTML, MathML, SVG, XLink. And not
all those namespaces are fully implemented (only presentation part of
MathML, only a few SVG elements and attributes, only simple links from
XLink).
The Amaya team has plans for supporting any namespace, the style being
defined by a CSS style sheet. A future version will also allow several,
not predefined namespaces to be mixed in a single document. But don't
expect the editor to have a very smart behavior with those unknown
namespaces.
Right. There is no plan currently to embed an ECMAscript or XSL engine.
Right - see above.
And the implementation of CSS is not complete yet, but a reasonable
set of features exists.
Vincent Quint INRIA Rhone-Alpes
W3C/INRIA ZIRST
e-mail: Vincent.Quint@w3.org 655 avenue de l'Europe
From:help kl [SMTP:klhelp@yahoo.com]
[snip]
[DJW:]
Amaya has no scripting support. I don't remember any
mention of XSL. Development team to confirm. Obviously, what
it produces can be manipulated by agents that do.
Amaya has a transformation language. It would be interesting to see if the
interface used to handle that could be used to apply XSLT transformations,
since it is easier to find XSLT transformations for specific tasks, including
some quite complex ones. (e.g. converting an HTML table of data to an SVG
graph, which would be a good use case).
[snip]
[DJW:] By definition, pure XHTML documents cannot
include other namespaces. I suspect, however that
Amaya can mix namespaces (it can certainly mix in MathML),
and therefore create multi-namespace documents, not just
XHTML namespace ones.
Hmm. This depends on what you mean by pure XHTML. If you rely on DTD
validity, then this is correct, but the Namespaces in XML recommendation
provides a way to mix different XML namespaces in a document. There are some
tools that understand this - Amaya handles a selected set of namespaces, and
a number of RDF tools can manipulate the RDF information mixed into an XML
document using namespaces. XSLT tools also support mixed-namespace documents
(XSLT itself relies on mixed-namespaces).
cheers
Charles McCN
