I'm following this diskussion and wonder why
it is so often stated that Amaya is NOT a browser
(i. e. not primarily) but an editor.
I think Amaya is a fine browser as well, if you
want to browse e. g. a local text-only collection
and you want to edit it occasionally.
What I am really missing is the possibility
to switch the single/double-click behaviour for
browsing.
I think this should not be too hard ... in relation
to the problems which have been solved.
Maybe it's really a more political problem.
As we learnt that Microsoft is involved ... (???)
Please let Amaya be a browser as well ;-)
Regards
Roland
roland.bauer@fff.at
In-reply-to: Your message of Thu, 22 Apr 1999 10:02:37 +0200."
I don't clam that Amaya shouldn't used as a browser. I want just
to mention we know that Amaya miss some functionalities to be considered
as a good browser.
Our task force is limited and we clearly give priority to editing
functionalities.
That will be available in next release 2.0 we're preparing for the end
of this month.
There is no problem with Microsoft. Microsoft is a W3C member but doesn't
influence our developments. We choose to focus our activity on editing
just because we think that the Web should be a place where users are actors
and not only consumers.
Irene.
fine! thanks
roland
roland.bauer@fff.at
Opening the CVS base to the general public would probably help here.
That would allow interested parties outside of the W3C to develop Amaya,
reducing the load on the core team. The recent problems with the filename
of the document produced with "make book", and the installation locations
are good examples of problems that can be solved without great knowledge
of Amaya, and thus could be solved without distracting the core team to
any great degree.
Are there plans to make the CVS tree available soon (possibly to coincide
with the release of 2.0)?
Ewan Mellor.
Hi Ewan,
In-reply-to: Your message of Fri, 23 Apr 1999 11:09:42 +0100."
It's exactly our plans. The CVS base is ready and we will announce its
availability
with the release 2.0.
Irene.
That's excellent - thanks a lot.
Ewan.
