WAI Interest Group:
Please note that the User Agent Accessibility Guidelines 1.0
are currently undergoing last call review.
The last call review period ends 13 November 2000. W3C welcomes review
comments before that date, sent to w3c-wai-ua@w3.org . This review request
may be forwarded to non-W3C organizations.
These guidelines address accessibility of browsers, and other software that
retrieves and renders Web content. They are one of the three complementary
guidelines for Web accessibility produced by the W3C's Web Accessibility
Initiative; the other two guidelines are the Web Content Accessibility
Guidelines 1.0, and the Authoring Tool Accessibility Guidelines 1.0, both
of which are W3C Recommendations.
This last call draft addresses issues raised in a previous Proposed
Recommendation version of this document. Additional information on this
Last Call Review Request, and a copy of the formal last call notice, are
available at
Comments at the last call stage are most important towards stabilizing the
document before it re-enters the Candidate Recommendation (if applicable)
and the Proposed Recommendation stage.
Please note also the request for implementation reports included in the
formal Last Call review request.
The User Agent Accessibility Guidelines Working Group (UAWG) has also
published an updated version of the Techniques for User Agent Accessibility
Guidelines
on which the UAWG also welcomes comments at w3c-wai-ua@w3.org .
Thank you,
- Judy
Judy Brewer jbrewer@w3.org +1.617.258.9741 http://www.w3.org/WAI
Director,Web Accessibility Initiative(WAI), World Wide Web Consortium(W3C)
WAI Interest Group home page: http://www.w3.org/WAI/IG
Unsubscribe? Send "unsubscribe" subject line: w3c-wai-ig-request@w3.org
Questions? http://www.w3.org/WAI/IG/Overview.html#Uselist or wai@w3.org
Dear all,
What all is there (if defined categories are
there) in usability apart from accessability?
(talking primarily in web context)
Cheers
alokjain
Cognitive Consultant
Satyam Infoway Ltd
India
This mail sent through http://www.sify.com
Perhaps this is a bit too theoretical to be of much use, but I have thought
of a possible compromise for using images to represent text.
To designers, using style sheets is not a true substitute for using an image
file to display text. And the reverse is true for HTML purists. So perhaps
we could have the best of both worlds...
Adding an attribute to the image tag could help define the image as text,
which would still define the "meaning" of the piece of information such as:
Browsers could display the image for this element if the user has images
turned on, or could render the alternative being:
This would be an improvement for accessibility and designers. Designers
wouldn't have thier design destroyed if someone turns off images, and other
users would be delivered more meaningful content.
Just my $.02
-Ben Morris
This should be done as follows:
This already works in browsers like Lynx, but most graphical browsers keep an
image placeholder of the same size as the image, and just use a default
system font for rendering alt text.
Cheers
Charles
Perhaps this is a bit too theoretical to be of much use, but I have thought
of a possible compromise for using images to represent text.
To designers, using style sheets is not a true substitute for using an image
file to display text. And the reverse is true for HTML purists. So perhaps
we could have the best of both worlds...
Adding an attribute to the image tag could help define the image as text,
which would still define the "meaning" of the piece of information such as:
Browsers could display the image for this element if the user has images
turned on, or could render the alternative being:
This would be an improvement for accessibility and designers. Designers
wouldn't have thier design destroyed if someone turns off images, and other
users would be delivered more meaningful content.
Just my $.02
-Ben Morris
W3C Web Accessibility Initiative http://www.w3.org/WAI
Location: I-cubed, 110 Victoria Street, Carlton VIC 3053, Australia
September - November 2000:
W3C INRIA, 2004 Route des Lucioles, BP 93, 06902 Sophia Antipolis Cedex, France
Two concepts have appeared repeatedly in discussions of this question.
One concept is that it's not accessibility if the usability defect applies to
all, and does not have a discriminatory effect on people with disabilities.
The other concept has to do with differences in usability that make a task
longer or harder to do, but do not materially decrease the likelihood of task
completion.? In this circumstance, that is likely to provoke comments of
"that's usability, not accessibility."? This creates a distinction between
'accessible' and "equal access."? It may take longer to roll your chair up the
ramp than to run up the stairs, but that is the reasonable-accomodation
balance
point or tradeoff on access to buildings.
It may help to think of usability as a _quantitative_ assessment of how _easy_
a task is, and accessibility as a _discrete_, discussion of cases and remedies
where the easiness degrades to failure levels under person-with-disability
condition.?
Accessibility is in this view is metaphorically a special case of FRACAS -
Failure Reporting and Corrective Action System.
This gets sticky when dealing with cognitive issues, because cognition is deep
in the human processing of the human:computer dialog, and the associated
functional impairments tend to be diffuse and gradual, not as sharply
localized
in interaction phenomenology as those of sensory or actuation failure modes.
Al
AG::
That's OK for how to code in current technology, but "If I ran the Zoo"
solutions are also valuable to create and collect at this time.
Step past html:img and html:object to smil:switch. Then step back consider
how
it should work.
Sketches of "it would be good if it worked like this" will be useful to the
HTML Working Group as they consider how they re-baseline lots of things to use
X-Link. the OBJECT element is high on their list. Son-of-OBJECT could well
look something like what Ben is thinking.
What if an IMG had a TITLE and DESCription, each of which was hypertext, with
arbitrary markup captured within it, as a drawing subgroup (svg:g) now has in
SVG?
oups
Al
image
perhaps
http://www.w3.org/ http://www.w3.org/WAI
France
