Typos, trivial stuff, one issue (which is raised here because you've
carefully not said much about seeAlso &amp;co., so not necessarily a schema
problem)
1. Introduction
"As such, RDF data can resemble an entity-relationship diagram."
An instance diagram, maybe, but I think this sentence is empty and can
be struck. The traditional distinction between class and instance is
blurred by RDF.
2. Classes
"Note that if a class were the same thing as the set of its instances
then common (Zermelo-Fraenkel) set theory would prevent it being an
instance of itself."
This comes across more clearly in the MT; strike this sentence on the
grounds of being woolly.
"A class C is a subclass of a class C' if and only if all the instances
of C are also instances of C'."
Again, this is what the MT says, but I still find it incongruous that
classes have an intensional semantics yet the primary relationship
between them is extensional. I'd prefer a purely intensional definition:
"If a class C is a subclass of a class C', then all instances of C are
also instances of C'." See below.
2.1 rdfs:Resource
Formatting error. (no heading style?)
3.1 rdfs:range
"The triple
P rdfs:range C
states that P is an instance of the class rdf:Property, that C is an
instance of the class rdfs:Class and that the objects of triples whose
predicate is P are instances of the class C."
All those things are true as a consequence of the semantics document
(since rdfs:range rdfs:domain rdfs:Property is an RDFS axiomatic triple)
but does this triple _state_ all those conclusions or does it _entail_
them? because it only RDFS-entails these conclusions, not rdf-entails
them. Same comments (I think) apply to 3.2 and 3.3 (consider this
preemptive nitpicking)
3.2, 3.3 Heading formatting error.
3.4 rdf:subClassOf
"...is used to state that one class is a specialization of another."
No it isn't; it's used to state a subset relationship between their
class extensions. You've carefully pointed out the difference between
two intensionally distinct classes with the same extension in section 2.
Don't ignore it here. Using your example, consider the class of everyone
living in the UK as collected bythe tax office. Can you honestly say
that the post office's class of people at a particular "zip code" is a
speciali[sz]ation of that?
5.2 RDF Collections
SEMANTICS doesn't require that the collections structures are
well-formed. Do you want to point that out here? What is your answer to
the question, "are RDF Collections required to be well-formed?"
5.4.1 rdfs:seeAlso
You carefully don't say much here, which is good. However, I think this
raises an issue which we should address (even if it's to punt) before or
as part of LC:
If a resource is named by something that looks like a URI,
then what expectations can we have about that? If we (through
some process) dereference that URI, what can we expect to
see? Ie, is there any expectation (and if so, when) that
the use of a web address to name something means that we
can get a description of the named thing by dereferencing that
address? Or does the web address name the description
itself?
Consider this a last-call comment (to speed things along, ie get to LC)
but I think we're doing the semantic web a disservice by not addressing
this question - even if "addressing" the question involves punting to
TAG. One explicit approach would be to introduce an explicit set of
properties along these lines:
eg:something rdfx:URI "eg:something-else"^^ xsd:uri .
Same comments apply to 5.4.2; although the wording is careful here too.
6.1 RDF classes
rdfs:Resource comment doesn't look like an English noun phrase.
rdf:List: "The class of RDF Lists." What's an RDF List? You've talked
about containers and collections. "The class of internal nodes/resources
in an rdf collection" maybe? Or something else, anyway.
jan grant, ILRT, University of Bristol. http://www.ilrt.bris.ac.uk/
I see no reason to constrain objects of rdfs:seeAlso to web
accessible resources. I would consider it acceptable to
refer to e.g. a person, organization, printed book, etc.
as a related resource.
The nature of the associated resources can be described
further, to clarify whether they are web accessible etc.
Cheers,
Patrick
Jan,
In the light of your comments, I propose the following changes to the last
call candidate:
strike:
[[As such, RDF data can resemble an entity-relationship diagram.]]
strike:
Note that if a class were the same thing as the set of its instances
then common (Zermelo-Fraenkel) set theory would prevent it being an
instance of itself.]]
replace:
[[states that P is an instance of the class rdf:Property, that C is an
instance of the class rdfs:Class and that the objects of triples whose
predicate is P are instances of the class C.]]
with
[[states that P is an instance of the class rdf:Property, that C is an
instance of the class rdfs:Class and that the resources denoted by objects
of triples whose predicate is P are instances of the class C.]]
replace
[[states that P is an instance of the class rdf:Property, that C is a
instance of the class rdfs:Class and that the subjects of triples whose
predicate is P are instances of the class C.]]
with
[[states that P is an instance of the class rdf:Property, that C is a
instance of the class rdfs:Class and that the resources denoted by subjects
of triples whose predicate is P are instances of the class C.]]
replace
[[...is used to state that one class is a specialization of another.]]
with
[[ ... is used to state that all the instances of one class are instances
of another.]]
replace
[[The property rdfs:subPropertyOf is an instance of rdf:Property that is
used to specify that one property is a specialization of another.]]
with
[[The property rdfs:subPropertyOf is an instance of rdf:Property that is
used to specify that all resources related by one property are also related
by another.]]
Brian
I tend to agree about striking that sentence.
Again, I'm tempted to agree and would suggest it goes now.
That is not what we have decided.
Fixed
There is a use/mention error there. That should be "the objects of
statements ..." since the object of a triple is a URI. I propose fix
before last call.
OK, I'll ignore it.
fixed
Right. That should be fixed.
Not by RDFS, but I don't want to draw attention to it.
We are going nowhere near that. Way outside our charter.
Look at the second sentence of the primer abstract. "[RDF] is
particularly intended for representing metadata about Web resources,
such as the title, author, and modification date of a Web page,
copyright and licensing information about a Web document, or the
availability schedule for some shared resource."
BUT throughout all our LCC documents, we repeatedly say that, as far as
RDF is concerned, there is nothing apart from an accidental relationship
between a URIref used to denote a resource in RDF and what the web
considers to be named (or addressed) by that URIref. That is, that RDF
is agnostic about any such relationship.
Yet many of our examples and text gives the lie to this. It's clear also
that WG members seem to think that there's more going on. Paraphrasing
DanC from a recent telecon: "that [URIref used to name a test case]
404's, that's no good, that must be fixed." Yet _nothing_ in the RDF
documents we've produced supports DanC's position on this. In fact,
Appendix A of the primer explicitly shoots it down.
OK, you might rule this outside our charter. But if RDF forms the bottom
layer of the semantic _web_, where does the responsibility for answering
this lie? At some higher level?
It seems that in RDF in the wild, sometimes a URIref-labelled resource
is used to denote a thing that you can get a description about using
that name as a web address. Sometimes it denotes the description itself.
And sometimes it denotes something else entirely. But there's no
mechanism or machinery to support this, and the issue is rarely even
mentioned.
If it's not RDFCore's job, then it's certainly a TAG job, and I would
hope that this issue can be raised as a matter of priority. There's a
tech plenary coming up soon - maybe there?
Please consider this a last call comment (in advance). We currently
don't stay silent on this, we instead say "it's not our job". That
answer doesn't suffice - it needs to identify _whose_ job it is to
provide an answer on this.
Cheers,
jan
jan grant, ILRT, University of Bristol. http://www.ilrt.bris.ac.uk/
Semantic rules, OK?
From: ext Jan Grant [mailto:Jan.Grant@bristol.ac.uk]
Sent: 15 January, 2003 13:35
Subject: Outside our charter, was: Schema LCC review
I don't think we need to say anything more than we have
said, especially since this involves an open debate and
nothing more can be said reliably.
I consider it the TAG's job to resolve/clarify this issue.
Patrick
Technically, it's not what "the web" considers to be named by the
URIref, it's what the "owner" of the URIref considers to be named by it.
Also, there isn't really a problem when the "owner's" interpretation
of a URIref as far as RDF is concerned ("it identifies my home page") is
the same as the (HTTP)web's interpretation of that URIref when you plug
it into a browser ("it identifies a web page"), right? It's just the
case when the URIref is "overloaded" that creates the issue.
I don't know that the Primer is all that explicit about shooting it
down. The Primer (in Section 2.3) points out that when a URIref is
overloaded like this, it creates some ambiguity, and (in Appendix A)
points out that although this is a convention that is sometimes used,
RDF (per se) doesn't *assume* this convention.
Certainly I agree that the link between RDF (and OWL, and ...) and the
original Web (the one consisting of resources that can be retrieved if
they have http URIrefs) is really important, and needs to be thoroughly
worked out. However, I think we've done our job if we point out the
issue (Concepts has some text on this too). I don't see this as an
abdication of responsibility: we haven't been given the responsibility
to deal with this, and there may be ways of doing so that we haven't
thought of yet, so I don't think we ought to be seen to be biasing the
future direction. I seem to recall Tim Bray, among others, not being
overly disturbed about this situation. Again calling on my memory, I
believe he thinks additional descriptive information *about* the URIref
as being a way to handle this, and I think he has a point. This could
be considered an issue of the "role" the URIref was playing, and roles
could be described in RDF.
I agree that "it's not our job" doesn't suffice as an *answer* (and as
I've said above, I agree with you about the importance of this), but it
is in fact the truth. It's also not our job to designate whose
responsibility it is, and in a sense it would be misleading for us to do
so. What you might consider doing as a thought-experiment is thinking
about what text you would like to see in RDF documents that fully
resolves this issue to your satisfaction, and then thinking about
whether the rest of the W3C would think it an appropriate action of the
RDF Core WG to appear to commit the W3C to those things in its
specifications. Alternatively, if you can come up with text that at
least identifies the issue more clearly than what we currently say, we
could certainly consider inserting it in appropriate documents during
Last Call.
One man's opinion.
--Frank
Frank Manola The MITRE Corporation
202 Burlington Road, MS A345 Bedford, MA 01730-1420
About the uriref (or about the resource node labelled with it), I was
thinking along much the same line.
Cheers, Frank, I'm certainly thinking about that.
And an astonishingly reasonable one at that.
jan grant, ILRT, University of Bristol. http://www.ilrt.bris.ac.uk/
( echo "ouroboros"; cat )  /dev/fd/0 # it's like talking to yourself sometimes
