I compared the list of checkpoints included in the tool with the
checkpoints in WCAG. Here's what I found:
1. there are 16 P1 checkpoints in WCAG, 6 of those show up in the report tool.
2. The report tool has 19 checks:
WCAG checkpoint 1.1 is represented twice.
8 checks are p1.
9 are p2 (one of these is sometimes a p3)
1 is a p3
1 is "other"
3. there are 10 WCAG P1 checkpoints missing.
I propose that we modify the tool so that at least all P1's are checked
for. A second form could contain all of the P2's and could be skipped. A
third form could contain all of the P3's and could be skipped. If not all
three forms are filled out, the report that is generated should make it
clear that there are other levels that could have been checked but were not.
--wendy
This depends on who your intended audience is; who is supposed to use the
form. On the one hand, it could be for consumers with one beef about a
particular site. Then the idea could be to put some authoritative and
technically useful information behind the first round of "this site should
be better!" If that is the target audience, then the present setup is
already too busy, and the form should approximate the QuickTips in complexity.
Who do you imagine using the report generator form?
Al
aloha, al!
if the report form is already too complex for the quote average unquote user
who just wants to tell the maintainers of a site quote hey, i can't use your
site, because [fill in generalities here] unquote, then perhaps we need 2
interfaces -- one for general complaints (i use speech and i can't use your
site, or i use lynx and i can't get at your usenet search feature) and an
advanced form for those who have more precise technical knowledge and/or a
familiarity with WCAG...
daniel, i can hear you shuddering at the thought, and so, if the ER-IG can come
to some consensus as to what each interface should include slash exclude, i
would gladly take responsibility for encoding the form-based front ends for
each...
gregory.
He that lives on Hope, dies farting
-- Benjamin Franklin, Poor Richard's Almanack, 1763
Gregory J. Rosmaita unagi69@concentric.net
WebMaster and Minister of Propaganda, VICUG NYC
Hi,
If we have two forms (which I'm not opposed to) how will a user decide
which one they want to use? I think it will add one more step to the
process, but if it is does well i don't think it will be a problem.
One possibility:
[] I want to give a technical review of the site. Note: knowledge of HTML
and WCAG required.
[] I want to give general feedback about the site.
I do not know if these are the best ways to say this,but it's a start.
thoughts?
--wendy
aloha, wendy!
i'd much prefer an introductary interface such as the one you described than
simply having a link to an "advanced" feedback form...
as for wording, rather than quote I want to give general feedback about the
site. unquote, might we say:
I want to let the site's maintainer know that I can't use the site
or words to that effect? i fear that the term quote general feedback unquote
is too vague...
gregory.
He that lives on Hope, dies farting
-- Benjamin Franklin, Poor Richard's Almanack, 1763
Gregory J. Rosmaita unagi69@concentric.net
WebMaster and Minister of Propaganda, VICUG NYC
Gregory,
I like your proposed text.
--w
I'll 'second' that; nice, easy to understand text.
-Brian Gasless since 5/99!
28,600+ EV miles since 5/97! See web page:
