General reaction: very good. Thanks, Jon and Ian.
Nits:
Abstract
a. Para 2, last sentence
The appendix is available as either a tabular summary of checkpoints or as a
simple list of checkpoints
This appendix is available both as a tabular summary and as a simple list of
checkpoints.
[re: checkpoint list/table: check consistency of initial caps used on
headings.]
b. Abstract, Para 3, ... not all browsers or multimedia tools Xmay Xsupport
the features described in the guidelines.
Table of Contents
Final para: "The appendix list of checkpoints ...
[Neither appendix is in TOC. Not clear that it is an appendix. Perhaps
refer to them just as Checkpoints, analogous to Techniques.]
1.1 Principles of Accessible Design
Ensure that the user interface is accessible.
Para 2.
The general topic of user interface accessibility for computer software
exceeds the scope of this document.
I question that disclaimer. Nowhere else to my knowledge is this topic
covered, and I think that is our charter. Given it, though, I believe
mention that the UA-TECHNIQUES document indicates current user interface
accessibility suggestions is appropriate.
Help Orient the User
UL 2, LI 1.
...how many links the document contains or the number of the
current link.
I don't appreciate why the "number of the current" link is useful. What if
some links reoccur? Are they counted? First occurrence number used?
UL 2, LI 2.
... "how whether the document has finished loading"
should be "when has the document finished loading"
[Should a "download progress" indication be available?]
[Should we include a suggestion to download text and ALT="..." before images?]
Follow system standards and conventions.
Implementing interoperable standards (such as those produced by W3C)
W3C produces Technical Recommendations, not standards.
2. How the Guidelines are Organized
last Para.
Each checkpoint is intended to be specific enough so that someone reviewing
a page or site may verify that the checkpoint has been satisfied.
Should refer to user agent, not page or site.
3.1 Conformance
Conformance claims
Suggest remove ";" from ends of each UL LI
[Suggest if dependent UA, further qualify limits expected by that UA.
Final Note:
[Do we expect that the dated version of the guidelines will drop the
date in the event this document becomes a W3C Recommendation?]
4. User Agent Accessibility Guidelines
Para 1
Input devices include pointing devices, keyboards, braille devices, head
wands, microphones, and others.
Input devices [add: touch screens]
Output devices may include monitors, speech synthesizers, braille devices, and
printers.
[add: force feedback graphics, refreshable "paper" (is that device or media?]
Please note that "device-independent support" does not mean that user agents
must support every input or output device. User agents should offer redundant
input and output mechanisms for those devices that are supported. For example,
if a user agent supports keyboard and mouse input, users should be able to
interact with all features using either the keyboard or the mouse.
[? I am uncertain that mouse needs to provide all keyboard capabilities?]
1.3 _active elements_ needs link to glossary
[General questions:
How handle the bootstrap process to get started: what can be assumed:
operating system, file system, available device "plug &amp; play"?]
2.4 Allow the user to configure element sets for various navigation
mechanisms. [Priority 2] For instance, allow the user to choose which element
types to navigate sequentially (e.g., links alone, links and headers, headers
and lists, etc.). Similarly, allow the user to choose element types for direct
navigation and searching.
[Choices should be dynamic, and readily changed to match the user's current
desires.]
3.2 Describe product features known to promote accessibility in a section of
the product documentation. [Priority 2]
[How find these initially?]
4.8 Allow the user to turn on and off support for scripts and applets.
[Priority 1]
Note. This is particularly important for scripts that cause the screen to
flicker, since people with photosensitive epilepsy can have seizures triggered
by flickering or flashing in the 4 to 59 flashes per second (Hertz) range.
[I believe european frequency is 50 Hz. I expect that 59 Hz value was picked
to be just below the 60 Hz. US/Canadian AC power frequency. I note that
the effective 30 Hz of US TV interlace seems to violate the above as well.
This should have been caught in the Web Content Guidelines.]
4.10 Allow the user to turn on and off support for author style sheets.
[Does this mean substitute for author style sheets, in part or completely,
using the CSS cascading and IMPORTANT indications?
Or was the intent: audible, rather than author? If author, should audible
style sheets be a separate list item?]
4.13 ?automatic page forwarding?
[I'm unfamiliar with this, is it a "feature" of existing browsers?]
5.8 Allow the user to control video frame rates.
[That presumes adequate net support for bandwidth and non-interruption.]
5.11 Allow the user to control audio playback rate.
[That presumes adequate net support for bandwidth and non-interruption.]
[Suggest for parallelism with 5.8-5.9 that 5.13 come before 5.12.]
6.8 Allow the user to specify that captions for audio be rendered
at the same time as the audio.
[replaced "at the same time" by "synchronized with"]
[Similarly for 6.11 and 6.12]
Guideline 7...
Note:
[why is the style for the selection and the focus link different from
that for active elements?]
7.2 Keep track of the user's point of regard ...
[point of regard should be a link]
7.5 Allow the user to navigate directly to active elements in the document.
[Priority 2] For instance, the user might navigate directly by selecting the
number of a link or by entering the first letter of link text.
[Why would these numbers on links (or of links) be known?
In the case of repeated first letters of link text that are repeated,
move to next so-starting, case independent.]
7.6 Allow the user to search for active elements. [Priority 2]
[active elements should be link]
8.5, 8.6 make link of viewport
8.8 For dependent user agents. Allow the user to view a document outline
constructed from its structural elements (e.g., from header and list elements).
[Priority 2]
[Not all list elements have any identification that would help to
differentiate structure.]
8.9 ...[from] the document root.
8.16 Make available whether a chosen link has already been visited.
[even if multiple instances of that link occur in the document.]
11.1 For desktop graphical browsers. Use and provide accessible interfaces to
other technologies. [Priority 1]
To promote interoperability, open standards should be used wherever possible.
[open standards or W3C recommendations]
Native support A user agent supports a feature natively if it does not require
another piece of software (e.g., plug-in or external program) for support
[Native support does not preclude more extensive support by AT, so the
interface for that support may still be needed.]
General: reference to [TECHNIQUES] should probably be to [UA-TECHNIQUES]
as there are other techniques documents.
End: Suggest that [checklist] should show both the table and list forms
separately
Regards/Harvey Bingham
(Note: I've integrated Harvey's comments that are unanswered
here into the document for the next revision.)
They are actually in the TOC, but not in the UL of the TOC
(because they are external documents and I wanted to distinguish
them). Thus, after "6. References" of the UL , the following statement
indicates they are appendixes:
The appendix list of checkpoints is available as either a
tabular summary of checkpoints or as a simple list of
checkpoints. "
There are more references to the fact that these are appendixes
to this document in the Status sectino.
1.1 Principles of Accessible Design
Ensure that the user interface is accessible.
The general topic of user interface accessibility for computer software
Charles is working on a W3C Note that will include references to
vendor-specific guidelines for software accessibility. I would
like to refer to that Note once it's available.
Help Orient the User
...how many links the document contains or the number of the
This is meant to refer to element instances (not link text or link
destinations). Thus, every "A" element is numbered (uniquely). It's
useful to know that I'm on the 75th link of the document if I
have a navigation mechanism that lets me return to it (by number).
I admit, this is very technique-y as it suggests numbering links
as a way of letting readers know where they are. There are undoubtedly
other techniques. For this reason, I question whether these
checkpoints should be checkpoints at all (to be discussed at the
23 June teleconf).
Refer to checkpoint 8.14
This could appear in the techniques document, but in my opinion
goes to far in suggesting an implementation. The purpose of the
checkpoint is not to ensure fast downloads (though this is interesting)
but to provide a measure of progress (whatever the speed).
3.1 Conformance
Conformance claims
I'm not sure what this means. Can you give an example?
No. Conformance will refer to a specific, frozen version of the
specification, not the latest version.
4. User Agent Accessibility Guidelines
Please note that "device-independent support" does not mean that user agents
That's an interesting point. For example, must I be able to type
via the mouse (e.g., by using an entry palette)?
For generality, we should not assume an operating system or
file system (e.g., when using a kiosk). Where should we mention this?
3.2 Describe product features known to promote accessibility in a section of
There is information about this in the Techniques Document
(3.9.1 of 11 June version).
4.8 Allow the user to turn on and off support for scripts and applets.
Jon has flagged this as an issue for discussion.
4.10 Allow the user to turn on and off support for author style sheets.
I would suggest that "support for author style sheets" means that
they are parsed and cascaded with other style sheets according to
the style sheet spec. Turning off support would mean they are ignored.
4.13 ?automatic page forwarding?
Some browsers support META element declarations such as this:
After a 5-second delay, the new page is loaded.
5.8 Allow the user to control video frame rates.
It sounds like there are two scenarios: streamed video and
local playback. Does is matter which type the user is viewing?
5.11 Allow the user to control audio playback rate.
6.8 Allow the user to specify that captions for audio be rendered
I think "at the same time" doesn't mean "synchronized with"
in this case, but rather that both are rendered. In other words,
when captions are available (and as captions they are
already synchronized), all the user to view them while the video
is running (as opposed to captions-only).
The focus is a mechanism used to identify active elements. It may
not be the only mechanism.
7.5 Allow the user to navigate directly to active elements in the document.
See comment above about numbering "A" elements.
8.8 For dependent user agents. Allow the user to view a document outline
Which list elements are those? I think the word "element" is supposed
to suggest markup.
8.16 Make available whether a chosen link has already been visited.
A "chosen link" means a particular A element, not the content
of the element or the destination of the link.
Thank you for the comments Harvey!
- Ian
Ian Jacobs (jacobs@w3.org) http://www.w3.org/People/Jacobs
The appendix list of checkpoints is available as either a
Interesting extension of the word "appendix". My book-centric
use is appendix in the same document. Why bother to call these
external documents "Appendices?"
3.1 Conformance
Conformance claims
Old screen readers went across table cells as they knew not of the possibility
to fold cell content onto multiple lines.
That DUA only serves a particular class of use, and presumes some information
in its dependency with the general UA. How is that interface specified?
4. User Agent Accessibility Guidelines
Please note that "device-independent support" does not mean that user agents
So far as I am aware, that capability was omitted from XMetaL 1.0, possibly
to be put back into XMetaL 2.0. It was available in HoTMetaL, I believe since
version 3. It and the other accessibility features of that product never got
any mention in any product reviews, so their inclusion in the first product
of SoftQuad Software, Inc. was less important than getting to market with
a product.
Not sure. Without assumptions, what can we say about making that process
accessible?
4.10 Allow the user to turn on and off support for author style sheets.
4.13 ?automatic page forwarding?
That "automatic page forwarding" remains semantically confusing. Can we
describe it differently, or expand the description. The "forwarding" part
implied to me that I will somehow be doing the forwarding. "Refresh" is
the concept that asserts server-side action. How about
"automatic refresh to a different page content after a time delay"?
Good point. The issue remains at what granularity is the synchronization,
or "at the same time". I guess I read more into "at the same time" than
just "concurrently".
8.8 For dependent user agents. Allow the user to view a document outline
In the DOM sense, structure and sibling sequence preserves structure.
Unordered list items may have no presentational differentiation. Nor may
definition list terms. For these, the sequence of occurrence might be
used associated with a count of position for that otherwise undifferentiated
structure.
8.16 Make available whether a chosen link has already been visited.
My proposal would mark all occurrences of a visited link, if any one were
visited.
Regards/Harvey
