There are a couple of contradictions (tiny and inane ones) between WCAG 1.0 and XHTML specs.
XHTML 1.0 Strict and XHTML 1.1 deprecate LANG attribute ( html lang="en" ), in favour of html xml:lang="en" .
However WCAG 1.0 specifies:
11.1 Use W3C technologies when they are available and appropriate for a task and use the latest versions when supported
11.2 Avoid deprecated features of W3C technologies.
Although this is ridiculously pedantic, this basically states you cannot use XHTML 1.0 Strict or XHTML 1.1 with a WAI compliant site, yet WAI states you must use the latest technology. I'm only really raising it because the gizmos like Cynthia Says and Bobby fail a site if you don't have the lang attributes. I suggest the code is modified to search for just 'lang=" lang "', whether it is 'lang="en"' or 'xml:lang="en"'.
ATM, in order to 'pass' tests, you have to use XHTML 1.0 Transitional and put html lang="en-gb" xml:lang="en-gb"
Personally I think this is all useless anyway, since a global declaration is really the responsibility of the following META tag:
The lang or xml:lang attribute should only be used when the language changes mid-stream as such (assuming the english META had been declared):
kind regards
Jules
Hi Jules,
I'm not sure I follow your argument. Validators don't set standards. They
just perform basic tests where they can. Both Cynthia Says and Bobby will
pass an XHTML Strict document with an xml:lang attribute.
Best regards.
Gez
Supplement your vitamins
Web: http://www.juicystudio.com
Keeping developers informed!
1.0 and XHTML specs.
lang="en" ), in favour of html xml:lang="en" .
task and use the latest versions when supported
use XHTML 1.0 Strict or XHTML 1.1 with a WAI compliant site, yet WAI states
you must use the latest technology. I'm only really raising it because the
gizmos like Cynthia Says and Bobby fail a site if you don't have the lang
attributes. I suggest the code is modified to search for just
'lang=" lang "', whether it is 'lang="en"' or 'xml:lang="en"'.
put html lang="en-gb" xml:lang="en-gb"
is really the responsibility of the following META tag:
changes mid-stream as such (assuming the english META had been declared):
p class="bodyText" The governor of the Bank of England took a span
xml:lang="fr" laissez-faire /span attitude to raising interest rates /p
As is recommended by the appendix on backwards compatibility with XHTML1.0.
You could personally delete every user-agent in the world that recognises lang
but not xml:lang, and we'll all be grateful. Otherwise we're going to need
transitional techniques.
Why use a make-up-as-you-go along meta element when there is a standard
attribute? Why would you expect the meta element to work?
Dublin Core in RDF/XML, only for user-agents that care about metadata and not
the content.
Why have a global version of anything that can be scoped - just use the scoped
method in the widest scope.
So it you have this there, then what do you gain by inventing a new technique?
Given that this is in addition to the HTTP content-language headers and in
addition to Dublin Core I really can't see the point of any of this.
Jon Hanna | Toys and books
http://www.hackcraft.net/ | for sick children:
http://santa.boards.ie/
Yes. Or, in other words:
- If you are using HTML, apply the LANG attribute.
- If you are using XHTML, apply the xml:lang attribute.
I don't see the problem here.
Don't you mean the HTTP header ?
- Tina Holmboe Greytower Technologies
tina@greytower.net http://www.greytower.net/
[+46] 0708 557 905
There isn't any contradiction. There are, as you point out, bugs in
some tools which don't properly recognise language tagging as specified
(but they are testing tools - no worries with users' tools...).
correct method for all XML (including XHTML) is to include the xml:lang
attribute as appropriate. The correct method for HTML (up until
bugwards-compatible XHTML 1) is the lang attribute. You should also
have your server sending out HTTP information identifying the
Content-language correctly.
Cheers
Chaals
On Wednesday, Dec 3, 2003, at 04:06 Australia/Melbourne, Julian Vallis
No it doesn't. It says that in XHTML 1.0 Strict, or XHTML 1.1, you
should use xml:lang not lang, since that has been deprecated. It also
states that you should be using XHTML 1 or 1.1, as you noted.
Good suggestion. There is a mailing list for the WAI Evaluation and
Repair Tools group - http://www.w3.org/WAI/ER for more information -
which is where you might get the attention of the developers. Most of
them also have a feedback mechanism as part of their tool sites. Few of
them read this list.
The tests you are ''passing' are clearly flawed...
That is not correct. The specifications are pretty clear about that.
For changing language mid-stream this is indeed the way to do it.
cheers
Charles McCathieNevile Fundaci?n Sidar
charles@sidar.org http://www.sidar.org
My impression is that a lot of meta element properties were added into
HTML to allow one to dump the meta information from MS Word into
an HTMLised version of a Word document, without having to thing about
whether the particular property was covered by HTML.
In this particular case, the HTML specification says that the default
language is take from the HTTP Content-Language header (with
an equivalent provided by meta http-equiv taking precedence), provided
that there is only one language. Documents can have more than one
language from this point of view; the languages in this context represent
the set union of the languages spoken by the intended audience of the page.
