Following up on item 9 in today's agenda, here are some potential
problem areas in Concepts and Vocabulary (I don't claim these are
exhaustive):
Concepts Section 3.1 begins:
"The underlying structure of any expression in RDF can be viewed as a
directed labelled graph, which consists of nodes and labelled directed
arcs that link pairs of nodes (these notions are defined more formally
in section 6). The RDF graph is a set of *triples*:
[image of the RDF triple comprising (subject, predicate, object)]
Each property arc represents a *statement* of a relationship between the
things denoted by the nodes that it links, having three parts:
1. a property that describes some relationship (also called a
predicate),
2. a value that is the subject of the *statement*, and
3. a value that is the object of the *statement*.
The direction of the arc is significant: it always points toward the
object of a *statement*.
The meaning of an RDF graph is the conjunction (i.e. logical AND) of all
the *statements* that it contains."
I've highlighted *triple* and *statement* in the above. The text seems
mostly to be talking about the subject/predicate/object of *statements*,
except for the introduction, which seems to suggest it's talking about
*triples*. A question is whether we're going to use subject, predicate,
and object for talking both about components of triples, and components
of statements and, if so, how we keep them straight. Note that the
abstract syntax uses these terms to refer to parts of *triples*.
Also, in bullets 2 and 3, tht term "value" is a bit ambiguous: it could
be read either as referring to a URIref, or to the thing denoted by that
URIref. Given the wording in the preceding phrase, changing "a value"
to "the thing" would clarify that it was talking about the thing
denoted, rather than the URIref (if that's what it is talking about).
Concepts Section 3.4, the third sentence, says:
"A literal may be the object of an RDF *statement*, but not the subject
or the arc"
This seems to mix several things. A literal sounds like the lexical
thing, which would be a reasonable object of a triple, but less-clear
for a statement (presumably it's the value denoted by the literal that
would be the object of a statement). "Arc" seems to be mixing in the
drawing terminology from Section 3.1, and it's not clear it belongs here.
Concepts Section 3.5 starts:
"Some simple facts indicate a relationship between two objects. Such a
fact may be represented as an RDF triple in which the predicate names
the relationship, and the subject and object denote the two objects."
In this section, the term "fact" is used as the thing represented as an
RDF triple. In Section 3.1 the thing represented as a triple seemed to
be a "statement". There may or may not be a problem using "fact" in
this kind of text, but its relationship to "statement" needs to be made
clear. Also, "object" is used in two different ways, as the things
denoted by subjects and objects, and as the third component of a triple.
Vocabulary Section 5.3.1:
This section starts with some nice text that is clearly about subjects,
predicates, and objects of *statements*.
Section 5.3.2 (rdf:subject) then says:
"A *triple* of the form:
S rdf:subject R
states that S is an instance of rdf:Statement and that the subject of S
is R"
This may or may not be problematic. The question is whether the reader
will interpret S and R as the URIrefs involved in the corresponding
triple, or as the resources denoted by S and R. Similar comments apply
to sections 5.3.3 and 5.3.4.
--Frank
Frank Manola The MITRE Corporation
202 Burlington Road, MS A345 Bedford, MA 01730-1420
Well held that Man! (English for "good catch")
The comment below on the vocab doc doesn't just apply to the reification
section, there are many such instances, e.g.:
[[The triple
P rdfs:range C
states that P is an instance of the class rdf:Property, that C is an
instance of the class rdfs:Class and that the resources denoted by the
objects of triples whose predicate is P are instances of the class C.]
That one should go to comments.
Brian
I sure am glad I have editor's discretion on dealing with this stuff in
the Primer. If I didn't, I suspect we'd be looking at another Primer
Last Call version sometime in July!
--Frank
Frank Manola The MITRE Corporation
202 Burlington Road, MS A345 Bedford, MA 01730-1420
Let me make the following suggestions for a uniform way to approach
and present our terminology.
1. A triple *is* a 3-tuple which is made up of a subject, predicate
and object which are respectively a uriref or bnode; uriref; uriref,
bnode or literal.
2. An RDF graph *is* a set of triples.
Note that so far there is nothing even remotely graph-theoretic -
nodes, arcs, etc. - mentioned. This is important for the formal
documents, so it would be helpful for readers if the less formal
documents at least didn't give the impression of saying something
different..
3. One can draw a *picture* of an RDF graph as a node-arc diagram
(which is why we call them "graphs") using the conventions we all
know and love. Notice that the labels of the directed arcs *in the
picture* are always the predicates, and that the bnodes *in the
picture* really are blank, etc.. Also in this picture one can see a
distinction between nodes and node labels, and arcs and arc labels.
But that's all just *pictorial*.
3a. Maybe, when we are being careless, we might use the 'picture'
terminology when talking about triples and RDF graphs. But that's
just being careless and intuitive.
4. RDF graphs are typically used to make assertions, by being
published on the Web, and when so used they can be seen as
*statements*; in effect, they *state* that some condition is true.
4a. When being careless, we might use the 'statement' terminology
when referring to triples or RDF graphs. But that's just being
careless and intuitive.
If we all stick to this discipline, then it suggests rewrites similar
to the following in the places noted:
Change to:
"The underlying structure of any expression in RDF is a collection of
triples, each consisting of a subject, a predicate and an object. A
set of such triples is called an RDF graph (defined more formally in
section 6.) The structure can be illustrated by a directed node-arc
diagram in which each triple is represented as a node-arc-node link
(hence the term "graph".)
When some RDF is published or claimed to be true, the triples in the
graph are treated as assertions or statements. The assertion of an
RDF triple says that some relationship, indicated by the predicate
labelling the directed arc in a diagram, holds between the subject
and object of the triple, indicated by the nodes linked by the arc in
the diagram. The assertion of an RDF graph amounts to asserting all
the triples in it, so the meaning of an RDF graph is the conjunction
(logical AND) of all the statements it contains. A formal account of
the meaning of RDF graphs is given in [RDF Semantics].
Right. I suggest we all do an edit pass to make sure that the words
subject/predicate/object are used consistently to refer to the
syntactic parts of a triple, and not to anything else.
Right, I think it is confusing. Better to say 'predicate'
Right. Suggested rewording might be:
"Some simple facts can be phrased in terms of a relationship holding
between two things. Such a fact can be expressed by an RDF triple in
which the predicate names the relationship and the subject and object
name the things. "
Right, I have used this form of words in the semantics doc a lot, and
it caused some confusion. But it is hard to see how else to say it,
other than by being incredibly long-winded and making the text
unreadable. Talking about the reification vocabulary is particularly
awkward, of course.
I'm not sure what else we can do, except maybe add some emphasis
prose to clarify things at particularly tricky moments, eg:
S rdf:subject R
is used when referring to another triple S. It states that S is an
instance of rdf:Statement and the the subject of the triple S is R."
But Im not sure that helps very much.
BTW, the above is not strictly true: it asserts that the subject of
the triple S *denotes* R, not *is* R.
-Pat
IHMC(850)434 8903 or (650)494 3973 home
40 South Alcaniz St.(850)202 4416 office
FL 32501???????????(850)291 0667 cell
phayes@ai.uwf.edu http://www.coginst.uwf.edu/~phayes
s.pam@ai.uwf.edu for spam
