I'm working for a UK based financial company. People in here are starting to
wake up about accessibility, mainly because of the amendments to the
Disability Discrimination Act, which requires FTSE100 companies to make
reasonable attempts at making their website's compliant.
There's a lot of usability and design problems with our current website,
Javascript dependant drop-down menus nested to four-levels deep, linking
every page to every other page (with no script independant fallback). Its
the design we were stuck with, because it was designed by an external
company, and it was all paid for (The HTML is very presentational heavy). I
have been fighting from the very beginning about the usability of this
website, but marketeers being marketeers, they see only what they want to
see. :-(
The accessibility "project" in here is stuck largely with the perception
that all that's required is alt text on images and title attributes on
links. Nothing about how our nested table layout design, and 56 layered
javascript only menu hampers even the most basic accessibility requirements.
We're catering for the browser list of: Netscape 4, Internet Explorer 4,5,6
and Netscape 6 on a PC only (previously decided that Mac browsers weren't
worth supporting -- even though its the choice of mainstream media). The
accessibility outside that range of browsers is close to non-existant (Lynx
shows five lines of content, and two screens of "navigation" links).
I don't believe we can add accessibility ontop of what we have, so I am
pushing strongly for a complete from the bottom up rebuild. Building first a
completely accessible HTML structure, and only then adding enhancements like
CSS and Javascript to those browsers that request it. That way the list of
supported browsers will not experience a degradation, and our content and
services is still fully accessible to other browsers and devices.
Netscape 4, however, because of the bias that it has to be supported, I'm
thinking about delivering a tables based layout for that browser alone. With
a templated approach to building a website, it will only involve a
serverside browser sniff, and selecting a different template. I know the
problems about browser-sniffing, so by delivering a standards compliant
template to all browsers except those that identify themselves as Netscape 4
shouldn't be too much of a danger.
I've drafted up a discussion paper laying out my position. I've got a lot of
very useful material out of the glasshaus book "Accessible Web Sites", so a
lot of the factual and legal arguments come out of this excellent work.
My current paper is sitting on:
company name - in case someone gets funny). My argument is essentially that
a standards based approach is a better alternative to creating a fully
accessible website than "adding on accessibility" to an already broken
website.
Any comments, suggestions and advice will be greatly appreciated.
Thanks
Mike
scripsit Isofarro:
The good news is that if you're standards-compliant, the Mac and
Linux/Unix browsers other than NS4 will be generally OK. Opera is
a similar situation.
The bad news is that all versions of MSIE for Windows have broken
standards compliance, IE4 being very bad and IE6 still having serious
problems. You'll need actually to test back to IE4 if you want to make
sure things work with its bugs.
As far as serving a special page for NS4, do the `powers that be' demand
that the NS4 version be as `pretty' as the accessible version? An easy
solution, if you use true XHTML 1.0 Strict with all presentation in
external CSS files, is simply to hide the CSS from NS4 by exploiting the
`media="all"' bug. Then the NS4 users will simply see a plain,
grey-background page with all the default settings. You might even
include a note (hidden to CSS-grokking browsers) suggesting that the
user upgrade to a standards-compliant browser.
Thanasis Kinias
Doctoral Student, Department of History
Arizona State University
Tempe, Arizona, U.S.A.
Ash nazg durbatul?k, ash nazg gimbatul,
Ash nazg thrakatul?k agh burzum-ishi krimpatul
Hi,
[snip] on a(nother) web accessibility disaster
First, this is a great article. I learned a lot with the "legal history"
thing. This may be the kind of ammo to hit the marketeers with. :-)
When you mention PDF not being accessible, you may want to be more
specific, as it looks like Adobe is making progress in this field
see http://www.adobe.com/products/acrobat/pdfs/pdfaccess.pdf ,
When you mention that Javascript is needed for navigation, you may link
to http://www.thecounter.com/stats/2002/April/javas.php , which states
that 11% of people do not use javascript while browsing. That would make
marketeers think, maybe. Oh wait, they decided not to support macs :-(
Cheers,
--Tristan
PS : sometimes I feel I'm not the only Don Quijote around ;-)
Netscape Technology and Standards evangelist, Europe.
Unfortunately yes. I'm hoping that would be the only point I would need to
compromise on, and this special delivery of a tables based layout to live
long enough until Netscape 4 users have migrated to more standards compliant
browsers, and quietly switch off this non-standard hack.
I agree in principle with your suggestion. But selling it to a
marketeer-driven company is a very tough sell, and I'd rather not let this
particular point hold back going down a complete accessibility from the
ground up approach. Sacrifice for the greater good!
Thanks,
Mike
Excellent, thanks for the links. I think I'd best address the PDF situation
in a separate article, and link them in. That way I can keep the focus on
accessibility, whilst tackling some of the deeper issues on their own pages
without distracting the main argument.
Just the presence of "the number" as a percentage will make heads turn,
especially because its much higher than they first believed.
Thanks for the positive comments,
Mike
