Hi,
after "clean" and "drop-font" it would be nice to have a further
feature, which would help a lot:
drop-msextension should clean HTML from the frontpage-stuff ( !--
mstheme -- , !-- msbot -- hidden in comment-tags, which do nothing
than blow up the whole source.
I ask this for really practical reasons, because I have to spent quite
a lot of time with labouring this out manually. Is it difficult to
implement?
After all, I want to thank the developers of tidy. It really helps.
Mit freundlichen Gruessen
Peter Behringer
Peter Behringer, Vorholzstrasse 26, D-76137 Karlsruhe
Telefon +49 721 385073
LOL. I hear you! ...
The only problem with that a number of other vendors use that same technique as
a form of tool "Processing Instruction". Instead of picking only on Microsoft,
how about something like:
drop-comment: mstheme, ...
Also, one should note that, while maybe guilty of bloating, these extensions do
no *harm* to HTML as such. You can have completely valid HTML with MS's "bots"
sprinkled around, because they are perfectly legal comments.
If you want to see something that uses non-standard stuff that doesn't validate
as *anything*, take a look at the output from MS Word 2000. Here is a sample:
Interesting (?) porridge composed of XHTML, XML, HTML, and CSS "extensions" ...
/Jelks
From: Jelks Cabaniss jelks@jelks.nu
validate
sample:
"extensions" ...
It is certainly not well-formed XML: no literal delimiters (" or ') on the
attribute values. Also, there are empty elements in the head that do not
use empty tags.
It is not SGML or XML, because it uses comment delimiters to hide the script
code.
So it is "HTML with namespaces".
But it uses the schema name as a namespace URI. It then becomes a small step
to requiring the namespace name be a schema name (as Microsoft's BizTalk
does) which in turn leads to "data capture": I have an article "How to
Promote Organic Plurality on the WWW" about this issue, if anyone is
interested, at http://www.ascc.net/xml/en/utf-8/monolith.html
Rick Jelliffe
