Most image on the web are decoration or icons with simple meanings like
"next page". so ALT text and long descriptions are relatively
straightforward.
But some images convey information. For example,
A simple linear sequence, like a flow chart with input going through a
series of processing stages to result in an output.
A tree diagram, like a company's organization chart.
A more general diagram showing a bunch of interconnected objects, e.g. a
schematic diagram or an electronic circuit.
The most complex is a 3D machine, in motion if you want to make it even
harder.
Are there any guidelines on how to describe these diagrams?
For example, you could use lists and nested lists for linear sequences and
trees respectively. Or you could use prose. More general diagrams are,
well, a more general problem. What techniques are best for what purposes
and audiences? What's good wording, especially for prose decriptions?
I'm mainly thinking of speech output here, since that's what most blind
surfers will be using, rather than Braille or tactile graphics.
This is no doubt hard to encapsulate... at some point you just have to get
a skilled technical writer, especially for the prose versions...
Len
Leonard R. Kasday, Ph.D.
Universal Design Engineer, Institute on Disabilities/UAP, and
Adjunct Professor, Electrical Engineering
Temple University
Ritter Hall Annex, Room 423, Philadelphia, PA 19122
kasday@acm.org
(215) 204-2247 (voice)
(800) 750-7428 (TTY)
Not myself, I only read;
but if I were to want to know,
I'd look for someone who
described diagrams for
audio books.
Its amazing what works.
HTH DaveP
"...(say) a hyperlinked HTML version
for the VI members of the group,..."
What is this version like? If a blind person tabbed from link to link, what
would be spoken by a screen reader (i.e. what is the linked text
The content of the link should represent the
relationship between the two objects being
linked. Your example of a link works for /link
is a good one.
Regards, DaveP
this brings us back to flow charts because yes, dvs has certainly done
a good job and also the national library service for the blphc has
lots of experience with speaking about diagrams and such.
Hands-On Technolog(eye)s
Touching The Internet:
Voice: 301.949.7599
ftp://ftp.clark.net/pub/poehlman
Dynamic Solutions Inc.
Best of service
for your small business
network needs!
---sig off---
