[followup email cc'ed w3c archive]
Many thanks for the meeting
and the irc log
and this is followup of
18:19:45 [ericP-scribe]
jos: +testing 2nd opinions by idependent reasoners
18:19:55 [DanC]
2nd opinion test cases... pointer? could you follow up in email with
pointers?
It's just a test case at
It illustrates the same conclusion of
2 independent reasoners (cwm and euler)
for the same theory.
It also illustrates a second opinion
based on 2 independent theories (one on
a more accurate mathematical basis and a
simpler one using the golden cut number
which could stand for 2 orthopedists)
and in all cases there is agreement about
the conclusion. The proofs should make
the different evidences transparent.
Jos De Roo, AGFA http://www.agfa.com/w3c/jdroo/
Thanks for posting those. Thanks again to everyone who participated;
even though we didn't cover the whole agenda, I think we got a long
way given the subject matter and limitations of the medium.
Moving forward, it seems like there are several mostly-separable areas
of work:
1. modifications to cwm to output the language/files
2. write &amp; publish the step &amp; engine descriptions
(perhaps via the ksl registrar, perhaps not...?)
3. dialog about modifications to the language, in general; mostly
RDF-style issues, like adding URIs to nodes
4. figure out the content-language issue (KIF, RDF/XML reification, ...)
5. (somewhat trivial) some web usability mods to IW Browser (cookies!)
It's not clear to me right now what resources are available at the
W3C/MIT end, but hopefully we'll figure that out soon.
-- sandro
thanks also for your participation.
In addition to the list below, i think there is one thing we would like
to do to facilitate your usage:
(I number it 6 as an extension to sandro's list below).
6. extend the portable proof specification so that there is a uri for
premises. (we can run a proposal by whomever is appropriate - from the
phone conversation that sound like it may be tim, sandro, and jos)
Also, as asides as a result of comments today we will add:
- a summary listing of sources used in a proof (in addition to the
summary listing of the ground axioms used)
a few comments below:
we would like to facilitate publishing through inference web. if there
is some resistance to this, we would like to understand so that we can
update iw to meet your needs.
we have users who need the expressive power of kif. if you can live
with less power (and we understand your language) , we can take
registrations in a less expressive language (and internally translate to
kif).
this may need a dialog as well. we are happy to discuss and adapt if
useful.
we are eager to collaborate so we would like to help. we will need a
partner from your side of course so whenever you understand your
resource situation, please contact us.
thx for the great conversation. we look forward to more.
deborah
