Eager to try out the Annotea, I fired up my new Amaya and cruised over to
w3.org.
Not a happy experience. I noted in passing that the "menu buttons" at the
top of the
entry page have ugly separations between them using Amaya that aren't there
using
Mozilla (0.9). Also, the first clue that input ..  was going to be a
problem was the rather strange look about the SEARCH on that page. Moz.
renders it as a small input with the button to the right; Amaya renders a
big input space with the search button kind of awkwardly at the lower left
of the input.
That wasn't enough warning, so I went to register with the database.
The problem was so much more severe there that I was totally unable to
complete the form successfully. I gave up and came back to it with Moz. to
finish the job.
Then I went in with Amaya and left an annotation on the database input page
to the effect of what I'm writing here.
Annotations are cool, indeed.
But form layout has been around a long time now. Is there something that
makes it difficult to do right?
But I didn't just post to grinch about Amaya! This reminded me of a real
need -- a whole forest of pages, preferably under w3 control containing
very carefully crafted, canonically correct HTML of whatever version where
we know precisely how it is intended to be rendered; say one page for each
characteristic to be exercised. Thus, voila! a way to compare browsers
where the page content isn't also a variable.
Comment?
David A. Cobb, Software Engineer, Public Access Advocate, All around nice guy.
Get my PGP key at
: http://pgpkeys.mit.edu:11371/pks/lookup?op=get&amp;search=superbiskit
Fingerprint=0x{6E3E_DB8C_2E8C_4248_62B2_FE29_08EE_CF0A_3629_E954}
"By God's Grace I am a Christian man, by my actions a great sinner."
--The Way of a Pilgrim, R. M. French [tr.]
[DJW:]
HTML is not intended to have one true rendering. Even CSS up
to CSS2, at least, is intended only to be treated as hints on
presentation, but HTML is about document semantics and has
very little to do with presentation/GUI rendering.
In the area of input controls, up to at least CSS2, then
expectation is that the controls will be displayed in the
natural form for the operating system, not in any standard
format.
If you look at the PDF version of the HTML specification, it
was generated from the HTML and is a valid graphical
rendering, including the collapsible outline tree; however,
it is unlikely to look exactly like the rendering in IE
or Mozilla.
If you want controlled prsentation, use PDF, whose design aim was
that.
Unfortunately most "HTML" authors are working on tne false
premise that it is some form of page description language.
--------------------------- DISCLAIMER ---------------------------------
Any views expressed in this message are those of the individual sender,
except where the sender specifically states them to be the views of BTS.
This was due to a combination of selectors not supported in Amaya.
It's fixed now (check on the CVS base.
That depends on the font sizes and the width of the window.
As you know one of the goal of HTML is to adapt the rendering to the current
environment.
If you used to fill a form by using TAB and ENTER, it didn't work with the
current
released version of Amaya. Fortunately it works with the CVS version.
As I see you discovered what Amaya doesn't do that Mozilla does but not yet the
opposite.
A lack of manpower and a lot of things to do.
is a test suite for html4 that david cobb may be interested in.
There are many issues clearly defined in the recommendation that
would make Amaya look more closely like other forms if rendered
as the recommendation says. The most important one is SIZE
which sets the input box width in characters. Other issues can
be identified by using http://www.cgocable.net/~jrussel/formtest.htm
And Amaya is not alone in not adhering to the html4 recommendations
about forms --- MSIE, Netscape and Opera each fail at something
just not the obvious one of SIZE. Renderings such as how a
scroll box looks is not in recommendation as Dave says but
that it should display multiple selections when that feature is
requested is!
John Russell, VE3LL@RAC.CA
Please send complaints to my legal reps
Dewey, Cheatum &amp; Howe ATTN: Sue Alotte
