All:
I have posted the skeleton of a document for classifying our Usage Scenarios, as we discussed in the last teleconference. In this version I have included four broad categories that I was able to identify. Additional categorization is inevitable. Our plan, as you probably recall, is to discuss specific activities for the TF to undertake based on the scenarios we have in hand. In particular, we will want to look at the language/locale/preferences related issues.
The document is located here: http://www.w3.org/International/ws/ws-i18n-scenarios-edit/scenarios-classification.html
Note that this document is very very rough in form. I'll be cleaning it up over the holiday break. The word "moo" is a placeholder, for example, not a comment. ;-).
As always, comments and suggestions are welcome.
Best Regards,
Addison
Addison P. Phillips
Director, Globalization Architecture
webMethods, Inc.
Internationalization is an architecture.
It is not a feature.
Chair, W3C-I18N-WG Web Services Task Force
To participate see http://www.w3.org/International/ws
Hello Addison,
I haven't checked the details of your document yet, but it looks
quite good to me.
But please be aware that the section numbers we have won't be stable.
If we just insert one new use case somewhere, all the numbers may
change. We should add somewhat memorable id's in the xml source,
so that we can use these, or put the information about these
classifications directly into our document.
Regards, Martin.
Hello Addison, Martin,
This classification is nice reference for WSTF future activities. You
mentioned it was rough draft, but let me incorporate your document into
the editor's copy so that reader can reach each section by clicking
section numbers easily. For the present, I added the classification into
the "A Deliverables Classification (Non-Normative)" of the latest editor's
copy.
Thanks,
Kentaroh
Kentaroh Noji : nojik@jp.ibm.com
Hi Addison, et al,
I've just dug out from a consulting gig and the holidays ...
I really like the simplicity and completeness of the the usage scenario classifications, however, I have a minor comment to the wording for Best Practices.
For "Best Practices", I would change:
"End users" means people who are creating Web services. That is, these are guidelines for making an internationalized Web service using existing standards.
to:
"End users" means people who are creating, offering, or integrating Web services. That is, these are guidelines for making or using an internationalized Web service using existing standards.
Cheers,
Mike___
