The ERB schedule calls for voting on Feb. 26 on these items.
3.3.a Should we have a type of link that tries to be a nice clean superset of
HTML's Anchor?
3.3.b If so, what should we call it?
3.3.c If 3.2.b goes the way of child elements for locators, should the "A"
link have a single child element for consistency with that, or no such
element for consistency with HTML?
3.3.d Should we regard such an "A" link as involving one or two resources?
3.3.e If it involves two resources, is it a problem that there is no obvious
place to put locator metadata for the "implied" resource?
3.3.f SHould we provide a content model for "A" links?
3.3.g Should we allow "A" links to contain anything other than PCDATA?
Yes, but that doesn't mean I go for reserved GIs, since (following
Paul's example)
?ATTLIST a
xml-link CDATA #fixed "xml-link" ?
would do the trick.
As above, xml-link, with xml-mlink for non-inline-links.
See my comments on 3.2.b -- I like having the attributes on the
xml-link element itself, with similar names to the ones appearing on
each locator sub-element of xml-mlinks.
It must be two, surely, so applications can treat links and mlinks the
same for most purposes.
My draft proposal had a solution for that. As far as I can see the
only such metadata is not locator metadata at all, but resource (aka
endpoint) metadata, of which the only two proposed so far are role and
caption. I'd vote for using 'role' and 'caption' for the explicitly
located reference (i.e. the one specified using 'href' and 'hrtype'),
and using 'irole' and 'icaption' for the implicit resource (which
doesn't need 'href' or 'hrtype').
No. Just as I can explicitly locate any sub-tree of a document, I
should be able to contain and implicitly locate any sub-tree, if I
write my DTD to allow it.
Yes, see above.
ht
Yes
A - otherwise it (the element that is) is not a superset!
It must allow any element that is embeddable within an HTML anchor.
It is an in-line link. If it points to an internally named fragment
identifier it refers to a single resource. If it contains a URL prefix for
its fragment identifier, or consists of just the URL, there are two
resources, that doing the pointing and the pointed to.
Surely in-line links imply the contents of the link element as a resource.
No - this has to be application specific
They must be able to contain any element the application wants.
There is one thing that seems to have been forgotten in the spec so far,
which is vital if we are to provide a superset of the HTML Anchor element.
That is the ability to map existing attribute names to XML ones. For example
you must be able to state that the XML locator attribute value is to be
taken from the href attribute (and perhaps that the name attribute is to be
mapped to an ID attribute)
For example, you need to have something like:
so that the system knows that it should take the value of its XML locator
element from the contents of the href attribute, the contents of its unique
identifier from the name attribute (if it is present) and the content of its
caption attribute from the contents of the element).
Martin Bryan, The SGML Centre, Churchdown, Glos. GL3 2PU, UK
Yes. The A structure used in HTML is also used in other
SGML applications. It is the simplest form of hyperlink in common
use.
Thing. ;-) Sorry, the name game isn't worth a lot of thought
at this point.
No brainer. If you already have multiple child elements in other
significant applications, restricting them in XML Link applications
just narrows the applicability of XML Link.
The use of the term resource should be consistent with Dan Connoly's
definition.
By that definition, the number of resources should be consistent with
the
URL RFC. If you have a link that has multiple URLs, it has potentially,
multiple resources it can locate. In VRML, as stated in earlier
discussions, an anchor can contain multiple URLs. The processing of
these (resolve which one) is application dependent. Again, it is
used for precedence operations.
A link element is not itself a resource unless it is the target of
another URL. If an a name= is in an HTML instance but no
URL uses it as a target=, is it a resource? This seems to be
a question for Dan Connoly to answer for HTML. Saying yes seems
to fail the "duh!" test. An implied resource isn't logical.
A resource is declared or it isn't a resource.
Since all XML Link information, the spec itself, is an application
of XML, you can do as you please. Expect this application to
diverge over time as HTML and other applications diverge.
XML A links can contain anything the designers of the XML Link
Application
wish to have there if the designers wish to create an XML Element Type
named A. Other XML application designers may create XML Element Types
named A for their applications.
len bullard
lockheed martin
