Hello,
I've noticed that the recent C version of tidy
(HTML Tidy for Linux/x86 released on 1st January 2003)
as well as
HTML Tidy for Linux/x86 released on 1st November 2002
produces output quite different from that of
HTML Tidy for Linux/x86 (release date: 1st October 2002; built on Oct 8
2002, at 23:33:07)
when using "-i -wrap 78" options.
For example, h3 element is now split into three lines, except of been placed
on one. This is quite troublesome, because I'm using tidy to make sure that
changes to html documentation result in minimal textual difference. If several
persons you different versions of tidy, or tidy behaviour changes, the
difference between document version is rather large.
Is there a way to get older behaviour back with command line switches. More
general question: is there a place where changes in formatting behaviour are
documented, so that I can learn proper combination of switches myself.
TIA,
Volodya
Hi Vladimir,
Yes, the behavior of the -i command line option was changed to match its
historical behavior, namely --indent yes. For details,
see http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/message.php?msg_id=2512745.
To get the prior output, use this:
--indent auto
See http://tidy.sourceforge.net/docs/quickref.html#indent
Note, --indent yes (and, therefore, -i) is deprecated because the liberties
it takes with whitespace are known to cause layout problems in browsers.
hth,
Charlie
Hi Charles,
Thanks for your reply!
Yes, this improves things, but not completely fixes them. For example,
there's no newline after /pre element.
So the question remains: is it always possible to get behaviour of the
previous tidy version by tweaking options and where do I learn what
options must be tweaked.
I would like to always use up-to-date tidy version to catch problems,
but OTOH, if each version changes formatting, it's not that usable to
minimizing differences between versions of HTML document stored in
CVS, which is the primary use for me.
- Volodya
No, there is no 4th indenting option. In fact, the new "auto" mode fixes a
number of problems with the previous version. Not problems with
compliance, but things that could make visual changes in browsers. Also,
we received a steady stream of complaints about too many blank lines.
An excellent idea which, unfortunately, will not work this
time. You could continue to use Tidy, but will incur a one-time monster diff.
Just thinking out loud here but, for this use, I'd suggest --indent
no. You could use --indent auto before you work on it and --indent no
before you check it in.
take it easy,
Charlie
