PJ responses to CMN responses to PJ responses to CMN responses to IJ issues
Issue 6) delete "that is stylistic" from Checkpoint 4.5
PJ: Either way, we need to define the terms "presentation markup" and
"structural markup" and give examples of such markup [we don't currently
in
either the glossary nor the techniques].
CMN I agree that we should define these. A suggestion:
PJ's changes to CMN's suggestions:
Presentation markup
[Markup language] such as [CSS] used to encode information about the
desired presentation or layout of the content. [CSS], for example, can be
used to control fonts and positioning. Presentation markup should not be
used incorrectly to present or layout information to resemble structural
content. For example, [CSS] or [HTML40] should not be used incorrectly to
visually layout information to resemble a list with out also using the
[structural markup] for a list.
Structural markup
[Markup language] such as [HTML40] used to encode information about the
structural role of elements of the content. For example, headings,
sections, members of a list, and components of a complex diagram can be
identified using structural markup. Structural markup should not be used
incorrectly to control presentation or layout. For example, [HTML40]
should not be used incorrectly to achieve an indentation visual layout
effect by using the quote element. Structural markup should be used
correctly to communicate the roles of the elements of the content and
[presentation markup] should be used separately to control the presentation
and layout.
Issue 7) Checkpoint 5.1
PJ: the three terms are all the same to me, functions, features, or
functionalities. But adding "user interface" is limiting. I read the
current wording to be more than just the natural integration into the
user
interface of the tool, but also into the way the tool works inside, or
the
plumbing (non UI) components of the tool.
CMN I read it the same way, which is why I support using User interface -
it
is not important to the end user how the tool is built (except as a product
differentiation - a well-built tool is generally more efficient than a
badly-built one), only how the user interface works.
PJ I agree that it is not as important to the user how the tool is built,
but how the user interface works. But, since these guidelines are written
to developers, it is important to write to developers who may at times
think of the UI as separate from the supporting plumbing that supports the
UI. By using the term "user interfaces" the developer reading the document
may not think of the required functions and features [functionalities is
not a word in my dictionary] that also need to be implemented to comply
with the checkpoint.
Regards, Phill
In other words, are you arguing that the ambiguity in the present wording is
going to be beneficial to developers who are thinking about how to implement?
In actual fact, the more I think about it, the more I think that we should be
explicit about the requirement in the text of the checkpoint, since if it is
integrated in the "plumbing" but not in the User Interfce that could be sen
to have met the checkpoint while it completely fails to satisfy the actual
requirement.
Charles McCN
PJ I agree that it is not as important to the user how the tool is built,
but how the user interface works. But, since these guidelines are written
to developers, it is important to write to developers who may at times
think of the UI as separate from the supporting plumbing that supports the
UI. By using the term "user interfaces" the developer reading the document
may not think of the required functions and features [functionalities is
not a word in my dictionary] that also need to be implemented to comply
with the checkpoint.
Regards, Phill
W3C Web Accessibility Initiative http://www.w3.org/WAI
21 Mitchell Street, Footscray, VIC 3011, Australia (I've moved!)
CMN:
is
implement?
No, not at all. I want them to do both!
Not all plumbing as a UI. And not all UI requires additional plumbing. So
by "not limiting" the requirement to UI, or in other words, not inserting
the phrase "user interface:, it implies both the UI and the plumbing are
required.
Regards,
Phill Jenkins,
I agree that they should do both, but I think in actual fact the real
requirement is in the User Interface. Which is why I am now strongly in
favour of changing the wording.
Charles
CMN:
is
implement?
No, not at all. I want them to do both!
Not all plumbing as a UI. And not all UI requires additional plumbing. So
by "not limiting" the requirement to UI, or in other words, not inserting
the phrase "user interface:, it implies both the UI and the plumbing are
required.
Regards,
Phill Jenkins,
W3C Web Accessibility Initiative http://www.w3.org/WAI
21 Mitchell Street, Footscray, VIC 3011, Australia (I've moved!)
aloha, phil!
why quote imply unquote that both the UI and the plumbing are included -- why
not explicitly state that both are _required_?
an implication doesn't conveys the same weight or authority that an explicit
statement carries...
if that is what is meant, why not simply state it?
gregory.
He that lives on Hope, dies farting
-- Benjamin Franklin, Poor Richard's Almanack, 1763
Gregory J. Rosmaita unagi69@concentric.net
WebMaster and Minister of Propaganda, VICUG NYC
GR
why
I believe we are by the existing wording "into the tool". When I read 10
Dec draft of both the Guideline 5 and the checkpoint 5.1, it is clear to me
that it is "the tool", the overall look and feel, all parts of the tool,
the UI, the documentation, the plumbing, the on-line help, etc. . . . the
tool. Why limit it to just the "user interface"? or explicitly expand it to
include everything included in a tool?
Guideline 5. Integrate accessibility solutions into the overall "look and
feel"
5.1 Ensure that functions related to accessible authoring practices are
naturally integrated into the tool.
Regards,
Phill Jenkins
aloha, phil!
i agree that you and i and probably most -- if not all -- of the WG agrees that
the current wording of 5.1 covers both the plumbing and the UI itself, but
clarity on this point, i feel, would strengthen the checkpoint, and reduce the
potential for mis-interpretation...
if the WG doesn't feel that it is necessary to clarify the checkpoint, however,
i do believe that we should at least add some verbiage to the introductory text
to GL5 to make it as clear as possible that both the UI and the underlying
plumbing are being addressed in this GL...
just my 2 cents,
gregory.
He that lives on Hope, dies farting
-- Benjamin Franklin, Poor Richard's Almanack, 1763
Gregory J. Rosmaita unagi69@concentric.net
WebMaster and Minister of Propaganda, VICUG NYC
GJR:: "add some verbiage to the introductory text to GL5 to make it as
clear as possible that both the UI and the underlying plumbing are being
addressed in this GL."
WL: I guess some of the rather strong statements in the Techniques for
the checkpoint are clearer than might be likely in the main document?
I guess I don't envision any *real* possiblity of the UI conforming but
the underlying effect not. I just don't think this one is broke enough
to need further fixing. Let's move on.
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
