Hi
When I "Open Document" in Amaya installed for Win95, and I "Browse" to
open a local file, Amaya totally shuts down when I "Confirm" the
selected file. I've tried the Enter key instead, as welll as opening a
new window but that does not work either. It also does not take an
address typed in the Address box.
Is there a bug in the program?
BTW I agree with Mario Alves that Amaya should focus on being a browser
-- and a proper one. Forget about your authoring service.
Thank you
Jacques
Dr Jacques Steyn wrote in message ...
The notion that "everybody can be a publisher" is fundamental to the Web
and has been there from day one: Tim Berners-Lee's first NextStep browser
was also a GUI editor. I agree with you that Web apps should be fast but
what we can show with the latest Amaya is that by using an optimized HTTP
protocol stack, editors don't have to be slow nor do they have to break
the "browsing" mode of users.
Henrik Frystyk Nielsen, W3C
I agree.
Amaya should focus on continuing to be the best cross-platform multi-view
editor available. Improvements to the browsing would be nice, but there are
more good browsers than good editors to choose from at the moment.
Scott Davis
Defence Science and Technology Organisation
PO Box 1500
Salisbury, South Australia 5108scott.davis@dsto.defence.gov.au
Henrik Frystyk Nielsen replied to a previous message of mine:
I agree with your approach, and really support you guys at the W3C in
this
regard.
But my point was really the following:
By trying to be both a browser and editor, Amaya has not succeeded yet
in
being either.
1. There is currently no browser that can understand HTML 4.0 and CSS
2.0
markup and render it properly. From the W3C recommendations I often get
some
or other intention for an element or the like, but proprietory browsers
seem
to follow their own noses and release browsers that do not follow the
W3C's
intentions (as I read them). So I am looking to Amaya to fulfil this
role --
to show how intented markup should be rendered.
2. Over the past few years I have used many different kinds of markup
editors: SGI's WebMagic and CosmoCode, Miscrosoft's Frontpage, and now I
use
Macromedia's Dreamweaver. Apart from Dreamweaver all the other packages
force
markup in where I do not want it, so I have grown accustomed to using
Jot on
Unix and Notepad on Windows to panelbeat the resulting markup. In fact,
panelbeating has become such a schlepp that once I knew the elements
properly
I preferred using a bland text editor to anything available on the
market --
until Dreamweaver came along. The beauty of this package is that you can
work
in its (kind-of) WYSIWIG window and markup editor simultaneously, and
most
importantly, it does not overrride one's markup.
So in my view standard text editors do the job of authoring just fine.
Apart
from Dreamweaver there is not really any authoringware I would like to
use
and nothing to recommend. I'd rather stick to Jot or Notepad.
So I think it is a waste of time to try to develop Amaya as
authoringware.
Given the present state of Amaya you will have to go a very long way
before
you reach the efficiency of Dreamweaver. And for those who cannot afford
this
expensive package, a plain text editor does just fine. Admittedly, the
learning curve is steeper, but with copy and paste, and the large number
of
validators available, who needs another package that seems to be
battling to
get off the ground, and at this stage seems to need to go a very long
way
before it gets to the Dreamweaver level of efficiency?
I really think that there is a greater need for a proper browser than
for
yet another editing tool.
It would be interesting to see if others share this view -- and perhaps
even
be more interesting to see what methods are used to cook up markup.
But don't take this too harsh. I think you guys are doing a great job!
Regards
Jacques
I use a text editor and several other editors.
I want something to test HTML 4.0 and CSS 2.0 markup and render it properly.
I want something to test MATHML markup and render it properly.
That does not exits yet. Amaya does not do this yet.
Even Microsoft word can produce HTML. I need to test then HTML from these
editors. The verification service is the only way I have of testing HTML.
That is a slow process. If Amaya could verify HTML 4.0 that would be a
big step forward. If Amaya could point to the error that would be a
big step forward.
You can open two windows, Amaya and the editor. It is
easy to jump between the browser and the editor. There is little advantage
to having them in the same program.
Jim FitzSimons
Jacques Steyn jacsteyn@iafrica.com said:
Except when it come to editing tables or complex multi-level lists, in
which case WYSIWYG editors are far superior.
Have you tried AOLpress? It's available for free for Unix, Windows and
Mac platforms at http://www.aolpress.com/download.html. It supports
HTML 3.2 and is quite impressive at generating good HTML syntax. I've
been using it for years now, and keep using it when I don't need to do
HTML 4 specific stuff. It allows you to edit the HTML code directly, if
you wish, and you can choose when the updated HTML code should be parsed
to update the WYSIWYG window. Unfortunately, I don't think it is still
maintained, which means that it will stay an HTML 3.2 editor.
Anyway, going back to your comment, I don't think you can accuse Amaya of
forcing mark-up on you, can you?
I really hope that W3C will keep working on Amaya as a WYSIWYG editor
with embedded browsing capabilities. I find it very useful, and I find
the "book" and link printing capabilities very useful too . I would just
hope they had more manpower to move a little faster at implementing all
of CSS1.
Peace,
Bertrand Ibrahim.
Bertrand.Ibrahim@cui.unige.ch
My PGP public key is in my WWW home page.
Its fingerprint is 27 F8 E6 45 76 C4 E4 90 C5 83 2A 14 20 CC 7D FC
In-reply-to: Your message of Fri, 02 Oct 1998 03:33:15 +0200."
Amaya is mainly an editor. We think that a good editor needs to be also a
browser, because the management of links and the publishing are important parts
of the editing task and they can be well done only if the editor integrates
browsing
facilities.
The goal of the W3C and the Amaya team is not to build a product (we don't
have the
task force to do that), but to push some important ideas. Mixing of editing
and browsing
is one of them. Another is to avoid people to have to learn HTML, but this can
be true
only when authoring tools will produce good HTML code.
It seems that you don't like that approach, and you prefer to edit freely the
HTML source. That's OK today for computer scientists but not for many people.
I agree with you that Amaya has to make progress, we are working on it, but
you have
to accept to learn a minimum about it to discover that some features should be
developed
(links management, multi-views, management of map areas, XML support)
Regards
Irene.
I think one of your problems here is that you are seen as the only
viable non-commercial browser by people who want a Microsoft free
system (Netscape is a lot behind IE in its support for CSS and HTML
4).
I appreciate that is not your aim, but I think that you need to
appreciate the policital context.
David Woolley - Office: David Woolley djw@bts.co.uk
BTS Home: david@djwhome.demon.co.uk
Wallington TQ 2887 6421
England 51 21' 44" N, 00 09' 01" W (WGS 84)
