1. Alter the title in the title box and save a document. The old title is
saved instead. The title only seems to "keep" if it's edited in the structure
view using the body tag and attributes menu. It appears that the title box and
structure data on the body tag title attribute are not linked/synchronized but
should be.
2. A maximized Amaya window inhibits the W95/98 taskbar in some strange way.
Changes to the icons in the system tray no longer appear on-screen, so the
modem indicator doesn't blink, ICQ messages don't appear to have arrived
(unless you have the sound alerts on), etc.
Get free e-mail and a permanent address at http://www.netaddress.com/?N=1
Yes, and Win95 versions sucks incredible amount of resources...
But, it doesn't make a sense to comment them in this way. No one in the
world told you, that Amaya IS what you called "release-quality software"
-- Amaya is intended as a testbed for development of W3C standard and as
such it should be generally enough to show, that some construct in *ML
is possible. I guess, that all bugs you've mentioned are a long times
known but nobody has a time to make corrections (BTW, when these folks
from Redmont have made corrections you've asked them to do; and,
remember, you've paid a lot of money to them!).
To make it short -- as with all in this world, you get what you've paid
for!
But, it doesn't make a sense to comment them in this way. No one in the
world told you, that Amaya IS what you called "release-quality software"
-- Amaya is intended as a testbed for development of W3C standard and as
such it should be generally enough to show, that some construct in *ML
is possible. I guess, that all bugs you've mentioned are a long times
known but nobody has a time to make corrections (BTW, when these folks
from Redmont have made corrections you've asked them to do; and,
remember, you've paid a lot of money to them!).
To make it short -- as with all in this world, you get what you've paid
for!
Shall I take that as meaning the development team refuses to fix or even look
at these bugs? Even the SHOWSTOPPERS? I find that quite objectionable. Your
editor should at least be beta-quality software... and I see no reason not to
make every effort to polish it to a high state of quality. Right now it is a
diamond in the rough; it could use a lot of polishing as well as bug fixing...
Get free e-mail and a permanent address at http://www.netaddress.com/?N=1
I do not know you, Paul, but I think you come on too strong to say "the
development team refuses to fix". They are not refusing - they will try
to fix them.
That's not how I interpreted that message. It looked to me like the guy was
stating on behalf of the development team that they (paraphrasing) know about
the bugs and don't give a damn.
Of course, I don't know whether he is on the development team or has their
sanction to speak on their behalf, so...
But I can't keep quiet when someone uses such unkind words.
I was responding to what appeared to be equally unkind words. Namely words to
the effect of "I/we don't give a damn about you or the bug you encountered,
data loss or no data loss."
Yes, it needs a lot of fixing and polishing but please use gentle
prodding and do not demean the effort of these people.
My initial gentle prodding prompted a response to the effect that "I/we don't
give a damn about you or the bug you encountered, data loss or no data loss,"
hence a subsequent, strongly worded response.
Your list was quite exhaustive and I am sure the team appreciates the
effort you put in evaluating their product. They will look into all of
them as they have in the past.
These statements imply that the guy whose posting implied the development team
didn't give a damn was a) mistaken and b) not actually sanctioned to speak on
their behalf. Perhaps he needs a kindly reminder that he doesn't speak for the
development team?
Hey... actually, it seems I merely asked for clarification of his message ...
I find that quite objectionable. Your editor should at least be beta-
quality software...
and gave a subsequent "rant" conditioned on the result of that clarification.
Get free e-mail and a permanent address at http://www.netaddress.com/?N=1
In-reply-to: Your message of 11 Jun 1999 01:59:15 -0600."
You need to hit the Return key to validate the Title change.
It's the same for the above field "Address". Amaya takes into account the new
address when you hit the Return key.
That was explained in the FAQ page http://www.w3.org/Amaya/User/FAQ.html
The size is computed by Windows and not Amaya. That application is not
developed
by Microsoft than we have a limited integration with the system.
Irene.
Feel free either to fix bugs or to polish; the CVS tree is publicly
available, and I'm sure patches will be gratefully welcomed by the
development team (of which I am not a member).
Ewan Mellor.
Get Your Private, Free Email at http://www.hotmail.com
Since this is so often a problem, someone could think
that hitting RETURN is not obvious ;-)
Is it possible to make this behaviour configurable
or is the RETURN key really necessary?
Just a question.
Roland
