Dear members,
I have translated the WAI-Quick Tips document to my native language,
Kannada and would like to put it up in the translated pages list of the
W3C site.
Following is the link for the translated document:
Please do the needful. Thanks.
Note: Kannada is the language spoken in Karnataka State in South India.
Bangalore, the "Silicon Valley" of India is the capital of Karnataka. The
population of Karnataka is approximately 55 million.
PS: I have also included a few details in Kannada script in the attached
HTML file that might be useful.
Regards,
Narasimha Datta
Indian Institute of Science,
Bangalore, INDIA
Narashimha,
thank you. However, there seem to be a (minor) problem. Neither the
attached file nor the translation itself appears properly on my screen
(I tried to different browsers, running Win2K). Looking at the source,
the character encoding is set to iso-8859-1, which is obviously wrong.
Interestingly, you did set utf-8 in the meta statement of the attached
file, but it is still unreadable, I suspect the encoding went wrong
somewhere (maybe it is safer to put this info somewhere on the web,
rather than send it through an email...)
Can you set these?
Thank you again
Ivan
P.S. I want to particularly thank you for the attached information, it
is clear that you spoke to your colleages...
Ivan Herman
W3C Head of Offices
C/o W3C Benelux Office at CWI, Kruislaan 413
1098SJ Amsterdam, The Netherlands
URL: http://www.w3.org/People/all?pictures=yes#ivan
Thanks for the prompt response.
I have corrected the encoding part (set it to UTF-8) - I am able
to view the HTML pages correctly on my Mozilla browser. You need a Kannada
font to be able to view the translation (though I don't know how much you
will be able to decipher out of it :-)). If you are interested, you can
download Sampige.ttf from: http://brahmi.sourceforge.net/downloads.html.
Regarding the previously attached file containing some Kannada translated
words, I have uploaded it to:
this helps.
Thanks and regards,
Narasimha
