Hello,
Amaya (7.1 running on Windows 2000) has a gray background making the
foreground text difficult to read. I saw a copy of a similar note less
than a month ago and would like to know what the solution is. A white
background would be wonderful. Am I just missing something obvious?
I note that the help functions, such as the index, flash gray as they are
activated but then stabilize with a white background for me.
Any ideas? Thanks
Bill
I solved the problem by giving all of my documents a standard stylesheet
with the following information for the body:
BODY { font-family: Times, serif ;
color: #000000 ;
background-color: #ffffff }
That gives you a black Times or serif font on a white background. You
can do it either by creating a separate stylesheet (which is what I did)
or by opening the source window and entering it in the header, using
standard style markup. The stylesheet was easier for me.
For documents you're viewing off the web, I really don't have any idea
what to do. For some unknown reason, gray has been the default ever
since Mosaic.
Bill Hartwell Anpwhotep@confederatelinux.com
MacManus Enterprises
If you put this into your user stylesheet (called amaya.css in the directory
where local info is stored - ~/.amaya on Unix, and I don't know where in
Windows) then it will be applied to all documents, although overridden by
anything with its own stylesheet.
You do need to remember that documents you are editing don't have a
stylesheet applied to them except for your own use, so you might need to add
the rules into a stylesheet explicitly linked.
I think the Amaya style interface is due for an overhaul, but I don't know
the details about when that might happen. (I also think it is still about the
best styling interface I have seen, although the options it presents are
limited and not all good ones)
Cheers
Chaals
SWAD-E http://www.w3.org/2001/sw/Europe ------------ WAI http://www.w3.org/WAI
W3C, 2004 Route des Lucioles, 06902 Sophia Antipolis Cedex, France
Menu "Special" = Preferences = Colors
There it is, the "Color Preferences" dialog.
To the developers and users: This dialog is rather tricky (it has
usability issues).
Scenario: you want to change the background color. You select the value
under "Document background color", click "Use palette", click in a
bright yellow and then "Done" (BTW these palettes must dimiss with Esc).
Upon returning to the page you notice that you now have bright yellow
text over the same background as before.
You turn back to the "Color Preferences" dialog thinking that you chose
the wrong button or tha like, but not: you did it right but the outcome
is wrong.
After a couple times you might notice that the background is changed by
clicking THE OTHER BUTTON (as when editing pages).
Also, this dialog seems to lack a means to cancel changes.
To the developers: Id' change the beckground color default to the much
more usual white.
Some people might reject a browser that shows it all in a rather dark
gray shade. I think there is no a safe lighter gray available.
Saludos
Juan Lanus
TECNOSOL
Argentina
On Tue, 31 Dec 2002 15:15:52 -0700
You can change the default Amaya background in "Special  Preferences  Colors".
You can also select a color with CSS (see Help  Configuring Amaya)
Irene.
