-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA1
I'm considering of creating an english version of my website
(currently there's only a dutch version), but I have never done
something like this before.
~ My idea about it was to create a page like 'index.php' (i'll call
this the languageselector) which uses the http-request to decide
wether to serve the dutch or the english version, using a redirect,
for the english version to index.en.php and for the dutch to
index.nl.php. I would create a languageselector for every page, so
that i would have three files for every page: 'page.php',
'page.en.php', 'page.nl.php'.
Is this a good idea or are there better/other ways for doing this?
Are there maybe some 'ready made' solutions for this? (I use PHP on an
Apache server)
Kind regards and thanks,
Jeroen Budts
Person xmlns="http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/"
~ mbox="jeroen@lightyear.be"
~ homepage="http://www.lightyear.be"
~ weblog="http://www.budts.be"
~ icqChatID="103911636"
/
NO SoftwarePatents in Europe!
Sign the petition: http://petition.eurolinux.org/
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: GnuPG v1.2.4 (MingW32)
Comment: Using GnuPG with Thunderbird - http://enigmail.mozdev.org
iD8DBQFAVNH4H04wF4t7d0oRAiT7AJwOFXzW6WvhFA2TzmSskInHvcYwDgCfbhsM
ShpIN/uywzRDD6ETaIDU26o=
=NfGB
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
*slapped*
Thanks to:
david@djwhome.demon.co.uk
paul@ten-20.com
david@us-lot.org
for the info. I myself, was unaware of such features. I stand corrected.
Kevin.
Perhaps this is a good time for us all to rethink our positions.
Might it not be so that organisations - like the UN - who do not use
language negotiation do so because they are clearly less knowledgeable
than those who chose to spend their time following this list - and
our esteemed colleague Kevin here illustrate that not even here
everyone knows these techniques.
What we need to do is what David and I do daily: teach. This is one
case where "Those who can, teach; those who can't should listen"
applies.
There is a growing awareness of the fact that access to information is
difficult - impossible even - to some groups among us. Let us try to
teach people to use the technology we have today for the best result,
instead of bickering over what might be.
To quote mom: "Spit in one hand and wish in the other, and see where
you get the most". "Dissing" the Accept-Language header and inventing
a number of more or less esoteric methods to deal with the same
problem is wishing, and not for anything nice.
And to Kevin - bravo. It takes a strong man to admit to having learnt
something.
- Tina Holmboe Greytower Technologies
tina@greytower.net http://www.greytower.net/
[+46] 0708 557 905
:)The assumption for everyone to know everything
intinctivley because it is assumed knowledge, is a
misgiving. For accessabilities sake us developers
should live by:
"Never make assumtions, it makes and ASS out of yoU
and ME".
My girlfriend's mother was unaware of such an option
for language selection and it was not immediently
apparent so she never benefitted. This just adds
another view of the language barrier on the Web to the
discussion from someone who would never verture forth
to participate in such a conversation.
www.appletv.co.uk
Yahoo! Messenger - Communicate instantly..."Ping"
your friends today! Download Messenger Now
The "average user" doesn't need to be.
In the first place, even in the absence of explicit user choice, the
browser already has a clue based on the language set in the operating
system and desktop.
In the second place (and in the real world), ISPs and system
administrators will pre-configure language preferences to local
norms on behalf of users.
And as others have pointed out, it's a simple configuration option
for those who can use a menu. It's just not labelled as HTTP
content negotiation - that would be far more technical detail than
most users need to know.
Nick Kew
In my real world there live a lot of people whose native language is not
that of the country they live in. (In Amsterdam alone, 45% of residents are
of non-Dutch origin.)
In that real world, people go to a store to buy a computer for themselves;
what they get is a machine pre-configured with an operating system and
browser set to the (main) language of the country they live in (often
preconfigured to use a particular ISP as well). No administrator in sight.
Just how do those people even find out there is such a thing as a language
preference? And if they know enough to ask the right questions - will their
ISP's helpdesk know enough to help them along?
My downstairs neighbor, who is Mexican, never had a clue she could set her
*keyboard* to use Spanish instead of Dutch. She shares the computer with
her daughter who is more fluent in Dutch than in Spanish. Even if they know
they can set the browser to a language preference - which would they
choose? Their browser certainly doesn't have a clue what their preferences are.
Cheers,
Marjolein Katsma
HomeSite Help - http://hshelp.com/ - Extensions, Tips and Tools
The Bookstore - http://books.hshelp.com/ - Books for webmasters and webrookies
If we use the language preferences sent by the user agent to select a
default language (and present an obvious option on that page to select
other languages):
* Users who know how to use their software get the language they want
and do not have to find their language from the provided options.
- Benefit
* Users who don't know how to use configure their preference get a
sensible default which would probably be their preference if they had
actively chosen.
- Benefit
* Users who don't know how to change their preference AND for whom the
default is suboptimal can select a different language from the
aforementioned obvious option.
- Slight negative
* Users who don't know how to change their preference AND for whom the
default is suboptimal AND who fail to noticed the obvious option can
almost certainly cope with the default language anyway.
- Slight negative
* Users who don't know about the preference, fail to spot the option to
change language, and can't cope with their default are likely to be a
very tiny minority.
- Serious negative, but probably only affecting a number of people that
tends towards zero.
If we ignore the language preferences sent by the user agent then *all*
users must actively identify the option for their language in the list
and select it.
So, in summary: Using the accept language header removes the need to
actively select the language from the great majority of users at the
cost of slightly reducing the ease of selecting a different language
for the minority.
I'm of the opinion that the increased difficulty is minimal and will
only effect a small minority of users and thus it is worth paying
attention to the accept language header.
I would like to see some evidence as to how many people would be
negatively effected by this (i.e. how many people are ignorant of the
language preferences and would set them to something other then the
default should that be otherwise) and how much extra difficulty it
would cause them to identify the obvious language selection option
(this would depend on the specifics of the implementation of that
option, which has not yet been discussed in this thread).
David Dorward
People who know how to use *their* software may not be using *their*
software but someone else's - and be polite enough to leave its settings
alone. In fact, in some settings, configuration of the software may be
impossible because it was set up that way precisely to *prevent* people
changing the settings. Think of libraries, schools, Internet cafes.
- negative UNLESS a web site provides an option to choose language
I have already addressed that in the post you are replying to: many people
do *not* get a sensible default.
Negative - but whether it is "slight" depends on the number of people involved.
Don't agree - your "almost certainly" assumes an amount of fluency in the
default language that is very often not present.
Where I live, that is not a small minority.
Maybe where *you* live, but not where *I* live.
Sounds like a good idea - because that way at least people *will* find out
(you did not address my question which you quoted: Just how do those people
even find out there is such a thing as a language preference?).
I don't agree with your "great majority". A majority, true, but it may not
be all that great.
See above - I don't agree with "small minority".
I'd also like to see how many people don't know about this setting. I'll
make a prediction though: a very large majority.
Cheers,
Marjolein Katsma
HomeSite Help - http://hshelp.com/ - Extensions, Tips and Tools
The Bookstore - http://books.hshelp.com/ - Books for webmasters and webrookies
Quoting Marjolein Katsma hgnje001@sneakemail.com :
If you have no fluency in the default language then everything except the link
to a lanugage you can read will be gibberish to you. If there is one
comprehensible peice of text on a page then it will stand out from the rest.
Jon Hanna
"?it has been truly said that hackers have even more words for
equipment failures than Yiddish has for obnoxious people." - jargon.txt
