Just for clarification :)
The techniques for the color contrast seems to be very vague. Example and
deprecated example are about color names and not about color contrast.
There seems to have no writtent rationale for the use of color numbers in
the document WCAG10-CSS-TECHS. I'm looking for it(?) Any help? :)
See
9.1 Color contrast
Checkpoints in this section:
*2.2 Ensure that foreground and background color combinations provide
sufficient contrast when viewed by someone having color deficits or when
viewed on a black and white screen. [Priority 2 for images, Priority 3 for
text].
Techniques:
*Use numbers, not names, for colors.
Karl Dubost - http://www.la-grange.net/
Pr?s de vous, madame, oubliant les cieux,
L'astronome ?tonn? se trouble;
C'est dans l'?clat caressant de vos yeux,
Qu'il avait cru trouver l'?toile double.
I was asked the same question a little while ago. I think the
rationale is that "names" are ambiguous, and may not even be set on
some UAs, whereas numbers are exact and should always be interpreted
properly on UAs. *However*, I thought that using names of colors may
allow a user to set the value that they wish for those names ("red at
#a00000" etc.), acutally providing the user with more control, so I've
never been too happy with that section in the TECHS document.
Kindest Regards,
Sean B. Palmer
@prefix : http://webns.net/roughterms/ .
:Sean :hasHomepage http://infomesh.net/sbp/ .
As I recall, Netscape borrowed its settings from the X Window System's
rgb.txt file, which has a zillion and one settings (including things like
"aliceblue" and percentages of gray), while IE 3 only knew of the 16 color
names in the HTML spec. So if you chose a color outside of the range of
known names, you got the default, whereas sRGB values stayed constant
(relative to OS color-matching). The problem was that no user agent provides
the kind of facility you're talking about (user-controlled name-value
pairs).
I know that newer versions of IE support the range of color names (mostly
because I use "aliceblue" to test elements...), but outside of the major
browsers (and devices), they're prone to failure outside the sixteen sRGB
values specified in the HTML 4.01 spec:
