I'm not trying to come down from the mountain and say, "This is what the
application core protocol should look like"; I just wanted to throw
something out there so that we'd have something to talk about (assuming
that we get a BOF at the next IETF).
Since you mentioned the subject .. does anyone know how the IETF agenda and
BOF schedule is developing?
The IETF web site agenda has not been updated since the 9th and we are just
2 weeks away.
Richard Shockey
Shockey Consulting LLC
8045 Big Bend Blvd. Suite 110
St. Louis, MO 63119
Voice 314.918.9020

I think that people have to face the fact that the
IETF is now going to become a "trailing edge"
organization, not "leading edge". As with most
standards organizations, it can play a role in
documenting standards long AFTER they find
industry acceptance. In the old days, the IETF
could lead. In order to do that, they had to remain
at the leading edge. In my opinion, that is clearly
no longer the case....
Jim Fleming
Unir Corporation - UNIR and COM worlds @ http://www.activeworlds.com
vPC + C+@ + IPv8 + 2,048 TLDs...this network solution is simple...
I'm not trying to come down from the mountain and say, "This is what the
application core protocol should look like"; I just wanted to throw
something out there so that we'd have something to talk about (assuming
that we get a BOF at the next IETF).
at least for the apps area, all scheduling was still on hold until
last Monday. (we had groups pencilled in for slots but we wanted
to wait until the request deadline before announcing anything,
because we knew that changes were likely) even so we have had a
couple of late requests and the agenda folks are still juggling
things around to try to meet all of the constraints. but I've seen
a couple of BOF announcements go out this morning, so they'll probably
update the schedule soon.
Keith
Maybe I will get this in before the APPS ADs...
The usual exercise of changing the schedule to avoid the
worst clashes is going on in real time. Last I heard, the
tentative slot for Applcore was on Monday but *this may still
change*.
BTW assuming there is a BOF it will for sure not be discussing
specific solutions at this stage.
Brian
I concur. The BOF will focus on scope, constraints and charter bashing.
However, I encouraged Rob to put out his draft, because it doesn't hurt to
have a few strawmen around as a proof-of-concept and to show there's
interest in the problem.
- Chris
Jim,
IETF-bashing is not in scope for this list.
Keith
Do you feel that it is "bad" that the IETF is now
a trailing-edge standards organization, just like
the ITU, IEEE, and ANSI ?
I suspect that some would find it attractive to be
similar to those organizations. Clearly, many of the
IETF members do. Those members collectively
define whether the IETF is leading-edge or trailing-edge.
Jim Fleming
Unir Corporation - UNIR and COM worlds @ http://www.activeworlds.com
vPC + C+@ + IPv8 + 2,048 TLDs...this network solution is simple...
