Brain, are you or Paul interested in making a testimonial about the wonders
of Authoring tool accessibility guidelines and how much better they will make
the world, as part of a press release if we get to recommendation soon?
(If so, please contact Judy Brewer - jbrewer@w3.org ASAP - I would love to
have a few more people from around the world showing that W3C work isn't
really all about the USA...
How goes it? I am now working remotely from Oz - I came back this week. I
have a deal to come to Bristol with Dan Brickley, so he suggested we all get
together (prbbaly late APril) and do some drinking of pints and talking of
garbage and maybe even some thinking about the wep or webb or whatever it
is...
Cheers
charles
We are pleased to announce that "Exploit Interactive" issue 3 is now
available at the URL:
"Exploit Interactive" is a web magazine which is funded by the European
Commission's Telematics for Libraries programme. This issue has the
theme of accessibility and internationalisation. It includes articles
on the Web Accessibility Initiative, CAST's Bobby accessibility tool,
the MIRACLE project, multilingual subject gateways and automated
translation services. Many other articles are also available, including
features on the DEBORA, EQUINOX and TACIS Telematics for Libraries
projects.
The theme for issue 4 (due to be published at the end of January) is
"Services for the New Millennium". This will provide, for example, an
opportunity for services, projects and organisations to publicise new
services. If you would like to contribute please email the Exploit
Interactive editors at exploit-editor@ukoln.ac.uk
Feel free to forward this message as appropriate.
Thanks
Brian Kelly
Brian Kelly, UK Web Focus
UKOLN, University of Bath, BATH, England, BA2 7AY
Homepage: http://www.ukoln.ac.uk/ukoln/staff/b.kelly.html
W3C Web Accessibility Initiative http://www.w3.org/WAI
21 Mitchell Street, Footscray, VIC 3011, Australia (I've moved!)
Rae asks: are you still carting your trunk of medieval costume around the
world?
jay@peepo.com
Wrell, it has settles itself back in Australia (where we are going to use it
on the weekend...)
cheeers
Charles
Rae asks: are you still carting your trunk of medieval costume around the
world?
jay@peepo.com
W3C Web Accessibility Initiative http://www.w3.org/WAI
21 Mitchell Street, Footscray, VIC 3011, Australia (I've moved!)
