Several have commented that the "clown" that should be in the top left
hand corner is some times all over the place depending upon which version
of browser, particularly Netscape, they are using.
That is to be expected. Your "clown" image is being positioned with the in-
line style "position: absolute; left: 14; top: 26". This is CSS2, and
support for CSS2 is inconsistent among browsers.
I have also used W3C HTML and CSS validation service which indicate a
truck load of errors, all rather meaningless to this novice.
Two of your validation errors are related to your "clown" image. You're
specifying the position for the "left" and "top" and as "14" and "26" --
but 14 and 26 what? Pixels? Inches? You must specify a unit, so that the
browsers will know how much space to leave. Browsers are supposed to
ignore improper CSS, but some do and some don't (and are instead making
assumptions about what you meant, which may or may not be what you
intended).
I am not a programer and never intent to be;
You don't need to be a programmer to use HTML and CSS, but unless you
restrict it (via "Tools | Page Options | Compatibility"), FrontPage is
going to use advanced features that have limited availability, and you do
need to understand what those features do and how well supported they are
on the browsers your audience will use.
A good starting place is Dave Raggett's "Getting started with HTML" page:
For a wealth of CSS information, try:
Usenet newsgroups can offer help with specific problems:
comp.infosystems.www.authoring.html (help with HTML)
comp.infosystems.www.authoring.stylesheets (help with CSS)
microsoft.public.frontpage.client (help with FrontPage)
So is Tidy for me?
Tidy is a good tool for turning invalid HTML into valid HTML. However, to
do so, often Tidy has to guess at what you meant to do. It does a very
good job but cannot guess correctly every time, so a better approach would
be to attempt to write valid HTML initially and let Tidy correct the
occasional mistake.
Will it fix my Frontpage2000 problems?
Even if you correct your positioning syntax, that won't mean that a given
browser will support a feature that it didn't support before. It will mean
that you will have the highest likelihood of success in getting browsers to
render what they do support properly.
Can I incorporate it into Frontpage2000?
I don't know what you mean by "incorporate." You can run Tidy on pages
produced by FrontPage as a separate step.
Which Tidy program would suit me: Tidy.exe or TidyGUI (I run Win 98se)
Use Tidy if you prefer to work from the command line, or use TidyGUI if you
prefer to work with windowed dialogs.
-- Dave
You might want to check out HTML-Kit. It's an HTML editor which integrates
with tidy and does a whole host of useful stuff (too much to mention here).
You can download the latest version from:
~ Richard Allsebrook ~
Applications Developer and Webmaster
Easysoft Limited, No3 The Embankment, Leeds, LS1 4BJ
The Home of Data Access Middleware
"A computer lets you make more mistakes faster than any invention in human
history-with the possible exceptions of handguns and tequila."
Of Chas Bullock &amp; Stephen Webster
I am a rank amateur at web design and use Frontpage 2000 to put up a small
homepage for my family and friends. Several have commented that the "clown"
that should be in the top left hand corner is some times all over the place
depending upon which version of browser, particularly Netscape, they are
using.
I have also used W3C HTML and CSS validation service which indicate a
truck load of errors, all rather meaningless to this novice.
I am not a programer and never intent to be;
So is Tidy for me?
Will it fix my Frontpage2000 problems?
Can I incorporate it into Frontpage2000?
Which Tidy program would suit me: Tidy.exe or TidyGUI (I run Win 98se)
Thank you for your time.
Chas &amp; Stephen
View our home page at
(http://homepages.tig.com.au/~weblock)
