To help move things forward with the wordnet activity, I've taken a first
pass at translating Guus' note into RDF/XML. So far, all I've done is the
RDFS stuff, OWL to follow. There are some changes from Guus' note, most/all
of which are marked as an issue or with an @@.
I've also taken the liberty of starting of a strawman note that includes an
overview diagram of the ontology.
The files are in the attached zip.
Brian
From a quick quick look, is nice progress. I'd add in a status/scope
disclaimer of some kind though, to note early on something like...
"This document presents an RDF/OWL representation of the entire structure of
Wordnet. By doing so, we allow Wordnet data to be accessed via RDF APIs
and query languages, and to be mixed with non-Wordnet data, as well as
with other lexically-oriented material, such as extensions to, and
derrivatives of, Wordnet and Wordnet-tagged corpuses. A related but
distinct activity would be to describe the use of Wordnet as a basis for
RDF/OWL class and/or property hierarchy. Wordnet's noun term (hypernym)
hierarchy captures "an X is a kind of Y" relationships between English
category terms based on conventional usage. While there are several
projects working in this area, it is not a task we currently address in
this document.
This current document does not explore the issues raised
by the mapping of Wordnet structures into RDF (eg. noun terms and/or
synsets into classes). Future revisions of this document, or companion
documents, may address some of the issues this raises, such as the
different assumptions underlying lexical databases when contrasted with
formal ontologies. Here we concentrate on reflecting into RDF/XML the
core structures and content of Wordnet, without consideration for
mapping those notions into RDF's own notions of classes, properties and
instances.
This approach echoes that of SKOS [ref], which reflects into
RDF the broader/narrower relationships used by thesauri, without
requiring that each thesauri be re-engineered as an RDF/OWL class
hierarchy. Unlike SKOS, the structuring vocabulary used here draws
directly from the conceptual framework underpinning Wordnet, allowing
for concepts such as 'antonym' to be used to relate concepts/synsets.
It may be possible for future versions of this document and SKOS to
share more common structure, since the structuring vocabularies address
similar (yet distinct) problems."
Hmm ok that was off the top of my head, and also a bit of an attempt to
explain how three different workitems we are playing with might fit
together. Not sure how best to use it. Comments welcomed...
cheers,
Dan
Thanks to Brian for the good presentation effort.
I agree on the disclaimer by Dan, and it nicely fit the draft note
I've just posted as a TF description.
Let's move on then
Aldo
Aldo Gangemi
Research Scientist
Laboratory for Applied Ontology
Institute for Cognitive Sciences and Technology
National Research Council (ISTC-CNR)
Via Nomentana 56, 00161, Roma, Italy
a.gangemi@istc.cnr.it
