Hi Dadi,
How can one counter the argument of so ruthlessly reaching the
almighty "deadline" that quality falls by the wayside?
Can you make the "quality" tangible and meaningful to whoever is
making the tradeoff?
If I did that it would probably get me in trouble with my manager ;-) No,
really, that is what I must do but I?m afraid that I?m not going to be able
to get it across because the delay between cause and effect is quite long
here. This is the reason refactoring and test-first, not to mention
pair-programming, has been a pretty hard sell. Also the effects may not even
be noticeable to the customer or the manager because they haven?t really
been able to experience the effects of the disciplined applications of the
XP practices. But, I guess you?re saying I need to find a way to shorten
this delay. Any suggestions?
Who suffers because quality has fallen?
Mostly the customer, but also the programmers.
In what ways do they suffer? How great is the pain? When do they
experience the pain?
This is what I?m referring to in the first part of my reply. If this is the
speed at which this customer has been getting his software it may not
register as pain to him at all.
Can they see how the pain results from the
choices that led quality to fall?
Somehow I need to make them see it because they certainly are not seeing it
now.
Dale
Regards,
Dadi.
[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]
To Post a message, send it to: extremeprogramming@eGroups.com
To Unsubscribe, send a blank message to: extremeprogramming-unsubscribe@eGroups.com
ad-free courtesy of objectmentor.com
Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to http://docs.yahoo.com/info/terms/
Hi Da?i!
This is precisely the problem: the customer is NOT aware of it and I
am NOT
very willing to deliver low-quality work.
Ultimately, that leaves you only one choice - don't deliver low quality
work. What can your manager do if you're not done yet?
Pressure me into delivering in spite of the low-quality.
The project manager does not see a
reason to tell the customer this though :-(
That's a rather tough one. At least from here, it looks like your
manager willingly delivers substandard work and deceives the customer
about it. Which, in all likelihood, just means that we're missing a
piece of the puzzle. There are very few people out there who'd really
knowingly do that.
I agree. She is just annoyed if I bring this quality issue forth because she
believes that delivering substandard work at the right time is better than
delivering high-quality work at a later date or reducing the scope of the
release.
This is not being put in the hands of the customer, it is being
handled this
way by us because the manager says we need to reach that "deadline"!
How did she arrive at that deadline? As a first effort to get things to
change, can you get involved in the process of setting the deadline?
The deadline was pretty much fixed in stone since the application won?t
deliver business value to the customer unless it contained a certain set of
features.
The customer just needs to be made aware of the fact that she is
simply
borrowing against future development effort. Development effort you
"saved" this time will simply accrue interest and be due later on.
I keep telling my manager this and she realizes this is a problem but
she
sees this as our problem not the customer?s.
Maybe it only is your problem. Can you show her how it affects the
customer? And if it is your problem, can you find a way how it would
become less of a problem for your company?
It is the customer?s problem since he will incur higher cost for future
work. The way to make it less of a problem for me or my company is to focus
more on delivering high quality work, use the Planning Game to gauge our
velocity and communicating more with our customer.
Maybe she needed the complete working version exactly at the
deadline,
and is indeed willing to pay the price for bugs and cleanups later on
this is her call to make. Just make sure she's aware of the cost.
Can you make the likely problems for stage 2 visible to your manager?
Even better, can you demonstrate how those problems might have been
caused by shortcuts in stage 1, without offending her? Can you offer
help with the estimation of the next iteration?
I must do all of the above :-)
Good luck,
- Robert
Thanks, I?m gonna need it :-)
Dadi.
[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]
To Post a message, send it to: extremeprogramming@eGroups.com
To Unsubscribe, send a blank message to: extremeprogramming-unsubscribe@eGroups.com
ad-free courtesy of objectmentor.com
Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to http://docs.yahoo.com/info/terms/
Hi Dadi,
Ultimately, that leaves you only one choice - don't deliver
low quality work. What can your manager do if you're not done
yet?
Pressure you how? What did your manager do that pressured you?
Make me feel that spending "too much time" (in her opinion) on testing,
refactoring and pairing would make us slip the date and that must absolutely
not happen. In essence, she clearly indicated that she equates delivering on
time with quality service even though the quality of the delivered product
suffered from the intense focus on prompt delivery. Also, she does not feel
that we should be "bothering" the customer with talk of technical quality.
Regards,
Dadi
[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]
To Post a message, send it to: extremeprogramming@eGroups.com
To Unsubscribe, send a blank message to: extremeprogramming-unsubscribe@eGroups.com
ad-free courtesy of objectmentor.com
Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to http://docs.yahoo.com/info/terms/
absolutely
on
product
feel
quality.
I think that, if that is her opinion, then the only way to keep her
happy is to deliver on time. If you cannot deliver on time and with high
quality, then I see two options:
* continue to deliver on time with decreasing quality until the day
comes that poor quality makes it impossible for you to deliver on time,
then start working for someone else
* start working for someone else now
I will most likely take the first option but try over time to have more of a
dialogue about these issues rather than the discussion/argument, per Senge,
of the last few months.
Regards,
Dadi.
[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]
To Post a message, send it to: extremeprogramming@eGroups.com
To Unsubscribe, send a blank message to: extremeprogramming-unsubscribe@eGroups.com
ad-free courtesy of objectmentor.com
Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to http://docs.yahoo.com/info/terms/
