I have a question regarding the SignedInfo "Type" attribute:
In the latest draft version (19991217) section 2.3 asserts the
following:
"The optional Type attribute provides information about the content of
the
resource identified by URI/IDREF. In particular, it can indicate that
it
contains a SignatureProperties, Manifest, or Package element."
If the ressource is identified by an IDREF, I think there is no problem.
But what happens if the ressource is part of an XML document and is
identified by means of an URI and a XPath Transform? Is this possible
at all? If yes, what does the assignment of the "Type" attribute mean
in that case?
Example:
Transform
Algorithm="http://www.w3.org/TR/1999/REC-xpath-19991116"
AnyXPathTransformSelectingAManifestElement
Regards, Gregor
Gregor Karlinger
Institute for Applied Information Processing and Communications
Austria
I do not understand what problem you see. Core signature
verification, in the example you give, would require that the Manifest
be fetched, digested, and this digest checked again the DigestValue in
Reference in SignedInfo. In that regard it is of no partciular
significant that it happens to be a Manifest as opposed to plain data.
However, many applications will want to further vefify the digests
inside Manifests, perhaps recursively to many levels.
Donald
From: Gregor Karlinger Gregor.Karlinger@iaik.at
Message-ID: 385E0E76.4DF32276@iaik.at
Date: Mon, 20 Dec 1999 12:09:42 +0100
Organization: IAIK
Donald Eastlake dee3@torque.pothole.com
So I conclude the following (please tell me if I am wrong):
If the Type attribute of Reference indicates a manifest, but the URI
attribute does not refer to a XML-Document which root element is a
manifest, that is an application problem and does not touch core
behaviour, i.e. the correctness of the type attribute is not checked
by core behaviour.
Gregor
Gregor Karlinger
Institute for Applied Information Processing and Communications
Austria
Yes. (I'm not particularly fond of type because of this confusion.) We can
make this more clear in the spec.
Joseph Reagle Jr.
Policy Analyst mailto:reagle@w3.org
XML-Signature Co-Chair http://www.w3.org/People/Reagle/
