Ian Jacobs is an editor with considerable experience in developing W3C
working drafts and recommendations, and he has made several excellent
suggestions for improving the UA working draft. One of the overriding
comments was that the document needed better background and definition
information for referencing key terms and orienting users to the different
sections of the guideline.
The following is a new table of contents for the browser document:
1.0 Introduction
2.0 General Principles of accessible design
3.0 Assistive Technology
4.0 Parts of a Browser User Agent
5.0 Interaction with a document
6.0 CSS Support
7.0 Presentation
8.0 Orientation
9.0 Navigation
10.0 Visibility
11.0 Operating System Aceessibility Compatibility
Ian is currently setting up the documents to better handle revising the
document and tracking comments on issues that are rasied in the group.
This will take a few days to setup. Anyone with any comments on the
guidelines structure is urged to speak up now, since there will be some
major changes in the dcoument over the next week.
Jon
Jon Gunderson, Ph.D., ATP
Coordinator of Assistive Communication and Information Technology
Division of Rehabilitation - Education Services
University of Illinois at Urbana/Champaign
1207 S. Oak Street
Champaign, IL 61820
Voice: 217-244-5870
E-mail: jongund@uiuc.edu
WWW:http://www.staff.uiuc.edu/~jongund
I think 2,3,4,5 (even though I don't know the exact content) could be
folded into one background section, so that people that *knows* about
this stuff can jump directly into the guideliens per se.
I'd like 6.0 to be more "Format Support" or "Standard Support",
something that would include more that just CSS, but also HTML, and
maybe more later.
I fact, it could include 11.0 and be a "Capability" section: support
html4, css, local os stuff, etc.
Ok.
Yes, the latter sounds good. I brought up CSS explicitly
because
(1) there are some guidelines that only make sense
for UAs that implement CSS; these guidelines should be
grouped together (at least I think for the moment, although
experience will determine whether this organization works).
(2) there are concepts like "default values" that are well-defined
in CSS (defaults cascade with author and user style sheets) and
so a general term like "UA defaults" should be defined with
the CSS meaning in mind, and should be consistent with it, even
if the definition does not rely on the notion of style sheets.
- Ian
Ian Jacobs / 401 Second Ave. #19G / New York, NY 10010 USA
