Consider this issue from the client's point of view. The client asks
the server to save a document as a new version. The server generates
a new version id. The client now wants to reference the new version.
How does the client find out what the new version id is?
Barbara Bazemore
From: Jim Whitehead [SMTP:ejw@ics.uci.edu]
Subject: Re: Requirements Changes for Your Review
4. Server-generated version ids: Is there a requirement for clients
to be
able to request that the server generate an id for a new version?
(5.9.2.8)
This does look strange. I think the best course is to delete 5.9.2.8
since 5.9.2.9 adequately describes the behavior we desire (a client
can specify an identifier, which the server does not have to use, in
which case the server generates its own version identifier.)
Judy Slein:
4. Server-generated version ids: Is there a requirement for clients to be
able to request that the server generate an id for a new version? (5.9.2.8)
Barbara Bazemore:
Perhaps there's a way of rewriting the requirement so that it
focuses on the intent rather than the mechanism:
"A simple client should be able to create new versions and reference
the new version in a way that is transparent to the way in which
version IDs are generated, coded, or parsed. For example, if a client
saves a document as a new version and the server generates a new
version
ID, the client should be given or be able to easily discover the
version ID of the newly generated version."
Larry
We can't even be sure there will be version IDs. There is absolutely no
requirement for one in DAV because all versions are required to be
uniquely identified by URLs. This is the sort of issue that needs to be
argued out in implementation. The requirement is that Versions must be
identifiable by a URL, it is up to the spec to decide if having two
identifiers is useful.
Yaron
4. Server-generated version ids: Is there a requirement for clients
able to request that the server generate an id for a new version?
I believe people writing clients would be well served with a variation
of Larry's suggested requirement:
?"A client with appropriate access rights shall be able to save a
document on the server using a standard request. The server may use an
existing URL or generate a new one to uniquely describe the saved
document. In either case, the server must provide an easy, standard
way for the client to discover the URL of the document that was
saved."
From: Yaron Goland [SMTP:yarong@microsoft.com]
Subject: RE: Server-generated version ids
We can't even be sure there will be version IDs. There is absolutely
no
requirement for one in DAV because all versions are required to be
uniquely identified by URLs. This is the sort of issue that needs to
be
argued out in implementation. The requirement is that Versions must
be
identifiable by a URL, it is up to the spec to decide if having two
identifiers is useful.
Yaron
4. Server-generated version ids: Is there a requirement for
clients
able to request that the server generate an id for a new version?
reference
client
