I've a few questions regarding the X509Data element.
1) Why impose the choice over X509IssuerSerial, X509SKI and X509SubjectName in the definition of X509Data? There are certainly situations where having X509IssuerSerial and X509SubjectName is desirable/necessary. Including both is still possible to do using the DTD/Schema as it currently exists but is not as concise as simply removing the choice.
2) There are some issues regarding the string representation of DNs as described in RFC2253. Minimally, it permits the usage of ' ' and ' ' in ways that won't work in XML.
From XML spec:
The ampersand character (&amp;) and the left angle bracket ( ) may appear in their literal form only when used as markup delimiters, or within a comment, a processing instruction, or a CDATA section.
From RFC2253, amongst other references to ' ' and ' ':
Implementations MUST allow a value to be surrounded by quote ('"'ASCII 34) characters, which are not part of the value. Inside the quoted value, the following characters can occur without any escaping:
",", "=", "+", " ", " ", "#" and ";"
Carl Wallace
CygnaCom Solutions
Carl,
You have to use the escaping mechanism of XML here. Instead of the left angle bracket you
can use the corresponding character entity "". If the parser parses your DN containing
this entity string, it is replaced by the orginal left angle character again, e.g.
your DN: "Jim  Jack"
encoding of XML character data: "Jim  Jack"
after parsing: "Jim  Jack"
Gregor
Gregor Karlinger
Institute for Applied Information Processing and Communications
Austria
angle bracket you
your DN containing
again, e.g.
Exactly, but there should be some text to this effect in the spec. The text
in 4.4 states that IssuerSerial contains an RFC2253 encoded DN. Since
RFC2253 explicitly permits encoded DNs that are unacceptable for our
purposes some mention should be made in the text, in my opinion.
Carl
Carl,
I don't think that this has to be mentioned in the draft since it is a kind
of "normal" processing described in the XML 1.0 specification anyway.
Gregor
Gregor Karlinger
Institute for Applied Information Processing and Communications
Austria
