We are in the process of redesigning a multiple company extranet and have
learned that a huge number of our users have Netscape 4.X as their browser.
Consequently, some of our team is reluctant to design using standards (the main
concern is using CSS) since it will mess up the design we have already created.
The concerns include CSS becoming overhead and that keeping track of how the
various workarounds for Netscape 4.x work and don't work, along with the
inheritance issues, will take a huge amount of time. I would love to know what
some of our options are, but don't have the technical expertise to make a strong
case. Any advice?
Give up Netscape 4 or give up standards.
First, it *is* possible to code for NN4 using valid, strict
(X)HTML and CSS. Of course, you can't create the same
sofisticated layouts and visually perfect designs as for modern
browsers, but your documents can still be fully accessible and
usable.
Second, is not HTML 4.0 Transitional a valid standard? We may
consider XHTML + CSS layout a better standard, however the
transitional specs are standards as well and there is nothing
wrong with a table layout, provided it's done properly.
Best,
Marek Prokop
Give up Netscape 4 or give up standards.
We are in complete agreement on those points ;)
I think this is where I got off on the wrong foot on the interpretation with
Austin. In my opinion (and personal as well as professional situation), we
have moved beyond HTML4 and into XHTML + CSS. The only browser we had to
leave behind was Netscape 4, and considering that Denmark has less than 1%
Netscape users (combined), that was hardly a difficult choice.
Of course HTML 4 Transitional is still a valid standard, and if Mike wants
Netscape 4 support he will most likely have to settle for it. I just hope he
is now aware of the limitations and degredations that he willingly impose on
himself through that decision.
Thor Larholm
URL: http://www.jibbering.com/faq/ FAQ for comp.lang.javascript
URL: http://jscript.dk/unpatched/ Unpatched IE vulnerabilities
I wanted to ask the group about this. What version of (X)HTML should a
competent web designer use this days? Assuming that his/her design would
work in all versions.
I've been reading a lot about XHTML and liking it, but is any compatibility
sacrificed if I leave HTML behind and go straight to XHTML 1.1 for all my
work? Will Netscape 4 survive this, thanks to the transitional
backwards-compatibility of XHTML? Or is it safer, at this junction, to
still use HTML 4.0.1?
I've being doing this gig since the early nineties, so I'm used to waiting
(and waiting...) for good technology to be adopted across all pertinent
browsers. Is the time right for universal use of XHTML? Or are there
still caveats?
Wondering...
-Joseph
I've never had problems with using XHTML for web-authoring. I would
stay away from XHTML 1.1 right now since it cannot technically be served
as text/html. XHTML 1.0 Strict is essentially the same thing and if the
rules are followed, it can be served as text/html.
Brant Langer Gurganus
Editor, Open Directory Project
Default QA Contact, Mozilla Evangelism
Technician, Protonic.com
Webmaster, troop545.cjb.net
Webmaster, www.firecrafter.org
Webmaster, www.msdpt.k12.in.us/etspages/ph
Junior Assistant Scoutmaster, Troop 545
Eagle Scout, Boy Scouts of America
Member, Internet Society
Hallo Briant
served
the
that also XHTML 1.0 strict should be served as 'application/xhtml+xml'
greetings
Ineke van der Maat
Quoting Joseph McLean joseph@secondflux.com :
Hello,
Using XHTML don't guarantee me being a competent designer, but personally I've
been using XHTML 1.1 DTD[1] for some time. There has been no problems with older
browsers, excluding thead-tfoot-tbody -structure. Last weekend I had to make
one compromise using "border" attribute for an anchored image to prevent it
being bordered with NN4.x. As we know, CSS's border property don't render
properly in NN4.x
When one should re-write a HTML 4.01 -document straight to valid XHTML, there
may appear some problems. For instance, CSS is treated partly differently[2]
with XHTML DTD, and "converting" element's attributes to CSS can also bring
problems.
If people keep waiting and asking "Has the time come for ...", nothing actually
evolves. Start using XHTML when you think it'd be appropriate - not when someone
tells you to do so.
Best Regards,
Samuli Hakoniemi
[1] http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd
[2] Eg., overflow property acts differently in BODY and TEXTAREA elements
depending on DTD.
