In the process of changing the SHOULD to a MAY, and the cleanup of the
first sentence, I realized that most of the section needs rewrite to properly
cover pipelining of a sequence of requests; as written, it only talked
about individual requests. Here's my rewrite for sanity's sake.
Let me know if anyone sees a problem.
- Jim
Old:
8.2.3 Automatic Retrying of Requests
If a user agent sees the transport connection close before it receives
a final response to its request, if the request method is idempotent (see
section 9.1.2), the user agent SHOULD retry the request without user
interaction. If the request method is not idempotent, the user agent SHOULD
NOT retry the request without user confirmation. (Confirmation by user-agent
software with semantic understanding of the application MAY substitute
for user confirmation.)
New:
8.2.3 Automatic Retrying of Requests
If a user agent sees the transport connection close before it receives
all of the final response to its request or sequence of requests, if the
requests or sequence are idempotent (see section 9.1.2), the user agent
MAY retry the request or sequence without user interaction. If the request
method or sequence is not idempotent, the user agent SHOULD NOT retry
the request without user confirmation. (Confirmation by user-agent software
with semantic understanding of the application MAY substitute for user
confirmation.)
Jim Gettys
Digital Industry Standards and Consortia
Compaq Computer Corporation
Visting Scientist, World Wide Web Consortium, M.I.T.
jg@w3.org, jg@pa.dec.com
If blah-blah-1, if blah-blah-2, then yadda-yadda-a. If blah-blah-3, then
yadda-yadda-b. (Parenthetical-c).
--
If blah-blah-1:
If blah-blah-2 then yadda-yadda-a.
If blah-blah-3 then yadda-yadda-b. (Parenthetical-c).
would be clearer.
If at first you don't succeed, try try again... Actually, the problem
is a missing "and" connecting the phrases.
Here's take two:
8.2.3 Automatic Retrying of Requests
If a user agent sees the transport connection close before it receives
all of the final response to its request or sequence of requests, and
if the requests or sequence are idempotent (see section 9.1.2), the user
agent MAY retry the request or sequence without user interaction. If the
request method or sequence is not idempotent, the user agent SHOULD NOT
retry the request without user confirmation. (Confirmation by user-agent
software with semantic understanding of the application MAY substitute
for user confirmation.)
- Jim
