20 Sept 2001 minutes
Present
? Jo
? Wendy
? Tim
? Loretta
? Jason
? Katie
? Gregg
Regrets
? Matt
? Charles
Issues
This discussion is based on the Big issues. 19 Sept 2001 - Gregg
Vanderheiden e-mail list of issues raised at the 10/11 Sept F2F meetings.
GV Only posted the 3 documents yesterday. Since not enough time to review,
perhaps leave discussion until next week. Are there other big issues we can
generate? Perhaps we can put some of them to bed. Anne said that it didn't
seem like a number of the big issues were addressed by the consensus items.
JW We need to reach the point where we can draft a conformance and priority
scheme.
GV As I look at the list of issues..."what is an equivalent" is #4. Can we
sort out those that deal with conformance and priorities and go for those
first? As I look at them, they all seem to relate to priorities. I would
like to start at the top and walk down the list to see if we have a
nomination for something to work from. OR is there a question to answer
before we tackle - i.e. a work item to tackle before moving forward.
KHS Baseline capabilities.
LGR Would like Cynthia here for this discussion.
JW Baseline tightly coupled with technology-specifics.
LGR Content developer needs to know what is reasonable to assume. then
someone assumes "latest and greatest" then ok as long as they say that?
JW That's one position they could adopt. Would not be good for
interoperability.
GV The consensus statement is: Techniques should specifiy if particular
browsers are needed.
JW Or particular support for a particular standard. e.g. CSS2 vs CSS1.
GV Another stab, "Techniques should specifiy if particular browsers are
needed or specify particular technologies. e.g. you must have CSS2 support
for this technique."
JW Yes, gives people choice how far back they want to take backwards
compatibility.
GV If a company says, "i have to work back to Netscape Communicator 2",
they can't use CSS, etc.
JW Unless they transform gracefully.
GV They can't depend on CSS for default presentation. We used to have an
assumption that if accessible via lYnx that is good.
JM I don't think anyone is saying "we want the site to support NS2" but
lynx seems reasonable. This brings us back to Cynthia's original question
(re: client-side scripting).
GV Her question is, "accessible as long as support client-side scripting."
or can't you assume scripting?
JM I don't want to put words into her mouth, but we have not made a
statement about if site should work with javascript off, or unsupported.
JW Could be asked for SVG, SMIL, etc. We're plannig techniques for all of
those. Therefore, content developer have to make a choice whether to
support or not based on how inclusive they want to be.
GV Do we think that pages should be accessible with browser that do not
support scripting?
JM If the decision is that we won't make a decision and give them
techniques for them to make their choices, we need to state that explicitly.
GV If we leave it to the dev, we have made a decision. Implies, requiring
scripts is ok.
WC We might want to do some research.
JW I think that devs should be aware of the consequences of either option.
If require them, there are a variety of UAs that won't support them or
turne doff for security. Therefore, limiting audience in some way. I'm a
bit worried about mobile devices which don't have many resources.
WC WAPScript. Need to do some research.
GV Then deciding all users must support scripting in their browser.
WC Raman's client-side proxy that will interpret client-side scripts.
JW Then this issue will disappear for certain types of issues. Still issue
with if we want to impose that assumption across technologies. Make
decisions about when or not people will use.
JM What type of research, Wendy?
WC Similar to survey sent out about a year ago, but sent to wider audience,
perhaps ask help from organizations in disability community. Also needs to
bedesigned to get feedback from non-technical, e.g. test page and ask for
results.
JW Can't have in normative, since changing all the time.
WC "until user agents", although bain of existence for 1.0, was helpful in
that it separated those things that authors had to do forever, from those
that they wouldn' thave to do once user agents or other types of clients
support. This distinction is helpful, although not sure how to address.
GV If write for the future, today some pages will be inaccessible. Perhaps
we should do that. Let's argue the point to discuss. I'm not convinced
myself. No matter what we do with the guidelines, some people will not be
able to things. If we write with until user agents, it gets complicated:
who decides when true? instead if we say, "these do not desribe everything
you can do to make accessible" put in the techniques. In techniques say,
"you can use scripts, and call pages accessible, but there are some people
who won't be able to use it." Here are more things you can do...it will be
more straightforward than until user agents. We can say, "this is a
reasonable set" and people should program pages to it and assistive tech
and user agents should build to it. Things will get more accessible over time.
JW With our guidelines as they stand we don't need to address the issue
there since the guidelines are not technology-specific. The techniques are
and that's where the problem is dealt with. There are different ways of
doing it. What I had in mind, was to state the assumptions on each
technique as to what support it required. PRovide informative info
elsewhere. Keep that info up to date.
GV Technology-specific checkpoints are normative, techniques are
informative. Put in techniques and are all right.
JW Yes, thought we had decided that long ago.
GV This works if people use all three pieces. The only hitch, is that some
people are only looking at normative info. If normative says, "I can use
scripts." then they will only do that. Won't dig to find that page should
be used w/out.
JW Don't put it in techniques, put it own document or annotated version of
the technology-specific document.
GV But they are only looking at the normative docs.
JW Normative says, "do a or b, or do a, or b and c" and "a requires support
for X and b does not require support for x" then they make that decision on
what they think is supported.
JM Give them as much supporting material as possible. I see the rationale
of removing from normative, but many people will not go beyond it. I
predict that when 2.0 replaces 1.0, there will be articles that say "what's
new." In 1.0 they will say, "script usable when turned off in 1.0, in 2.0
no longer needed." therefore, we have effectively said, "go wild with
javascript."
JW It would be unworkable to have that info in a normative doc.
WC Could look at W3C process for publishing update. Updates have been done
for errors, but WCAG is reflecting current state of the art which is a new
situation for W3C.
GV Isn't this just "until user agents" in different clothing? Now we're
saying "there's a technique you have to do but you can't do this unless
these technologies are supported."
JW It's different. Previously we didn't spell out the techniques as
alternatives as clearly as we could.
GV If we say "do a, or b, or c" if someone comes up with "d" then they
won't conform.
WC Gregory proposed this, as did GV, that there would always be "d" that
would outline the intent of the "rule" and that the content developer would
have to document what they did.
GV Yes, that's right.
GV Moving back to the list, what was the meaning of "2. User literacy level"?
KHS The reading level of the audience. It's a cynthia thing. Along the
lines of education.
JM I was asking if anything had been decided on it.
WC CS concerned that 3.3 require a minimum reading level, is very much against.
JW I wouldn't call it a big issue, but that this issues is one example of a
larger one. Can you design content to be comprehensible with less and less
assumptions of the abilities of the user. You need to determine when to
stop. How much to invest and how far to go.
JM More of 3.4.
JW 3.3. and 3.4. These are the most controversial.
WC Basically, the issue is "where do you draw the line?" You can't reach
100% of the audience, how can we help authors determine where to draw the line.
GV Big issues cover several checkpoints. "Differences by language" what
does that one mean?
KHS CMN issue?
JW Bidirectional issues with UA support. Subset of 1 and baseline capabilities.
GV Equivalents collapsed to 1.1.
JW related big issue - if anyone proposes to combine 3.4 and 1.1. The
question of whether to keep perception and conception requirments separate
and effect on conformance scheme.
GV Have something related to organization? Is the first set all perception?
guideline 1 also has structure. Structure important for cognition.
LRG This goes back to issues we agreed on. If we can't agree on things to
test/success criteria, then discussing if that should be in a separate
document or marked separately. Rather than zeroing in on cognition, then
look at what can test or not.
GV Yes. I thought one decision was not to claim conformance by disability.
JW This not necessarily by disability.
GV How doc is interpretted by non-tech people. Basically, we should write
as simply as possible. Therefore, can we agree on that?
JW Yes.
JM Links to definitions.
GV Implementation?
WC These discussions were minuted and perhaps we could look for
clarification there rather than trying to recreate them. Plus, we are over
5 minutes on the call and could clarify these on the list.
JW Were not minuted well. This is a good exercise.
GV I am pushing through to make sure we get these addressed.
* GV reads the rest of the list. All seem to be open.
$Date: 2001/09/20 21:38:55 $ Wendy Chisholm
wendy a chisholm
world wide web consortium
web accessibility initiative
seattle, wa usa
Is today Thursday? I've been thinking that it was Wednesday all day.
Belated regrets for the telecon. I'd intended to join you, but my brain
evidently had other plans. Sorry. My bad.
Chas. Munat
explicitly.
option.
AvantGo, and PocketIE which are currently palm sized devices and I think
are likely a better example of currently used and future mobile devices
than the failure that is WAP, both have reasonable scripting support,
although only really in the area of forms, and core script, other DOM
methods are generally unavailable especially in AvantGo.
I am absolutely horrified by the notion of requiring scripts, we have CERT
advisory's stating scripting should be disabled, we have a level of
scripting ability amongst developers that is pathetic, most can hardly
make scripts that work, let alone scripts that work and are accessible.
There's little that scripts give that make otherwise inaccessible content
accessible (are there some examples or even just ideas?)
I've now read and participated in most usenet and other community
javascript groups for 3 years or more, I've got a lot of scripting
knowledge and an interest in good scripting, what I see is little thought
of accessibility (even when the interest is there, appreciating how your
script may effect others isn't easy.) I also have to be honest and don't
believe from reading the previous minutes etc. that the group currently
has the knowledge of scripting to provide example and techniques in the
script arena that would be required to even explain how scripting could be
used accessibly let alone how it can be used to make inaccessible content
accessible.
I'm extremely pro-scripting, but it cannot and should not be relied on in
webpages.
Regards,
Jim.
When I first 'met' you on Usenet, Jim, I had pretty-much given up ever
seeing useful scripting on web pages. However, you have shown me a
range of really worthwhile script-based techniques that can be applied
at the _client_ side irrespective of the page-authors' intentions ;-)
that can help with accessing the (variously misguided) authors'
content.
By and large I'm afraid I have to agree with that verdict (after all,
if most of the page-provided scripts are notable only for their
nuisance value, and a not-insignificant small fraction are for
exploiting security holes, is it any wonder that users disable
scripting or filter it out?); but you've shown a number of useful
techniques which the client can apply, and it seems to me this has
considerable prospects for further development and exploitation.
all the best
