Thanks Gregg for both notes. I'm linking them from the WAI action
items page.
I have concern over strategy #2 being the prefered strategy. Strategy #2
is the most elegant from a programming standpoint. My main concern with #2
is visibility of the text description, which I beleive is important for
people to know it's there. Especially for non-disabled peers not familiar
with disability access options helping a person with a disability to learn
to use a browser. Strategy #1 is the most visible to people. Strategy #2
is going to be highly dependent on browser implementation and I don't know
how consistent browser developers will be in rendering the ALTSRC
information or easy it will be to configure it to render ALTSRC
information, since it will be a little used function by the general public
(just try turning off images in Netscape 4.01, if you know how let
me know).
I have the opposite reaction: I prefer #2 (ALTSRC attrib) over #1
(D-LINK markup) because is it less invasive for non-disabled persons.
The most important thing IMHO is get the LongDesc link into the HTML
source. Anything that might slow down acceptation of this feature by
Web authors should be avoided and having little D appearing all over
the pages is not going to help us.
How is it exploited by the client side is less important once the data
is there and the lack of UI consistency can be reduced using Browser
guidelines. In any case I think this is where competition might be
useful and healthy.
This discussion has raised the issue of the relationship between the
proposed ALTSRC attribute and user interface considerations. It may be
necessary to modify CSS syntax, if the ALTSRC idea is accepted, to enable
this attribute to act as a selector. Such modification could be made to
CSS syntax as a whole, or it could be a special feature that is available
to ACSS styles only.
If long descriptions are implemented by means of the OBJECT element as
exemplified in one of my earlier contributions to this discussion, then
clearly the existing CSS syntax would enable anchors with OBJECT elements
in their ancestry to be selected. This possibility is particularly
valuable when using ACSS, since it would allow anchors referring to long
descriptions to be spoken in a different voice or indicated with an
appropriate audio cue. Perhaps a link type for long descriptions needs to
be defined so that anchors which relate to long descriptions can be
properly differentiated from other anchors that might appear
within OBJECT elements. (rel="longdesc")?
Obviously, it would be important to have corresponding functionality with
respect to the ALTSRC proposal, hence the foregoing suggestion to modify
CSS or ACSS syntax.
I don't think I am arguing against #2. It seems to be a reasonable
approach to solving the general way to get alternative descriptions.
I have 2 concerns:
1. #1 can be done now and can work with any browser
2. #2 could easily become an invisible accessibility feature if know one
knows the information is there, since standard browser rendering would not
include the ALTREF information. Most people with disabilities will also
only know the ALTREF information is there if their non-disabled peers know
it's there, since most don't have access to people with specialized
disability access knowledge. Non-disabled peers will probably only know it
is there if there is some visual presentation or highly visible information
in a help file. But you can also say this of #1, since 99.999% of WWW
authors don't even know about it.
I think the key issue is how best to coax authors into adding the
description information (development tools) and how users will know it's
available (browser rendering).
Since there is no clear benefit to this information for non-disabled
persons (except people using low speed modems) I don't think browser
developers will devote alot of creative resources to this project. I would
argue it would be better to have a consistancy between browsers (guidelines
and example) of how to do it. So if a person with a disability upgrades
their browser or uses an unfamilar browser they could use their previous
experience to access the ALTREF information (if available).
Jon Gunderson
Coordinator of Assistive Communication and Information Technology
Division of Rehabilitation - Education Services
University of Illinois at Urbana/Champaign
1207 S. Oak Street
Champaign, IL 61820
Voice: 217-244-5870
E-mail: jongund@uiuc.edu
WWW:http://www.staff.uiuc.edu/~jongund
It is precisely such lack of knowledge which the education and awareness
component of the WAI will be intended to address. I agree with Daniel that
the D-link solution would probably be regarded by authors as too invasive
and as detracting from the aesthetic, presentational aspects of their
documents. I therefore would not support it, except perhaps as a short
term measure.
Furthermore, it has been assumed in this discussion that the user is
accessing the web via a visually-oriented browser and a screen reader.
This assumption, though almost universally true today, is contrary to the
direction in which web standards and technologies in general are
developing. Browsers equipped with "audio formatting" or "braille
formatting" software, which not only have access to the structural
information provided by the HTML markup but are also guided by audio and
braille style sheets, are likely to become the predominant means of
accessing the web for those who require output in these media. This does
not necessarily entail the use by people with disabilities of specialised,
custom-designed web clients. I understand for example that the Document
Object Model may provide a mechanism by which an audio or braille
formatting system can acquire high-level content such as markup and style
sheet information from a web browser.
I am firmly of the opinion that "audio formatting" (a concept developed by
T.V. Raman in his outstanding research into this subject) is far superior
to the conventional concept of a screen reader, and it is toward such a
solution that much of the WAI effort is directed, particularly in the
development of ACSS, braille style sheets and many of the features that
have been incorporated into the HTML 4.0 draft for the benefit of people
with disabilities. The ALTSRC proposal is another such mechanism, which is
primarily intended for use by web clients that are responsive to the
user's access needs and which can thus generate an appropriate audio or
braille presentation.
Some comments.
First, in the next release of CSS, CSS2, codename Frosting, ACSS
becomes part of CSS, and is no longer a separate spec (printing and
positioning too).
Second, generic access to HTML attribute values from CSS (whether it's
ALT or ALTSRC) is scheduled for CSS2, and our WAI role here is to make
sure it stays in when the dropping features season opens.
Third, I was told that ALTSRC was not a good name, it's (or something
too close like X-ALTSRC) already used by Netscape and/or AOL as a way
to indicate alternate graphic format. I propose to use instead
something like LONGDESC as the attribute name.
Another reason why ALTSRC should be regarded as an inappropriate name for
the proposed attribute is that it might be regarded by some authors as a
substitute for the ALT attribute. What I am here suggesting is that, at
least in cases where the IMG element does not appear as the content of an
anchor and a long description is deemed appropriate, it would be necessary
to include both an ALT attribute and a link to the long description. Some
people might therefore be confused by the need to include both ALT and
ALTSRC.
LONGDESC would be a better name.
