I didn't see any feedback on this comment I posted earlier so am reposting
the comment. It seems significant and worthy of some reply.
The following passage from end 2nd para, section 1.1.3, strikes me as very
peculiar:
'This specification deprecates use of the term "URN" for anything
but URIs in the "urn" scheme [RFC2141]. This specification also deprecates
the term "URL".'
Given that a URI scheme may be classified as a 'locator', a 'name' or both,
how can the term 'URL' be deprecated while maintaining currency of the the
term 'URN'? This seems to introduce an imbalance into the glossary of terms.
Surely in the contemporary view the only term of any significance is 'URI'.
IMO the term 'URN' should be deprecated wholesale along with the term 'URL'
otherwise we introduce an inequitable skewering of the URI space. The 'urn'
scheme just marks out a certain class of URIs which have a particular
semantics - i.e. 'persistence'. Nothing more.
Cheers,
Tony
Tony Hammond
Advanced Technology Group, Elsevier Ltd
32 Jamestown Road, London, NW1 7BY, UK
I reopened the issue last week and put it on the list. I have
no personal opinion on it. Your opinion contradicts that of Tim Bray,
which is why the text was changed last draft. Maybe Larry can tell
us which one is closer to the contemporary view.
....Roy
Maybe Larry can tell us which one is closer to the contemporary view.
I have to confess that the idea of deprecating "URL" annoys me;
I'm not a big fan of making a 'old way/new way' shift.
However, I thought it was "rough consensus" to go ahead
with deprecating "URL", and it does seem to hold promise
to fend off some complaints about the terms being confusing.
Probably some _other_ people will complain _even more_
that we've confused them _worse_, though; I'm not sure this
is a battle we can win.
With that said, I'll try to justify deprecating "URL"
and not "URN":
I don't think 'balance in the glossary of terms' is a goal.
Keep terms which have or can be given clear definitions,
and deprecate those that can't. Defining "URN" to mean
"a URI whose scheme is 'urn'" is pretty clear.
both,
I'm not in favor of attempting this classification, either
individually or by scheme. One person's name is another
person's locator. I think that's the main intent of
the "contemporary" revisionism: the classification doesn't
work.
Hardly. There are URIs with 'persistence' (whichever definition
you might choose) but which don't start with 'urn:', and there
are URIs that start with 'urn:' that don't have any guarantee
of 'persistence' (for most reasonable definitions of same.)
So I don't think persistence it's definitional. It's a hope
and a promise; we all hope that URNs are persistent, and we
ask those who hand them out to make the recipients promise
to make it so. We also provide no mechanism anyone can
count on for updating what is identified, thwarting
non-persistence.
Leaving the term "URN" bound to "URIs that start with 'urn:'"
means we don't have to ask people to call those things
'urn URIs'. It's just a little bit of linguistic niceness.
The complement ("all URIs that don't start with 'urn:'")
isn't as useful. Personally, I would have no trouble with
redefining the term "URL" as "a URI used as a resource locator,
such as inside the 'href' attribute of an 'a' element in HTML",
but it would lead to some additional confusions if you ever
did see a 'urn:' being used as a locator, so we might as
well let it go.
We can then all be proud that we're modern... or contemporary...
Larry
