How do we deal with sites like this?
Does anyone want to take the lead in contacting them and asking them to
produce valid XHTML. I would love to a) hear their response and b) see
the site corrected.
/bc
I'd like to contact them. It seems to me that ~98% of those validation
errors are from bare ampersands. Should be easy to correct, especially if I
also point them to Tidy.
Sue
Sue,
Thanks! Although most of the reported errors are due to the use of
ampersands in URLs, there is a mixture of other issues involved here.
This is a news site with it's own content management system and teams of
authors/editors. Getting them to change the way they do business is more
than having them run tidy over a single document.
The errors which are not due to the use of ampersands range from missing
endtags, to improper case, to missing quotes on attributes, to
improperly placed elements. (Not to mention the use of SGML comments
surrounding the inline script) In fact, this document is HTML tag soup
and not even close to XHTML at all. To get them to fix the issue in
general will take some effort on their part to change the way content is
authored and published.
Good Luck and let us know what they say.
/bc
It's not very likely that I'll get a response. I used their web form for
feedback.
Sue "please don't copy me; I subscribe to this list" Sims
"Bob Clary" bc@bclary.com
We need to demonstrate some business reasons for retrofitting compliant
XHTML in there, future development is an easier sell, but retrofitting a
site which is "working" is much harder. I'm sure they have some QA process
which checks that the site works in UA's, and it probably mostly does.
As you say later, getting the process changed is going to be difficult, I
think the fact they've moved to XHTML shows they've either been fooled by
bandwagons and just stuck some boilerplate gibberish there, or are actually
caring and trying to move to a standardised language. For me we shouln't
encourage invalid XHTML - if it's going to be invalid it's much better it's
HTML. The only chance UA's have of optimising for valid content is if they
can recognise when it's likely to come.
So, I think we should only advocate XHTML if the person is willing to go the
whole hog and actually have a publishing process which ensures validity
(something like Nick Kew's apache modules on the front) the risks of invalid
XHTML served as application/xhtml+xml make it a very hard sell - make one
mistake in your authoring and your content isn't available? So on these
large sites we need to demonstrate a CMS system that can ensure validity,
beyond transcoding modules such as Nick's, are there any CMS's that do this?
Invalid HTML is safer, there's a de-facto standard in tag-soup error
correction, so if the CMS has a bug, the site doesn't disappear until it's
fixed, so for this it's safer to advocate HTML 4.01, that also helps with
missing closing tags etc. (although not he entities problem) as they're
inserted - even if it won't be what the author intended.
Either way, I can't see how to sell any retrofitting activity can be sold to
the site, where's the business value? I think we should concentrate on the
ones we can win.
Although, it may not be completely impossible with news.com.com, as they do
support RSS, and it's valid, so some parts of their CMS is valid XML.
Jim.
hi people, i have a question, if i have
etc...
etc...
in XSL can i get all values of all items and subitems?
I use PHP as an example, but, i just can get this values using the PHP
language (making an array parser), not the XSL language.
This is possible to do with XSL?
Thanks
Le Samedi, 4 octo 2003, ? 00:32 America/Montreal, Turbano a ?crit :
yes it's possible. Use the Appropriate XPath. if you know your output
template it might be easy to ouput it in XHTML, another XML language,
RSS 1.0 feed, etc and even text only file.
See the tutorial there
Karl Dubost - http://www.la-grange.net/
Pr?s de vous, madame, oubliant les cieux,?
L'astronome ?tonn? se trouble; ???????????????
C'est dans l'?clat caressant de vos yeux,?
Qu'il avait cru trouver l'?toile double.?
