Frames are a mechnism of _displaying_ different
pieces of content in independent windows in _scrolling medium_
It is impossible to make sense of frames in other media such as print.
In other words, frames are a presentational hint, for particular media.
Therefore, stylesheets should be used for making frames.
I am not isolated in this opinion:
"...Frames aren't considered as the way to go. CSS2
and its positioning capabilities is the preferred way."
Arnaud Le Hors in
The WAI authoring guidelines should state clearly:
"Frames only via stylesheets".
HTML4.0 includes frames as a
requirement from browsers, for backward compatibility with
existing documents, not as a recommendation for authors.
(see citation above, again)
People who wrote these existing documents aren't going to read the
WAI guidelines anyway since they are doing cool things and don't
care about the purist nerds from W3C or about their own readers.
Have you ever seen a frames site written in valid HTML4.0?
I didn't. You know why? Only authors who care about portability
write valid documents. But authors who care about portability
don't write frames.
A realistic goal of WAI is to avoid new sites
written in HTML frames. For achieving this, one has
to be very clear against HTML frames.
Regards,
Nir Dagan
Assistant Professor of Economics
Universitat Pompeu Fabra
Barcelona (Spain)
Website: http://www.econ.upf.es/%7Edagan/
Unfortunately, it is not possible to duplicate frame semantics
with CSS2 and HTML 4 alone. Special values of
the HTML 4 "target" attribute (see [1], section 6.16)
allow authors to specify the window in which a document is meant
to appear. While CSS2 positioning allows authors to create
frame-like appearance within a single window, CSS2 does not
allow authors to refer to other windows.
This is one reason why frames weren't "more deprecated" in HTML 4.0;
the target window behavior could not be reproduced in CSS.
- Ian
Ian Jacobs (jacobs@w3.org)

In other words, frames are a presentational hint, for particular media.
Therefore, stylesheets should be used for making frames.
While I cannot stand most framed pages, I understand why the functionality
is there. For example, Hotmail.com allows you to read mail, and if the mail
has a link to another page, choosing the link just modifies the current
page. The Hotmail.com navigation bar at the top stays the same, allowing
you to return quickly to the original mail message if you surfed your way
through to several pages.
This is not something that can be accomplished through CSS positioning.
Charles Oppermann
Program Manager, Active Accessibility, Microsoft Corporation
"A computer on every desk and in every home, usable by everyone!"
Most of the uses of frames may be done
with CSS2 and the authoring guidelines should
point that out.
Example (accounts for 95% of current frames use):
Frames are used to create a navigation bar which is fixed on the
user's viewport, and another frame is used for "content" which may be
replaced by following links on the navigation bar.
This can be done with CSS2 by writing the navigaton bar in all
pages (as one does in a site without frames) and position the
navigation bar fixed with respect to the viewport using CSS2.
CSS2 has the following advantages:
The problem of addressing a position of
frames with a URL disappears, the concept of the user's current
location is well defined, the confusion of what is the user's
history disappears.
Moreover, with HTML frames the navigation bar has an active link
to the content page that the user is reading. This reduces user's
orientation. With CSS2 we are like in normal pages where the
author can disactivate the "self link".
So with CSS2, the good thing about frames stays: keeping the
navigation bar fixed relative to the viewport. But all the
usability and orientation problems of HTML frames go away.
The authoring guidelines may have an appendix (like they have
for graphical bullets in lists) concerning CSS2 frames.
I have also seen frames site that the fixed frame is just a
decorative margin (not even a message conveying banner),
this accounts for 4% of frame sites), this can be done with
fixed position background images. This CSS feature is
already supported by some browsers.
It seems to me more useful to recommend CSS rather than
recommending:
"use the title attribute to describe the function of the frame:
FRAME src="foo.html" title="no function, cool margin
that can be done with CSS" "
Regards,
Nir Dagan.
