1. Clearly state in the abstract the scope how built-in accessibility and
compatibility with assistive technologies is the basis for improved
accessibility:
2. I am not sure what a "series of strokes" means for rendering text in
Guideline 1 introduction
3. Guideline 2 Introduction: Change "Web content providers" to
authors. Seems clear to me.
4. Checkpoint 2.1, what about META comments and other information in the
HEAD block, is that part of the DOM? Is there anything in XML like the Head
block that contains META information?
5. Checkpoint 2.3. In the note the third example need some more words, like
"the user to"
6. Guideline 7 Introduction, 1st para, 2nd sentence: Use "efficiently"
instead of "quickly"
7. Guideline 7 Introduction, 3rd para: add a reference to visual
impairments need for direct access also
8. Guideline 8 Introduction: Add to list scollbars for position in a
document, relationships among elements like tables
9. Guideline 11 Introduction: Change "mouse emulation key strokes" to
"mouse emulation through key strokes"
10. Conformance section 3.7: Do we need to specify what level of WCAG the
conformance claim must satisfy. I suggest double-A, like UAAG.
Jon Gunderson, Ph.D., ATP
Coordinator of Assistive Communication and Information Technology
Division of Rehabilitation - Education Services
MC-574
College of Applied Life Studies
University of Illinois at Urbana/Champaign
1207 S. Oak Street, Champaign, IL 61820
Voice: (217) 244-5870
E-mail: jongund@uiuc.edu
WWW: http://www.staff.uiuc.edu/~jongund
WWW: http://www.w3.org/wai/ua
Jon commented:
"10. Conformance section 3.7: Do we need to specify what level of WCAG the
conformance claim must satisfy. I suggest double-A, like UAAG."
My comment:
At first, this seemed very appropriate. However, I am thinking about that
single-A WCAG 1.0 might be appropriate. I suppose that since WCAG measures
accessibility in units of "pages" (among other units) so that the whole page
would need to conform. I guess that I would dislike restricting the
publishing of claims only to sites that rated double-A and higher.
4. Checkpoint 2.1, what about META comments and other information in the
HEAD block, is that part of the DOM?
CMN Yes.
JRG
Is there anything in XML like the Head block that contains META
information?
CMN
XML is a language for writing languages in. XML doesn't itself define a HEAD
element. But many languages writtenn in XML (e.g. XHTML - which is almost
exactly the same as HTML 4.0, SVG) do have such an element, or at least a
paralell mechanism. XML that includes the use of the namespaces specification
allows multiple kinds of XML to be mixed together, and one of the commonest
uses of this in existing implementation is for RDF metadata. (Amaya also uses
it to mix graphics, math and XHTML together)
JRG
10. Conformance section 3.7: Do we need to specify what level of WCAG the
conformance claim must satisfy. I suggest double-A, like UAAG.
CMN Yes
HB: Much web content is now generated by database extraction. Authors may
do the original design, including frames where the dynamic content is
deposited. Some content, such as images, from database may fail
accessibility checks. These may come from diverse sources without the
expected alternative descriptions included.
HB: XML is a language for describing applications. It has nothing
inherent that helps or hinders accessibility or inclusion or omission
of metainformation. An XML application needs to be evaluated for its
provision of accessibility information. The variety possible among XML
applications means that any guidelines we produce for user agents may
be at best of general interest to the designers of those applications.
HB: We have been silent about the new XML application designer including
what is in the head section of HTML or XHTML to contain any metainformation.
HB: HTML or XML !--comments -- have no syntactic meaning. The meta
element type is repeatable within the head section of HTML or XHTML
documents. Interspersed between element types can be comments.
HB: Note that most any attribute="value" pair in any starttag of a document
tagged to any application of XML is metainformation about that element
type in which it occur.
HB: XML applications can contain but certainly needn't have analogs of the
HTML META information. In some cases, such as Dublin Core, the 15 kinds of metadata each have element types so named. Including Dublin Core within
HTML uses the repeated META element with attribute pairs:
where the values for name are the 15 kinds of Dublin Core.
Regards/Harvey Bingham
