I have received an assignment about research on document object model. I
haven't still found answers to the following questions:
1) Where is DOM used now, and does it have a future?
2) Who owns DOM and what does it cost?
3) Why should a commercial organization get interested in this technology?
I would appreciate if you reply to me at your earliest possible as my
assignment due date is getting closer.
Regards,
Athar
MSN Photos is the easiest way to share and print your photos:
Hi,
First take a look at w3.org then I would suggest you do searches on
google. You will find a large amount of information.
Gareth
Gareth Reakes, Head of Product Development
DecisionSoft Ltd. http://www.decisionsoft.com
Office: +44 (0) 1865 203192
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA1
DOM is used extensively on the web, and it most certainly does have a
future!
Noone owns DOM, as it is not a product. As Gareth said, some searches
on Google and a look at w3c.org will answer all your questions.
If they are developing websites I would imagine they are already
interested, otherwise I feel that they would have very little
interest in it.
Regards,
Alex
Alex Horstmann
Web Designer
DDSI
ahorstmann@ddsi.ie
www.ddsi.ie | wap.ddsi.ie
"What we've got here is failure to communicate"
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: PGP 7.0.4
iQA/AwUBPYsQfDMCWgF2NLLkEQLWFQCgiFNjSQ20iG19DIWNtZdA4/wWfzQAn3AV
Xfnps93bSmzrlElb7mwsUQ2Z
=/qv+
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
Not just on the web, pretty much anything XML related is likely to use
the DOM at some point. It's pretty much everywhere you look. It'd be
quite boring if it were limited to website development, but thankfully
it's not and is used all over the place. In fact, most commercial
entities that have anything to do with XML, even remotely, is almost
certainly using the DOM somewhere.
Robin Berjon robin.berjon@expway.fr
Research Engineer, Expway
7FC0 6F5F D864 EFB8 08CE 8E74 58E6 D5DB 4889 2488
Start with http://www.w3.org/DOM; lots of documentation there about what
the DOM is, why it is, where it's used. You could try a websearch, though
I expect you'll have trouble cutting it down to a useful size.
(The goal of the assignment is to teach you how to research source
materials...)
Joe Kesselman / IBM Research
