Hello,
We've modified the table sent last week to reflect the feedback we received
from the conference call last Wednesday. We would like to discuss this
latest draft in the conference call tomorow.
You will find the table at http://trace.ie.wisc.edu/wai/guidelines.htm and
the linear version at http://trace.ie.wisc.edu/wai/guidelinestxt.htm
Note that this is a draft, but we hope it shows the direction we are
heading. Primarily we've:
1. started including rationale or failure modes for each guideline
2. separated guidelines from techniques. The techniques are listed with a
key phrase in the current document. We expect these to become links to a
discussion and example of the technique in a separate document. We quickly
mocked up a place-holder..please use your imagination. smile
3. grouped techniques into guidelines and grouped some of the guidelines
to decrease the number of single recommendations from 57 to 24
Also, please ignore any ugly, or non-HTML4.0 HTML as we were using a GUI
editor to get this up and out ASAP. It is a *rough* draft in many ways,
i.e. the editor doesn't completely separate presentation from structure and
we're still working on content. We'll clean it up in future releases.
We look forward to more good feedback tomorrow during the call or if you
can't make the call we hope to see responses on the list.
Until then,
The Editors
I, for one, am very impressed with the revised Guideline Grouping Table. I
think you and Gregg have done a great job of synthesizing the comments of many
people and reducing the previously overwhelming and complicated presentations
to a useful tool.
I think the table can be easily translated into both Web-based and printable
products that will meet the needs of most (if not all) potential users that
the
group has identified.
I am sure that some well focused discussions can resolve the challenges of
orphaned or contentious guidelines and techniques.
Regards,
Chuck Letourneau
Page Author Guidelines Working Group
cpl@starlingweb.com
(613) 820-2272
Yes, I too would like to offer my complements to the cooks.
Josh Krieger
CAST
