Hi,
I have a suggestion which might be helpful for writing the guidelines.
It is often useful to write guidelines not so much from the perspective of
the writer but from the perspective of the reader. This approach can often
make it easier for the reader to understand. Since we want browser
companies to understand the guidelines and agree to implement them, we need
to think about how the browser company's might look at things.
Also, the easier it looks to do, the more likely browser developers
will do the needed work.
My suspicion is that many of the browsers are written using object-oriented
technology. The object-oriented technology has many advantages, but one
challenge is that good object-oriented programmers need to think
fairly abstractly about the issues, much more abstractly than programmers
writing in C, etc.
The guidelines reference things like headers, links, forms. One suggestion
is to come up with an abstract class name for them. The term 'elements' could
be used, but I think a term which somehow conveys the navigation aspect might
be very helpful. (Many elements in HTML are not related to navigation.)
My suggestion is the term 'landmark elements' or just 'landmarks' for short.
(Actually, it might be useful to drop the 'elements' part in case there
might be navigation points which don't exactly correspond to HTML elements.)
If the abtract class is "landmarks", then various sub-classes can be:
links
headers
paragraphs
begin form
end form
input fields
begin list
end list
list item
begin table
end table
table cell
The various types of landmarks actually have similarities in navigation.
Explicit navigation
e.g. go to link numbered 5
Sequence navigation
e.g. go to next/previous header
Navigation via list of landarks
e.g. go to zip code field in form
A few of the landmarks have actions associated with them. The landmark
class structure could look like:
landmarks
headers
paragraphs
begin form
end form
begin list
end list
list item
begin table
end table
table cell
action landmarks
links
input fields
The action landmarks could be triggered by explicit specification
or by having the landmark highlighted in some way.
Does this class structure make sense?
Scott
I think we want to write the guidelines so they are easy to understand by
developers. Could browser developers respond to Scotts thoughts on the
format of the guidelines?
Jon
could
short.
Jon Gunderson, Ph.D., ATP
Coordinator of Assistive Communication and Information Technology
Division of Rehabilitation - Education Services
University of Illinois at Urbana/Champaign
1207 S. Oak Street
Champaign, IL 61820
Voice: 217-244-5870
E-mail: jongund@uiuc.edu
WWW:http://www.staff.uiuc.edu/~jongund
We really want to focus on the user, not on the implementation
as that quickly makes a bad UI. We also want things as practical
as possible. We have already implemented a keyboard interface
that allows jumps between elements of various types. We try
to focus on what the user needs. Then we think about how to
implement it.
might
Regards/Ciao/K?r kvedja/Vennlig hilsen/...
Jon S. von Tetzchner
Opera Software
Jon@operasoftware.com
Opera - The browser that is made for you.
Hi,
I agree that the focus should be on the user needs. However,
I believe that guidelines can be written in such a way that the needs
of the user can be expressed in ways that are more easily understood
by programmers. This doesn't necessarily mean that all the implementation
issues need to be specified.
It is important to remember that we do not have automatic agreement
of browser developers to implement the guidelines. It is still a "selling"
job to browser companies and programmers. If they think it looks
easy to do and will take less effort than they expect, they are more
likely to implement them.
Scott
