[**** Insert text here ****]
News Bulletin From The Worldmachine TECHWIRE Service
WAI (Web Application Interface), is a new technology packaged in the most
recent versions of the Netscape Enterprise and Fast Track Web Servers.
It allows web developers to creat CORBA based server-side applications in
Java, C, or C++. Designed as a fast, robust, and scalable replacement
for CGI (Common Gateway Interface) programs, WAI could quite possibly
become the new standard for creating server side web applications.
For additional info, check out the URL below:
The _Worldmachine TECHWIRE_ is an electronic bulletin system for the
distribution of news concerning information technology. Please visit the
TECHWIRE website at: http://www.worldmachine.com/techwire
NOTE: To unsubscribe from the Worldmachine TECHWIRE, send an email to
TECHWIRE-REQUEST@worldmachine.com with "unsubscribe" as the subject. Please
send all suggestions for new bulletins to TECHWIRE-OWNER@worldmachine.com .
I've sent an inquiry to Netscape PR. It looks like it hasn't been
officially announced. PR Newswire and Business Wire don't have stories-
only NewsBytes. Is this a forseeable trademark problem?
B.K. DeLong 360 Huntington Ave.
Director Suite 140SC-305
New England Chapter Boston, MA 02115
National Association (617) 247-3753
of Webmasters
bkdelong@naw.org
NAW is the North American "chapter"
of the World Organization of Webmasters
I contacted Netscape PR yesterday and they haven't a clue what WAI is. I'm
hoping she will finaly figure out and get back to me. The story must have
come from someone speaking with a develoer of NS working group.
More soon.
B.K. DeLong 360 Huntington Ave.
Director Suite 140SC-305
New England Chapter Boston, MA 02115
National Association (617) 247-3753
of Webmasters
bkdelong@naw.org
NAW is the North American "chapter"
of the World Organization of Webmasters
I remember W3C talking to Netscape about this one about a year ago (so
it's not new).
First, Netscape is using it in a completely different way, it's really
an innocent collision of acronyms.
I kind of remember an informal agreement to the effect that Netscape
will not assert IPR or claim trademark etc., as long as W3C doesn't
deny Netscape's right to use the WAI acronym for their Web Application
Interface (WAI) program.
Note that WAI is on the list of Trademarks owned by W3C listed at
