Is there any consensus on the following, or has anyone had experience or
done usability studies to determine which is better for accessible web
design:
For a site that has a standard set of links on every page (e.g. Home |
Products | Employment | Contacts), is it better for accessibility to
have those linkes at the top of every page or at the bottom?
Does the answer change if seeing/hearing the bottom of the page will
occasionally require scrolling the page? In other words, the user may
get used to browsing the site without needing to scroll and then
unknowingly come to a page where either the standard links or the
non-standard links are not visible/screen-readable without scrolling.
Thanks,
-- Paul
PW WebSpeak 1.4.3 will read through to the bottom of the page regardless of
the length on a graphical browser. I am interested to hear the opinions of
others about the placement of navigation bars at the top or the bottom.
-Jamie Fox
From: Paul Adelson[SMTP:paul.adelson@citicorp.com]
Subject: Placing generic navigation links
Is there any consensus on the following, or has anyone had experience or
done usability studies to determine which is better for accessible web
design:
For a site that has a standard set of links on every page (e.g. Home |
Products | Employment | Contacts), is it better for accessibility to
have those linkes at the top of every page or at the bottom?
Does the answer change if seeing/hearing the bottom of the page will
occasionally require scrolling the page? In other words, the user may
get used to browsing the site without needing to scroll and then
unknowingly come to a page where either the standard links or the
non-standard links are not visible/screen-readable without scrolling.
Thanks,
-- Paul
to follow up on what Paul Adelson said:
This seems to be an incompletely solved problem. There are some
things that you can get consensus on as a matter of fact and they
do not indicate a single best practice (in the current
technology) that is best for all.
Numerous pro-forma links that you have to step through to get to
the meat of the page are a serious bummer, from what the speech
users I hear from say. The top margin of the visual frame is a
natural place for these things to be in a visual context.
Because these entries function as advertising as well as
navigation opportunities in the graphical context, moving them to
the foot and off the initial screenful is, in the GUI context, a
serious demotion.
You will notice that the page at http://www.w3.org/WAI/PF/ has
fewer top links than many W3C group home pages. The Kent State
site is doing a good thing in moving these context links from the
head of the graphical page to the foot of the alternate page.
But we don't all have the scripts to do it twice.
One early idea was to put context links invisibly as LINK
elements, but this form has lost out in practice to the plain
visible anchor.
So far as I know, we are still looking to evolve better
conditional-placement or alternate-flow capability so that a
common source of content can be more multimode in this regard.
Al
The way we have implemented support for client side image maps in webspeak
offers one approach to dealing with links at the top and bottom of the page:
we collapse the links of the image map into a single selection, announced as
"Image Map Menu - Navigation Bar" (or whatever the audio style sheet and Alt
text says). The user can then either select the menu to listen to it, or
proceed on with reading the page.
This works especially well if the page author supplies a title and alt text
for the image map.
Mark
Jamie::
I prefer the links at the bottom of the page for many reasons, not the
least of which is that I'm usually at the bottom of the page when I decide
I want to leave it and go somewhere else - after I've read what is there on
the page. Several screen readers read through a page whether or not it is
all on the screen, and I like the fact that in MSIE WinVision automatically
reads a full page on its own from top to bottom without keystrokes so that
I wouldn't have to do anything until the bottom of the screen if that was
where the menu was located.
K7
Hello!
I just asked that question to a visually impair co-workers. His opinion
is that it's better in the bottom. His reason is that if you put it on the
top you'll have to read them on braille terminal or hear them in
systhesis before getting to the matter of the page. Some pages may
have 5 or 10 of that links and thus it takes some time. In bottom, you
could browse to it if needed and not be bothered when you don't
want to!
Regards
Dominic Labb?
Dominicl@visuaide.com
Victor's team (http://www.visuaide.com/victor.en.html)
VisuAide
Date forwarded: Wed, 15 Jul 1998 16:03:49 -0400 (EDT)
Date sent: Wed, 15 Jul 1998 15:02:28 -0500
From: Paul Adelson paul.adelson@citicorp.com
Subject: Placing generic navigation links
Forwarded by: w3c-wai-ig@w3.org
yes, you don't turn the page till you've reached the end usually perhaps,
and neither do I. may I make a suggestion? how about a link to a nav
page at the top and the links from it on the bottom?
this doesn't completely solve the whole issue, but it may be a start.
Hands-On-Technolog(eye)s
touching the internet
voice: 1-(301) 949-7599
poehlman@clark.net
ftp://ftp.clark.net/pub/poehlman
Dear, erudite and undoubtedly Guru class Al.
What on earth does that all mean?? Seriously, to a simple web designer who
wants to get it right? Are the links better on the top or bottom of the
page? Which? Top or bottom? I am not a stupid woman, in fact I am quite
bright and certainly well educated. Nor am a technically incompetent. I
still do not understand a single word in your reply, and I have a sinking
feeling it contained important information.
I have the same problem with the W3C guidelines on accessibility. They keep
saying things like -
"don't do A, but if you have to then do B as well. Unless of course you
don't really want to, in which case C is fine. There is always D too, of
course, unless you have used X anywhere on your site in which case...."
aargh!
Web site design is not an exact science, but surely the capabilities of a
blind reader are quantifiable, measurable - real. I painstakingly followed
all the compulsory rules, and as many recommended ones as I could. I then
found, when I ask for feedback here in this forum, that the blind visitors
to the site can all see the original framed, Javascripted, graphic version
anyway, apart from a couple of simple tweaks. (I promise I will post all the
feedback somewhere for everybody to see , as soon as I get permission from
my advisors). And they liked it just fine - I had a comment from one lady
that it felt a bit patronising to have a separate copy of the site "for the
poor blind people". She had a point too!
I think there should be TWO sets of W3C guidelines. Ones for blind readers,
and one for "every single browser in the known Universe". And the first set
should be carefully measured, tested by the RNIB or a similar organisation
and then spelled out in Plain English. The issue of accessibility by all
browsers is a separate one from accessibility by the blind. One concerns
making the Internet accessible to all software manufacturers, AOL and
anybody who detests frames. The other concerns making the Internet fair to
everyone, whether they can see or not.
Sorry Al, this is not a dig at you personally, just a vent at the difficulty
involved in getting an answer to a simple question - can a blind person see
and enjoy my web site? In the end, it was other web designers, and blind
readers themselves, who answered the question. Not the W3C site.
if you want accessibility on the Internet - then make the rules and
guidelines accessible.
(er..if you are in charge that is. If not - then tell the bloke who is!!)
"alternate-flow capability"....nope. still don't get it...
Sue
(not putting my sig as this is a personal posting!)
It means that we would like to be able to write a page, for example with
a nvigation paragraph. We would then like to be able to say "if this page
is being displayed on a screen, put the navigation paragraph at the top
and bottom. If it is being read out loud, just read it out at the end. If
it is being broken into small flip cards, put it on each card. (Or
something like that) The trouble is we can't do that yet. But we're
working on it.
Charles
Writing guidelines is difficult. Where people are going to use them
often, in many contexts, it is important to get them right. The trouble
is that the first pass at this is usually very dense reading. Not
impossible, but very hard. Read a carefully-framed law, for example.
Until the guidelines are really settled, it is hard to cut them into
digestible chunks. But then, who learns HTML 4.0 by reading the
Specifications of the language (other than me and a few other odd people)
and who does it by reading a book, which might be 5 times as long, not
quite as perfectly correct, but a million times more comprehensible?
Just some thoughts.
Here's my two cents on this.
This seems more of a style issue than an accessibility issue. You are
going to get different answers from blind users because different screen
readers handle it differently. Some parse the document by page or
screen and others do not. Most screen reader/browser combinations let
you navigate the text one way and through links another way. So it
depends on what the user is doing-- reading text or hunting for links.
If they are navigating links, they are usually not aware of the
surrounding text so whether the navigation links are at the top or at
the bottom is irrelavant. If they are reading text and encounter a
bunch of navigation links, their reaction may be partially affected by
the verbosity of the screen reader which will determine how quickly they
can get through them. Personally, I like navigation links at the very
top or very bottom of the document and not on every page, but as long as
they are all on a single line or 2 I don't really care because I can
just ARROW down to go past them.
Joe Roeder
Access Technology Specialist
National Industries for the Blind
E-mail: jroeder@nib.org
Voice: (703) 578-6524
From: Al Gilman[SMTP:asgilman@access.digex.net]
Sent: Wednesday, July 15, 1998 1:51 PM
Subject: Re: Placing generic navigation links
In my opinion, general navigational links at the top of each web page of
a site have become one of the most significant usability barriers to
browsing the web. I have not found any reliable technique with a screen
reader to skip such links and get to the unique content of a page. Thus
tedious and time-consuming navigation past those links is necessary to
determine whether a page is of particular interest to me.
I prefer that pages other than those intended as a table of contents do
not include general site-navigation links. If enough sighted users
depend on such links for their usability, however, I prefer that the
links be placed either at the bottom of the page or in a separate frame.
The best compromise I've encountered, however, is on the web site of the
American Council of the Blind (http://www.acb.org). Site navigation
links are at the top of each page, but the very first link allows one to
skip such links and go to the unique content of the page. I suggest
this approach as a W3C accessibility/usability guideline.
Regards,
Jamal
On 1998-07-15 paul.adelson@citicorp.com said:
NIs there any consensus on the following, or has anyone had
Nexperience or done usability studies to determine which is better
Nfor accessible web design:
NFor a site that has a standard set of links on every page (e.g.
NHome | Products | Employment | Contacts), is it better for
Naccessibility to have those linkes at the top of every page or at
Nthe bottom?
NDoes the answer change if seeing/hearing the bottom of the page will
Noccasionally require scrolling the page? In other words, the user
Nmay get used to browsing the site without needing to scroll and then
Nunknowingly come to a page where either the standard links or the
Nnon-standard links are not visible/screen-readable without
Nscrolling.
NThanks,
N-- Paul
Net-Tamer V 1.11 - Registered
Just my 2 cents on this..... small sites may be able to live with this
kind of guideline, but, as a person working on several large sites, I
can tell you this is not really very feasible. A site with 10 major
departments will most likely have 5 or 10 subsections, if you bypass the
navigation, you will never experience anything past the first few pages.
Some of us go out of our way to incorporate the navigation into the
overall look and feel of a site, making graphics multipurpose. Kind of
like having a web site and not submitting it to the engines, no one
knows where it is, same concept, you have a beautiful site no one can
navigate.
Navigational aides have traditionally been placed at the bottom of each
page...was there something wrong with that method? I thought it worked
real well in Lynx
Eileen
Eileen Bonfiglio
Internet Presence Specialist
Program Manager PuterGirl, Inc.
City Of Pembroke Pines Internet Presence Provider
10100 Pines Blvd. 8801 W. Atlantic Blvd #771762
Pembroke Pines, FL Coral Springs, FL
PinesNet@putergirl.com http://www.putergirl.com
Member, HTML Writers Guild Member, Association of Internet
Professionals
"...and I think to myself, what a wonderful world!"
Thank you, Sue.
A couple of weeks ago, I sent much the same letter to the w3c-wai group,
and received a pleasant offer of help, and a couple of pleas for "patience
with the process" that kind of missed the point.
Next week, I'll be leading a workshop on Web accessibility for folks at my
campus, and I've been busy translating some basic tips into a few hundred
words of English. I hope, and think, I'm getting it right.
Good luck.
- tom mcCain
tmccain@butler.edu
Hello Tom
er.. Tom
I don't suppose I could have a copy could I? They sound wonderful! I have
posted the feedback I got at:
Incidentally, I heard from Charles McCathieNevile on the vexed and complex
question of links on the top or bottom (although Al, the original poster,
appears to have taken umbrage and has not responded.)
Charles showed that it is possible to be a Web expert and yet still speak
clearly. His mail said simply:
"Dear Sue, Put 'em on the bottom. regards Charles"
So I did!
Sue
Hang on. The way I read it, Jamal was saying:
If you can live without the links on every page, do so.
I take it you object to this. I certainly think it can only work on a
tiny site, although I see it on a lot of badly designed larger ones.
Then he said:
If not, put them at the bottom.
I think he is quite right here. Putting them anywhere else can cause
useability problems. The most common technique currently is a table, using
the left-hand column for links.
As Nir pointed out, this makes life INCREDIBLY difficult for people
relying on Screen readers, although it works fnie for people using
non-table capable browsers, or full graphic browsers.
Jamal half-covered this by saying
If the links aren't at the bottom, provide a link through them to the
content.
This is no more difficult than providing a standard link to 'top of the
page', and certainly entirely scaleable. However it does not solve the
screen reader problem. The ways of doing that are to use frames/seperate
windows, which provides the same look and feel without making life
difficult for the users, but means that you still need to provide the
links at the bottom of the page.
In short, the answer is to put them at the bottom. This is said in the
same way as 'number your pages consecutively'. There is nothing to stop
your page numbers (in a print book) going 4 7 2 6 6a 88 11 45 32 7b 1,
but it make life difficult for the people who are using the product, and
that reflects badly on the producers.
Charles McCathieNevile
Sue, I looked at the feedback page you posted.
For this little black duck the jury is well and truly settled on D-links.
Use 'em.
The longer explanation:
The D-link satisfies the problem that LONGDESC, while a fine idea, doesn't
work in any browser. By the time it will work, people will be able to use
(and should be using) OBJECT to include their non-text objects anyway,
which will give them much greater possibilities to provide information.
In the meantime, IF YOUR IMAGES (scripts, applets, etc) CONVEY IMPORTANT
INFORMATION, USE A D-LINK. (It's a big IF. Nobody else can decide how to
answer that for you - it's part of your own skills)
If you don't want to clutter up your site with little D's, try the following:
img src="images/charles2.gif" TITLE="charles" ALT="Charles"
LONGDESC="images/charles2.html" ALIGN="LEFT" A
HREF="images/charles2.html" TITLE="Description of Charles2.gif" IMG
SRC="images/dot.gif" ALT="D-link" TITLE="link to description of
Charles2.gif (previous picture)" /A
which is taken from my personal page at http://www.srl.rmit.edu.au/charles
The basic idea is to use a single white dot, with the ALT text making it
clear that this is a D-link. (Unfortunately the big browsers are making
ALT text harder to find. But there are lots of good browsers out there)
Tom,
Are you willing to post those hundred words on this site? I'm sure many of us
would be interested to see what you've come up with.
-- Paul
... Unfortunately the big browsers are making ALT text harder to find.
Interesting. In what way are the big browsers making ALT text harder to find?
-- Paul
Anyone care to take a look at my idea? It's at my own homepage,
"correctly" in browsers (or not working at all). Which means you
can use MSIE 4 to get the full effect, Lynx to get the "degrade
gracefully" effect (d-links on), and if you're using Netscape 4,
you're screwed because they got stylesheets dead wrong.
--Kynn
(The idea behind it is explained at http://www.idyllmtn.com/~kynn/access/)
This works pretty well if you have a stylesheets browser. It also works
well on a browser which uses neither stylesheets nor images. If it were
used on a stylesheets enabled version of Lynx, then there would be no
dlinks, unless the user had a stylesheet to override this.
It also provides the little [d] links on IE2, Netscape 3 (For my version
of communicator it worked - Netscape is unpredictable about stylesheets)
and other graphics-based, non stylesheet-enabled browsers. For me this
ain't a problem, but I would be hesitant about trying to sell it...
Another possiblity raised before is to use A HREF="blah.htm"
REL="DLINK" . This is analagous to the REL attribute for LINK, but also
relies on browsers understanding the particular REL - it is good for the
future but doesn't solve the problem for the past.
My preferred solution for the future is to depreacate the IMG element and
use OBJECT, which allows for full-blown HTML content, like the following:
A HREF="some.mov" See the movie
A HREF="dsome.htm" TITLE="D-Link for some.mov and some.jpg" IMG
SRC="dot.gif"
ALT="D-link" /A
!-- OBJECT does not have facility for a longdesc as such. Where the
object is complex, or there is a cascade of OBJECTS it would be nice to
have all the options. --
(which allows for all browsers) or
this could be a lovely picture of me A HREF="dsome.htm"
TITLE="D-link" (description available) /A
(Which only allows for HTML 4 capable browsers. MSIE 4 does a goodly bit
of this, Netscape 4 does a little bit)
Charles McCN
On Mon, 20 Jul 1998, Kynn Bartlett
There's a clean, generic way to make links available at the top of the page
while allowing a surfer to skip them easily. Unfortunately, it doesn't
work for all browser and screen reader combinations. It works for
pwwebspeak and the combination of lynx and any screen reader. I don't know
what other combinations it works for.
The method is to simply use an image map and include ALT text for each AREA
in the image map, as recommended in the WAI Page Author Guidelines
(reference 1 below).
You give the image of the image map a title like e.g.
ALT="Site Navigation Menu."
And give ALT text for each AREA, e.g. "Home", "Search", etc.
In lynx, the ALT text for the image, viz. "Site Navigation Menu" becomes a
selectable link. If you don't select it you are not bothered with the menu
items. On the other hand, if you do select it (e.g. by pressing it's
number if numbers are on) you get a menu composed of the ALT texts that
were inserted for the AREA tags.
So this way if you come to the page you are alerted that there is a nav bar
and can choose to read it or skip it at will.
But, since not all combinations of browser and screen readers support this
you still need to put the text equivalents of the image links at the bottom.
So this is a case where an image map actually helps a blind surfer.
Ironically, it it is inconvenience to a sighted surfer who has images off,
at least with current browsers, because the sighted surfer doesn't see the
ALT text for the AREAs, and has to go to the bottom of the page where the
text links are.
Len
Leonard Kasday
kasday@acm.org
reference 1
