EOWG:
[Thread starter]
One of our "deliverables" is to develop a comprehensive list of events
which we need to have a Web accessibility presence at.
List would include Web/Internet events, disability community, research
community, government, etc.
I think we should annotate the list with at minimum:
- key audiences attending
- submission dates for calls for papers, etc
- is someone already covering the event or do we need to arrange coverage
- other?
Please look at this page for starters:
www.interport.net/~kitch
...and here is a note from Kitch about her page:
"Don't forget to look at the section called "Past 1998 Conferences".
Instead of removing conferences that have already taken place, I decided to
start archiving so we know where to submit next year."
This isn't a comprehensive list, and there are many more out there. We can
bounce it out to the WAI IG for additional comment once we get it more
developed, but this is for starters.
Can you please:
- reply to this thread with pointers to additional lists?
- comment on how we should best organize this to help plan coverage?
Regards,
Judy
Judy Brewer jbrewer@w3.org 617-258-9741
Director, Web Accessibility Initiative International Program Office
World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)
MIT/LCS Room NE43-355
545 Technology Square, Cambridge MA 02139 USA
cpl:: The Assistive Devices Industry Association of Canada maintains a very
large list of conferences in the field of assistive technology and disability
issues.? The URL is:
http://www.starlingweb.com/adp/as00015e.htm http://www.starlingweb.com/adp
/as00015e.htm
Starling Access Services
"Access A World Of Possibility"
e-mail: info@starlingweb.com
URL: http://www.starlingweb.com
I gathered a bunch of pointers while looking for European specific
events (without much success may I say, most of it in US centric).
I think we need to cover both
- the "specialized" conf, like CSUN, TIDE, or even WWW conf, whose
audience are the assistive technology and disability geeks, and
where we can assume people are aware of the issues and just need to
be kept up-to-date with recent WAI development.
- the "generic" conference, like Networld+Interop, Seybold, CeBit,
for Web designer, ISP, etc, where people really need to be presented
with the situation as if it was new to them.
The people covering the first set of events need to be as close as
possible to the WAI project (ideally W3C staff). The second set can be
done by different speakers, based on more stable materials.
Event of particular importance are I think things like (as seen on Yahoo)
NetMedia 98 - an annual Internet conference which aims to bring
journalists up-to-date on developments in digital media technologies
Because it has the potential of dominoing to the entire community of
Internet users.
Also of importance are the specialized Mobile Computing/PDA conf,
which could draw in more support from people that otherwise might not
see the relation between Web accessibility and them.
Great! thanks Chuck.
- Judy
Judy Brewer jbrewer@w3.org 617-258-9741
Director, Web Accessibility Initiative International Program Office
World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)
MIT/LCS Room NE43-355
545 Technology Square, Cambridge MA 02139 USA
