Accidentally caught by the spam filter. I've added Frank's email to the
accept2 list.
- Jim
Hi,
I've read over the specifications and want to know if I'm missing something
or if you considered a capability. For properties in a schema that have
large amounts of data, does WebDAV specify a means to retrieve only portions
of that data? For example, if you have a document object that has only a
text property containing all the document data, you may only want the first
100K of a 10 megabyte document. For email the POP and IMAP protocols allow
subsets of the message data to be retrieved ( POP TOP command for
instance ). Have you thought of allowing retrieval of only a subset of
property data, and if you have could you point me to the reference that
shows how?
Thanks,
Frank Judge
Palm Inc.
frank.judge@corp.palm.com
Alas, WebDAV does not allow for retrieval of part of a property. It
would be very interesting and useful for large structured properties, as
you've said. Probably would have to support
XPath...http://www.w3c.org/TR/xpath
In retrospect, this is a different question...HTTP/1.1 currently
supports the "Range" header for GET requests that would satisfy your
requirement to download parts of document data.
See *ftp://ftp.isi.edu/in-notes/rfc2616.txt*
Chris,
Thanks for the heads up. The only problems I see with this are:
- its optional to support byte ranges in HTTP 1.1
- if I'm understanding this right, because this is at the HTTP level, the entity body will basically be truncated. This would mean only a partial XML document would be downloaded, and other properties coming after the lengthy data may be missing, as well as the terminating XML tags. Would this be your understanding also, or would you expect the WebDAV server implementation to respect the RANGE header, and only return the number of bytes for the large PROPERTY instead of the entire HTTP entity body?
- I can't find a server that supports the "Range: bytes=" header. At least Microsoft's IIS server for Exchange 2003 does not.
Any idea if this has come up for discussion in the WebDAV specs prior, or if it could be proposed? Basically something like specifying a byte RANGE when asking for a specific property would do the trick. I'll look at the XPATH reference you previously forwarded.
Thanks for you help,
Frank
In retrospect, this is a different question...HTTP/1.1 currently
supports the "Range" header for GET requests that would satisfy your
requirement to download parts of document data.
See *ftp://ftp.isi.edu/in-notes/rfc2616.txt*
