I think it might be useful to identify the potentials uses to which the
specifications developed by this group could be put as, it will help us
identify requirements,and start of by suggesting a couple - I am sure there
are others ...
PUBLIC CHOREOGRAPHY DEFINITION
This use of a choreography definition would allow standards groups to define
"Public Choreographies", for example RoesttaNet to define their PIPs, or,
organizations like UN/CEFACT to define standard public choreographies for
international trade.
The main benefit of standard choreographies would be that software vendors
could build solutions that could then be used directly for B2B with less
adaptation. As a result the cost of doing B2B would go down significantly.
However if you follow this through this requirement through, it leads to a
couple of additional requirements on the way in which choreographies are
defined, including:
1. Detailed message format independence. Business documents necessarily vary
in their structure, for eaxmple: a) Invoices in the US include sales tax
whereas in Europe they contain VAT, or b) line items on travel related
invoice could contain flight segment information. This means that the
choreography defintion should be independent of any specific document
format.
2. Service implementation independence. The same choreography must work no
matter who has implemented the services that generate and accept the
messages in the choreogrpaphy. This means it should be possible to define a
choreography independently of the WSDL.
RUN-TIME CHOREOGRAPHY CHECKING
A choreography definition should be usable at run time to check that an
implementation is generating and receiving messages in the correct sequence.
Since successful B2B is completely dependent on following a choreography
correctly, then being able to check that messages are being sent in the
correct sequence is independent. If this can be done by interpreting the
choreography definition, then it allows new definitions to be implemented
with confidence.
Thoughts? Any other ideas?
David
Director, Product Management, Web Services
Commerce One
4440 Rosewood Drive, Pleasanton, CA 94588, USA
Tel/VMail: +1 (925) 520 4422; Cell: +1 (925) 216 7704
Are we expanding the scope to encompass the complex business processes,
evident in B2B or bounding what we can realistically accomplish?
Thanks.
I am not suggesting that we define complex business processes (e.g. how to
place an order), I am suggesting that we define a language that allows
others to define these processes. I also think that this realistic to
accomplish. If you don't I would like to understand your reasons why?
David
Are we expanding the scope to encompass the complex business processes,
evident in B2B or bounding what we can realistically accomplish?
Thanks.
Hi,
As you says, message format can vary.
I hit on another problem.
I wonder what to do if we need to use the value of the tax variable to
contorol the flow in orchestration.
We may have to refer the VAT value as tax value...
I think we need a concept of semantics to correspond these variables.
Yoko Seki
Hitachi, Ltd.
mail-to:y-seki@sdl.hitachi.co.jp
Yoko
You raise a good point. But it is a problem that can be solved by defining,
in an abstract way: a condition, its semantic meaning and what to do when
the condition is satisfied; and then binding the abstract definition to a
specific instance.
Here's a very simple use case. In this choreography a company that is
generating an inovice needs to examine the country codes in the invoice and,
depending on whether the countries are in the US or a country in Europe send
the Invoice to a "US tax calculation service" or a "EU tax calculation
service".
Note that this is just an example of the principles of how to separate the
abstract from the concrete would work rather than a definitive suggestion of
what is requried.
ABSTRACT DEFINITION
The first step would be to define the condition, messsage and roles
abstractly (the words between asterisks), for example ...
If Condition is *USInvoice* then
Send *Invoice* message from "Invoice generating role" to *US Tax
Calculation Role*
If Condition is *EUInvoice* then
Send *Invoice* message from "Invoice generating role" to *EU Tax
Calculation Role*
Note, I am deliberatly not proposing a specific syntax.
SEMANTIC DEFINITIONS
As each of the items inside asterisks are abstract definitions they need to
have a semantic definition associated with them, for example:
1. The semantic definition for a *USInvoice* could be "An Invoice where the
services provided by and the normal place of business of the business that
is generating the Invoice, and the normal place of business that is to pay
the Invoice are both within the United States".
2. The semantic definition for an *Invoice* is "A document that requests
payment by one business for services provided by another".
3. The semantic definition for a *US Tax Calculation Role* is "The role that
provides a service to calculate the tax dues on US Invoices".
I'm (slightly) laboring the point that abstract definitions are in English
(or French, or ...) rather than any technical definition and that they must
be clear and umambiguous. This is necessary so that the someone who has
never seen the choreorgraphy definition before can take it and bind it to an
instance with confidence.
CHOREOGRAPHY BINDING
The next step is to bind the semantic definitions to technology that
implements them, for example:
1. *USInvoice* could be mapped to an xPath expression that returns whether
or not an Invoice is a US Invoice
2. *US Tax Calculation Role* could be mapped to a specific service instance
defined in WSDL somewhere that is to be called by the implementation.
3. *Invoice* could be mapped to a message structure, for example, a UBL
Invoice with a specific namespace wrapped in DIME with optional attachments
that is part of a WSDL Service definition.
Now this particular choreography is perhaps a bit simple and could be
implemented in a different way, but there are many choreographies that need
to be standardized, especially for B2B, where this type of approach is
really necessary, if there are to be a finite number of choreography
definitions.
Hope this helps.
David
Hi,
As you says, message format can vary.
I hit on another problem.
I wonder what to do if we need to use the value of the tax variable to
contorol the flow in orchestration.
We may have to refer the VAT value as tax value...
I think we need a concept of semantics to correspond these variables.
Yoko Seki
Hitachi, Ltd.
mail-to:y-seki@sdl.hitachi.co.jp
