Hi,
I'm an italian student of computer science and I'm interesting in OWL and Semantic Web. I've written time ago an e-mail in
www-rdf-logic@w3.org mailing list on the problem of layering the languages for the Semantic Web. I asked how RDF and RDFS
are in relation with OWL, and how they work well togheter....
The situation seemed quite clear but now I've read in [1] that the problem is not solved. Rather there are now more thesis for the layering of the languages and RDF/RDFS seems to be problematic. In the article I've understood that the approach using First Order Logic insted of RDF/RDFS is better but is now problematic because it's too late for a change of this type.
I'm very confused and I don't understand why only now these problems arise, what's happen?
What's the real situation of layering? Can these problems are serious for the realization of Semantic Web?
I need more informations about it. Where can i find them? Someone can tell me why only now this problem arise?
Does the layering of the Semantic Web will change in the future? ( FOL instead of RDF/RDFS ..)
It's like a shock.... :(
Thank you very much for your answers,
Davide.
[1] Ian Horrocks and Peter F. Patel-Schneider. Three theses of representation in the semantic web. In Proc. of the Twelfth International World Wide Web Conference (WWW 2003), 2003. To appear.
Noaro Davide
noarodavide@libero.it
You're welcome to continue the discussion in www-rdf-logic,
but the purpose of public-webont-comments is comments
on the OWL specifications, not general discussion.
Dan Connolly, W3C http://www.w3.org/People/Connolly/
David-
For what it is worth, the paper you cite is just the authors'
opinions, not necessarily that of most of the others working on the
Semantic Web. Personally, I would suggest you ignore it as far as
practical impact goes - but my "scruffy" opinions on this issue have
long been a matter of the public record.
-JH
Hi,
I'm an italian student of computer science and I'm interesting in OWL
and Semantic Web. I've written time ago an e-mail in
mailto:www-rdf-logic@w3.org www-rdf-logic@w3.org mailing list on the
problem of layering the languages for the Semantic Web. I asked how
RDF and RDFS
are in relation with OWL, and how they work well togheter....
The situation seemed quite clear but now I've read in [1] that the
problem is not solved. Rather there are now more thesis for the
layering of the languages and RDF/RDFS seems to be problematic. In
the article I've understood that the approach using First Order Logic
insted of RDF/RDFS is better but is now problematic because it's too
late for a change of this type.
I'm very confused and I don't understand why only now these problems
arise, what's happen?
What's the real situation of layering? Can these problems are serious
for the realization of Semantic Web?
I need more informations about it. Where can i find them? Someone can
tell me why only now this problem arise?
Does the layering of the Semantic Web will change in the future? (
FOL instead of RDF/RDFS ..)
It's like a shock.... :(
Thank you very much for your answers,
Davide.
[1] Ian Horrocks and Peter F. Patel-Schneider. Three theses of
representation in the semantic web. In Proc. of the Twelfth
International World Wide Web Conference (WWW 2003), 2003. To appear.
Noaro Davide
mailto:noarodavide@libero.it noarodavide@libero.it
Professor James Hendler hendler@cs.umd.edu
Director, Semantic Web and Agent Technologies 301-405-2696
Univ of Maryland, College Park, MD 20742 *** 240-277-3388 (Cell)
