Basically a thumbs-up.
Mostly typos follow, although I've still some concerns about mentioning
the law at all in this document.
Section 2.2.3
- The last sentence "The other kind of value..." kind of leaves me
hanging, wanting to know what a literal is. And isn't this
section about names, not values?
Section 3.1
- Is the last sentence a shorthand for "...is the conjunction *of the
meaning* of all the statements..."? Actually, that's more
confusing, better as it is.
Section 3.2
- This chestnut again. Nodes _are_ URIrefs, but arcs are labelled by
URIrefs. This is nitpicking though.
Section 3.3
- Terms like "paired with exactly one" make the lexical- value mapping
sound bijective, although both bullet points taken together
make this clear.
- XMLLiteral. This might actually be a comment on semantics section 4.1,
rule rdf2b. I wasn't sure when I read that if the canonical form
of an XML Literal subsumed the lang tag into the literal or
whether it's an external thing. If the latter (which section 5
might be seens as giving the lie to) rdf2b needs revision (for
a typo).
- last paragraph. Note that compound XML schema types are somewhat
undersupported at the moment (I think).
Section 3.5
- possibly an OWL comment: can OWL express a relational compound
primary key using the relational- rdf mapping suggested
in this example?
Section 3.6
- First paragraph, "The ideas *of* meaning..."
Section 4.2, penultimate paragraph.
- Be really bloody careful here. Libel law (in the UK at least) does not
observe the de re/de dicto distinction; publishing a libellous
statement with qualifications or in quotes may constitute libel
itself. Don't write anything that might be construed as quasi-
legal advice into something published by the W3C (or get
someone with a legal head to check it first).
Section 4.5
- be careful here too. if the assertion in (B) comes after that in (C),
the publishers of (C) might feel hard-done-by should a
specification indicate that they are in the wrong (although
"previously defined" might be seen as a get-out).
Section 6.4
- phew! It's ironic that "universal resource identifiers" have been
extended to produce "international resource identifiers".
Section 6.5.2
- typo, second paragraph: "the pair *formed* by the lexical form..."
Section 7.
- first para, I've only ever seen "context-free" hyphenated, although
"context dependent" looks fine. Maybe someone can step in with
a dictionary?
- third bullet point reads to me as with a use/mention problem. I think
"Graham Klyne's car" should be in quotes. Is Graham Klyne's
car an abstract idea? Or is the notion of his car the idea?
In fact, the whole example is borderline Pythonesque.
- fourth bullet point reads "Thus: thus, ..."
I think that's it. I would add a disclaimer at the top (probably after
the penultimate paragraph of section 1) that (particularly
non-normative) sections are intended to be
illustrative/expositive/explanatory/whatever and
not to constitute any form of legal advice.
jan
jan grant, ILRT, University of Bristol. http://www.ilrt.bris.ac.uk/
I got a lawyer (Danny W.) to look at the concepts stuff a while
back; he was OK with the legal stuff there.
I'm pretty sure I sent mail to the WG saying so...
darn; searching for the keywords I think I would have
used (Weitzner, rdfms-assertion) suggests I didn't.
I haven't seen any changes that suggest he should look at
it again, though I haven't been following very closely.
But I'm fairly confident we're OK here.
EricM, if you're not, please get Danny to review it
again after last call.
Dan Connolly, W3C http://www.w3.org/People/Connolly/
To be clear, my concern is not over the legal accuracy of the
statements, just that it can't be construed as offering legal advice
(the US is notoriously litigious).
Cheers,
jan
jan grant, ILRT, University of Bristol. http://www.ilrt.bris.ac.uk/
Q: What's yellow and equivalent to the axiom of choice? A: Zorn's lemon.
Jan,
Thanks for this... it's added to my issues list for action in the last-call
period.
#g
Graham Klyne
