I had understood that it was axiomatic that we respected other points of
view.
ie the following is not acceptable:
Subject: RE: Betsie / Gateway comparison
Hi, thanks for your message. I agree there certainly is a limit to what
a gateway can do (take those stupid pages that are 100% gif files, for
example);
Our site www.peepo.com is for non readers, some deaf, with a
comprehension(reading) level ~age 3-10.
I hope it will soon have shockwave,GIFs work wonders, text labels mainly
confuse.
I am delighted for it to be accessible to others. But before you cast stones
please ensure that you site is accessible to our group.
Searching for sites without text is very labour intensive, not least because
the designers of HTML saw fit to ignore the need for text tags.
Have you tried to search by listening, rather than watching, say TV, it
takes a looong time.
Jonathan Chetwynd
jay@peepo.com
SignBrowser
Our site for non-readers
www.peepo.com
I'm sorry if I caused any offense. By "those stupid pages that are 100%
gif files" I certainly wasn't thinking of sites for non-readers. I was
thinking of sites with lots of text, but which encode that text as gif
files for the sole purpose of getting a particular layout, and leave no
text alternative. This makes the text inaccessible to anyone who can't
visually read it (and if anyone invents a text to sign language
converter, I think that will want the text in ASCII too).
BTW There's nothing to stop you putting a few ALT tags on www.peepo.com
so text-only readers can make some sense of it (if you want them to).
I'm not surprised! The T in HTML stands for Text, and all the search
engines work in text. You've taken on something really difficult! BTW
how can someone like me write a website without text? If you want more
textless sites, I think it would help if you could write a load of text
telling web page authors how to do it (even if they're not artists,
can't see what they're doing etc).
Is there some way of converting a page of text to a page without? If
so, maybe I could bolt it on to my access gateway. It'll probably be
quite complicated though (like, understanding English). But this is a
part of universal accessibility and I'm convinced that one day computers
will be able to convert anything to anything (that's what I'm working
on).
PS The disadvantage of introducing something like Shockwave is, how
exactly do you tell these people that they need Netscape 4 or whatever?
Maybe you need a really clever web server that understands USER_AGENT.
Regards
-- Silas S Brown, St John's College Cambridge UK http://epona.ucam.org/~ssb22/
"Just like someone mad that is shooting fiery missiles, arrows and death,
so is the man that has tricked his fellowman and has said: 'Was I not having
fun?'" - Proverbs 26:19
Hi,
Jonathan, of course it is axiomatic that we respect other points of view.
However, pages that are 100% gif files which do not contain textual
alternatives are clearly described in the current draft of the Page Author
Guidelines in the following way: 'If text equivalents are not provided for
visual information, people who are blind, have low vision, or any user who
cannot or has chosen not to view graphics will not know the purpose of the
visual components on the page.'
This is a lot more polite than saying that pages that are 100% gif files are
stupid, but it is basically saying the same thing. In the context of an
accessibility issues discussion group, one might expect people to make
strong and robust arguments or statements in favour of accessibility as
described in the current draft guidelines (or beyond). To my mind, this
would include describing pages that are 100% gif files as stupid, especially
in the context of the fact that the various HTML specifications at no point
contain any indication that such pages are intended or indeed desirable.
Pages that contain mainly gif files but with meaningful textual alternatives
for each one do not count as '100% gif files'.
Are you perhaps suggesting that this draft of the Guidelines is in error,
and should read something like 'If text equivalents are not provided for
visual information, people who are blind, have low vision or any user who
cannot or has chosen not to view graphics will not know the purpose of the
visual components on the page. Unless the site is described as deliberately
being for 'non-readers' in which case the page author may do exactly as they
wish with our blessing, because god forbid we should cast aspersions on the
accessibility efforts of others.' I don't think you will find much support
for such a suggestion, because it doesn't make any sense.
I am fascinated by the nature of your work with developing websites for
non-readers and would be very interested to hear of some kind of theoretical
basis for your notion that small little gifs distributed in no clearly
discernible order on a page which itself reloads on a regular basis without
any kind of textual contextualisation at all or ALT attributes (so this
accessiblity page is deliberately inaccessible to the blind, visually
impaired, users of text-only browsers etc) is in some way more accessible to
some group of people than others.
I must confess an embarrassing degree of ignorance here, since to be frank,
your page doesn't look to me to be accessible to anyone at all in any way at
all, except in the context of other masterpieces of net.art, which
www.peepo.com undoubtedly is, deliberately cocking a snook as it does at our
preconceived notions of linkage, context, graphical aesthetica and the
stability of the HTML page.
It may be, then, that I have failed to understand various key things to do
with the accessibility group you mention. I would be very grateful
therefore, if you could please explain why it is accessible and appropriate
for you to link to the Cosmopolitan horoscopes page, to the Smithsonian
"Revealing Things" exhibition (which is heavily textual in its
contextualisation), to the very text heavy 'Allied Chemical Music Division'
site (slogan - 'it's a better world through chemicals', URL:
simulator site on http://www.vauxhall-drts.com/home.htm and to various other
sites that are clearly manifestly unsuitable for non-readers, containing as
they do a large amount of text.
Similarly, your link to http://www.byrne.dircon.co.uk/faeces/index.htm may
well be considered to be inappropriate on a site designed, as you say, for
those with a reading age of between 3 and 10, in light of the fact that you
make no note suggesting that it may not, in fact, be considered suitable for
children by teachers and parents (whatever children themsleves may think of
such a site.)
Again, this is in direct contradiction to the current draft guidelines,
which tend, in general, to recommend text labels. To quote: ' It is good
practice, as you design a document containing non-textual information
(images, graphics, applets, sounds, etc.) to think about supplementing that
information with textual equivalents wherever possible.'
Your suggestion seems to be in fact something along the lines of the
following: 'It is good practice, as you design a document containing
non-textual information, not to bother with textual equivalents, because
they mainly confuse.'
I think that such wildly divergent ideas are going to be hard to bring to
any kind of consensus.
Nevertheless, I look forward to your reply with interest.
Cheers etc.,
Wayne Myers
Interactive Software Engineer
BBC Digital Media
0181-752-6116
Hi,
Well Jonathan's point is independent of how good his page is, but the
problem is that it's not so much a question of making your site
*accessible* to these people as making it *for* these people. Although
I think it would be good to have at least a text link "About this site"
or something, to let everyone else know what's going on (and perhaps
provide some useful information about learning disabilities etc).
Unfortunately people with learning disabilities can't comprehend most
information no matter what form it is in. There is no way that I can
make, for example, the Cambridge University Computer Society site
learning disabilities (if there is, I'd like to know). Jonathan's
complaint that there is a shortage of good sites for these people is
probably because there are few people out there who are suitably
qualified to produce them. Not everybody knows how to produce a good
site for people with learning disabilities. Presumably the problems
with peepo.com are a result of desparation.
At any rate, I don't think he's going to get good results in the
Evaluation and Repair group, because most of the information available
on the web is fundamentally inaccessible to these people, regardless of
how you repair it. You can't expect the whole world to come down to the
level of a three-year-old (otherwise the World Wide Web wouldn't exist
anyway). Perhaps he should create his own interest group?
There is another issue here, though. If you teach the whole world how
to write web sites for people with learning disabilities, companies will
use it to advertise. I suspect it is very easy to mislead these people
if you know how. Perhaps it would be better if the work remained under
the control of the social services.
Regards
-- Silas S Brown, St John's College Cambridge UK http://epona.ucam.org/~ssb22/
"Do not put your trust in nobles, nor in the sons of earthling man, to whom
no salvation belongs." - Psalm 146:3
Hi,
Having eventually found some of the more informative pages on peepo.com,
such as:
and especially
I very much agree with Silas and
I am feeling very red-faced and embarrassed and apologetic for having been
so rude and catty in my earlier posting today, which may have cast doubt on
the seriousness of the peepo.com project. My profuse apologies to Jonathan
and to all concerned for that. Mind you, I still stand by my comments to the
effect that even this kind of a site ought to make proper use of ALT
attributes.
Well, that'll teach me to send rude emails. Apologies again.
Cheers etc.,
Wayne
