Date: 11 December 1998, 16:20 hrs
From: Eric Hansen
Re: Why I Disfavor Using "Universal Design" in the Title
I would like to respond to Dan Dardailler's question about why I disfavor
the use of the phrase "Universal Design" in the title of the page authoring
guidelines document. (See an excerpt of his question at the bottom of this
memo.)
I wish to state at the beginning that I believe that Web-based products and
services should be designed to be accessible to people with disabilities
and highly usable by all people. By that simple test, I am a believer in
Universal Design. Generally, I think that the term Universal Design is a
nice way of describing what we are trying to help people do. However, I
have many reservations about the term when it comes to using the term in
the title of the WAI page authoring guidelines.
My reservations are only partly related to limitations of the document as
it currently exists.
For a review of my analysis of some of the limitations, see my previous
postings:
"Priorities, Impacts, Etc."
"Suggestions" particularly items 15 and 16
"Refining the Scope to Address Gaps"
"Gaps: (1) Language Readability, (2) Privacy"
The working group has recently strengthened guidelines related to
comprehensibility of language (see especially guideline B.3, beginning in
the 17 Nov 1998 version)
(http://www.w3.org/WAI/GL/WD-WAI-PAGEAUTH-19981117.html). This helps
address issues that I had raised.
Yet language is just one "gap."
Andrew Marlatt in an article in Internet World notes, "Despite their
immediacy as a barrier, language differences are just the beginning of the
international-audience problem. The list of cultural obstacles grows in
relation to the number of cultures a site tries to accommodate. ? [T]he
truly international site would avoid politics, humor, history, sex, and
religion; the numbers 2, 4, 13, and 666; the colors white, black, red, blue,
yellow, and purple; pictures of children, food, animals, body parts, flags,
women in authority positions; slang, acronyms, abbreviations, long
sentences, and, in fact, excessive text. ("Can one site appeal to all?: The
increasingly multicultural Web poses problems for designers", Internet
World, 16 Nov 1998, p. 23).
I recommend the full article for your review.
Without at least an acknowledgement of other factors I don't think that the
document should be considered a guide to Universal Design of Web pages or
sites.
Indeed, I believe that any decent guide to Universal Design will
acknowledge that its scope is limited and that it is not able to focus on
the full universe of considerations that should go into the overall design
of any product or service (including a Web-based product or service).
I recently proposed such an acknowledgement as part of my draft revision of
the Abstract.
"This document focuses primarily on issues that can be influenced through
markup of the Web content."
"This document does not constitute a complete guide to Web design. It does
not necessarily address all valuable principle of visual design, although
it is expected that these guidelines are generally compatible with and
supportive of good visual design. Nor does the document specifically
address several other issues, such as economic, legal, and cultural issues
that can also influence the accessibility and usability of Web pages." (See
item 15 of my "Suggestions" memo,
With that kind of acknowledgement, perhaps the document is sufficiently
complete to be considered a guide to Universal Design. (By the way, the
wording on that paragraph still needs refinement.)
But even if the design document does acknowledge its limitations, I have
other concerns about the term "Universal Design."
I think that the term "Universal Design" is an oxymoron (Greek for
"pointedly foolish"). The phrase "jumbo shrimp" is an oxymoron. One word
contradicts another. The term "design" means, in my view, a process that is
intended to result in a solution that satisfies several, but not an
infinite number of constraints such as cost, quality of materials,
usability, accessibility, etc. Good design results in practical products
that provide at least a minimal level of satisfaction for a good chunk its
target audience. The "universal" in this context says that the design
process will work for everyone. Yet this is impossible, because no design
can satisfy what is essentially an infinite number of constraints. For
every practical set of "Universal Design" guidelines that a Web developer
can follow, I can find people for whom her Web content is inaccessible.
Thus, even if the guidelines fully treat issues like Web page mark up,
alternative content, comprehensibility of language, and respect for old
browsers, I can always point out some consideration that could make the Web
page inaccessible or unusable by some group -- even more specifically, some
disability group.
Of course oxymorons grab attention and for that reason, they may be useful
in advertising and promotion.
"Universal design" is wonderful and commendable as one design objective
among many, but if other important considerations are ignored, the product
or service will fail.
I don't want people to be misled into thinking that a small set of
"universal design guidelines" will guarantee that a product or service will
be accessible. Even if you acknowledge that within the document, a title of
"Universal Design" could be misleading.
One thing that I am not comfortable with is the possibility that the page
authoring guidelines lose their disability focus and I am concerned that
overuse of the term "universal access" might lead to that. I think that it
is appropriate to point out how these guidelines will greatly benefit
nondisabled users as well. But I would like to keep the primary focus on
issues that differentially disadvantage people with disabilities.
In conclusions, I suggest.
1. Develop the "impact" ratings (or better yet, "adjusted impact ratings"),
particularly for the small number of disability groups, for each guideline
as outlined in my 10 Dec 98 posting. These rating are intended to help keep
the focus on issues that differentially disadvantage people with
disabilities.
2. Acknowledge the limitations of the document.
3. Avoid using "Universal Design" in the document title.
Background material
From D. Dardailler
Starts with quote from E. Hansen:
Item-18. Some Thoughts on the Name of the WAIGL-PA Document
I think that the current name is OK, though as noted
elsewhere in this document the use of the term "page" seems
a bit archaic.
I am against using the term "universal design" in the title.
"Universal design" -- i.e., usability by everyone everywhere
-- is a great design objective, but it suggests a note of
impracticality and also, in the minds of some, the phrase
may carry other meanings that we might not want associated
with the guidelines.
Can you elaborate on the "impracticality" and the "other meaning"aspects ?
Besides, the document does not deserve
the title because no where does it acknowledge the wide
range of considerations that should go into the design of
accessible and cost-effective Web-based products and
services.
These guidelines promote the design of web content so that it can be
accessed no matter what operating system, device, or modality of user
interface one has, hence the universality. In which way are we not
considering enough universality in the design (given our limited context of
web content production) ?
Eric G. Hansen, Ph.D.
Development Scientist
Educational Testing Service
ETS 12-R
Rosedale Road
Princeton, NJ 08541
(W) 609-734-5615
E-mail: ehansen@ets.org
At the core of this issue lies the definitional problem of what, for the
purposes of the guidelines, are the conditions under which a document
to be considered accessible. The priority 1 guidelines merely require that
it be possible for the document to be presented in any of a range of
sensory modalities (auditory, tactile and visual). This stratum defines a
minimal level of accessibility and does not entail that the information
will be comprehensible, or even that inner structural relations will be
apparent to the reader. Most of the technical considerations which
determine whether this minimal degree of accessibility is attained, have
the advantage of being readily identifiable by automated tools (absence of
textual alternatives to multimedia content, failure to comply with W3C
standards, etc.).
At a second level one finds those issues which concern the structure of
the document, which provides cues that indicate an appropriate reading
order and facilitate browsing strategies. Yet another layer is added by
questions of readability and comprehension, which, however, are implicitly
at work throughout the guidelines (for example in determining what
constitutes appropriate and sufficiently detailed alternative text, what
should be included as a structural aid in a table summary, etc.). Cultural
and linguistic aspects of comprehension also emerge at this stage.
Thus, leaving aside the requirement for alternative
descriptions/transcriptions, and table summaries, which involve
supplementing the text with additional material to compensate for
information that is lost when the document is displayed in different
media, I think the range of problems addressed by the guidelines can be
categorized according to three levels: (1) the perceptual; (2) the
structural and navigational; and (3) the comprehension issues.
The guidelines strive to be comprehensive in respect of levels (1) and
(2) and to offer limited suggestions with regard to level (3). The latter
relate mostly to those aspects of comprehension which are most affected by
the rendering of the document in different media (ALT text etc.), and
navigation (links which can be understood out of context), with
supplementary references to readability.
I think it is necessary to circumscribe the guidelines' treatment of
comprehension-related problems, and to do so in a principled manner,
either by describing (as a profile) the expected characteristics of the
intended reader of an "accessible document", or by developing other
criteria. Obviously, there can be no such entity as a document which is
readable and comprehensible to everyone. Thus it is necessary to define
the scope of the guidelines carefully and to justify the boundaries which
necessarily have to be imposed.
I think at the heart of the issue is the answer to the question: do we
want to promote these guidelines as focused first on accessibility for
people with disabilities or as focused first on accessibility no
matter what medium is used.
To the question: why do we do that ?
do we want to answer:
- it's for people with disabilities, e.g. blind or mobility impaired
users, and it also benefits screenless or mouseless users,
e.g. webphone or handheld device users
- it's for anyone accessing the web thru a phone or a
handheld device, with no screen or mouse, and it's also for people
with disabilities, e.g. blind or mobility impaired users.
May I ask you to elaborate on this part ?
While I agree with you (you convinced me that is) that Universal
Design is not the appropriate term for what we do (as Jason
summarized, we're missing most of the comprehension/semantics pieces
of design), I think naming one thing after another more powerful thing
(the difference being esoteric for most people) is a marketing trick
many people have used before us.
Alternatively, we could used a name like "Universal Access
Guidelines", to focus on the medium/structure part (how do we provide
the information) and less on the semantics part (what is this
information).
I don't think anyone authorized us to work on guidelines for people who do
not have disabilities. Also, if the guidelines are to be picked up and used
by others to ensure access to the web by people with disabilities, they need
to keep their disability focus.
However, I think it is good, where we can do it with a few words, to point
out the other beneficiaries of the proposed access guidelines and techniques
as well.
Gregg
Gregg C Vanderheiden Ph.D.
Professor - Human Factors
Dept of Ind. Engr. - U of Wis.
Director - Trace R &amp; D Center
Gv@trace.wisc.edu, http://trace.wisc.edu/
For a list of our listserves send "lists" to listproc@trace.wisc.edu
Of Daniel Dardailler
I think at the heart of the issue is the answer to the question: do we
want to promote these guidelines as focused first on accessibility for
people with disabilities or as focused first on accessibility no
matter what medium is used.
To the question: why do we do that ?
do we want to answer:
- it's for people with disabilities, e.g. blind or mobility impaired
users, and it also benefits screenless or mouseless users,
e.g. webphone or handheld device users
- it's for anyone accessing the web thru a phone or a
handheld device, with no screen or mouse, and it's also for people
with disabilities, e.g. blind or mobility impaired users.
May I ask you to elaborate on this part ?
While I agree with you (you convinced me that is) that Universal
Design is not the appropriate term for what we do (as Jason
summarized, we're missing most of the comprehension/semantics pieces
of design), I think naming one thing after another more powerful thing
(the difference being esoteric for most people) is a marketing trick
many people have used before us.
Alternatively, we could used a name like "Universal Access
Guidelines", to focus on the medium/structure part (how do we provide
the information) and less on the semantics part (what is this
information).
