After looking at the examples in the link proposals I find that I
cannot face the prospect of working for the next 10 or 20 years with
this.
We should get rid of the hyphen in front of XML in reserved names and
attributes.
"-XML" is ugly, it's hard to type, it looks dumb, and it doesn't
really pollute the name space any less than any other reserved string.
Reserve "XML" and be done with it.
Jon
Please do. The hyphens add a measure of oddity that seems unwarranted.
Unless there is some other justification (and last week I spent a fair
amount of time poring over the listserver archives), let's strike this one.
Please add my vote to Jon and Lee's.
Murray
Murray Altheim, Program Manager
Spyglass, Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts
"Give a monkey the tools and he'll eventually build a typewriter."
Another "me too". Chuck the hyphen. Tres uggggly.
- len -
Having come in on this after the draft spec was out, I assumed this was
set in Jell-O. Ditch it, IMHO.
///Peter
Does this mean (as I infer and hope) that all XML-* (elements starting with
'XML-') are reserved? If so, it should presumably be stated in the XML spec.
Otherwise the spec will need to list the (?5) reserved element types.
Would it be a reportable error to have other tags starting with 'XML-'?
The reason I mention this is that it seems that a managed XML- namespace
may be extremely useful. I'm NOT making a proposal, but suggest the following
scenario. We shall shortly create the primordial tag-soup where anything
goes, but it is possible that order may evolve out of chaos. As an
example, I expect lots of authors to create a DATE tag. Its semantics
could be formalised (perhaps by using the ISO standard) and XML/W3C might
play a role in this. Perhaps it could evolve through XML-X-DATE (by
analogy with unregistered MIME types) to XML-DATE .
When discussing how we add semantics to elements, one approach (where
appropriate) is to develop a set of such information components. These
could be used in WF documents without the need for a DTD, or alternatively
could be bolted into individual DTDs without needing to supply explicit
semantics.
At this stage the question would be whether any/all 'XML-' strings other than
those in XML-LINK were reserved, and perhaps whether an XML-X- mechanism
was allowed.
P.
Peter Murray-Rust, (domestic net connection)
Virtual School of Molecular Sciences, Nottingham University, UK
