Pretty layout problem
when TIDY'd (? sp.) looks like this
!-- comment goes here -- !--#include file="footer.inc" -- !-- another
comment goes here --
Any way to retain the original layout? Perhaps a new-blocklevel-tag? Something
in the config file?
Also, when there's only ONE comment the pretty version has an extra blank line
after it (which thus detaches the comment from the following block - defeating
it's purpose), thus
instead of
Any way to fix this?
Get your own FREE, personal Netscape WebMail account today at http://home.netscape.com/webmail
Perhaps whitespace is not significant to the documentor the parser; however,
it is often very significant to the humans responsible for editing the
document. I suspect that this is what Richard was referring to.
cheers,
~stuart
I wrote, about HTML Tidy changing the line breaking around comments:
Certainly a problem, because the two have different content.
Alexander Biron replied:
Maybe I miss something, but an include file normally contains HTML,
Totally irrelevant. The point remains: the comment moving that
HTML Tidy did in the original example CHANGES THE CONTENT of the
document.
No. There is no change, whitespaces aren't significant at that point.
We are agreed that newlines after comments should not be removed
YES
Perhaps whitespace is not significant to the document or the parser;
however, it is often _very_ significant to the humans responsible for
editing the document
YES
I would not change anything with the HTML source, but would
really like to see tidy change. Here we are only concerned with the
pretty printing function of tidy
YES
Comments need to be indented in the pretty version, with no newlines removed
OR ADDED. In my original post I said that when there's only ONE comment the
pretty version inserts an extra blank line after it (which thus detaches the
comment from the following block - defeating it's purpose), thus
instead of
unless the blank line is added BEFORE the paragraph block which follows the
comment? In this case the prettying function needs to recognize that the
previous tag was a comment and NOT insert the extra blank line.
Get your own FREE, personal Netscape WebMail account today at http://home.netscape.com/webmail
We are agreed that newlines after comments should not be removed
I would like to see the same behaviour added for INPUT TYPE="hidden" .
I usually write hidden INPUT fields right after the opening FORM tag,
indented and one per line.
Tidy currently collapses the line breaks and indentation into a single
space, which is not very "pretty"...
I'd like to add to this that, like with BR , Tidy adds a
one-space-indentation after commments under certain circumstances, for
example if between comment and next tag or word is a newline plus one or
more whitespaces (typical for indentation). This appears to be quite
clearly a bug in the pretty printing routine of Tidy, if someone on this
list could tell me where and what to look for, I'd happily try to spot and
fix it.
sebastian
Sebastian Lange
Maybe the first chat site that validates as HTML
4.0 even though user input may contain HTML codes.
Courtesy to Dave Raggett's HTML Tidy:
Tidy your documents ONLINE:
