Not our most successful meeting ...
SUMMARY
DECISION (by 6 votes to 5) An rdf:descripton element containing a property
element of age 10 /age is untidy.
[Scribe note, aside:
However, see
"I believe we have to try again to find a consensus. "]
ACTION 2002-09-20#1 jjc Produce test case domain and range.
ACTION 2002-09-20#2 gk Post references to his previous actions on
"assertion"
REQUEST: jan (from danc) please do datatype test case (literal to bnode)
AGENDA
TRANSCRIPT
1: Scribes
Jeremy this week; Graham next week (hopefully).
2: Roll Call
Present:
FrankM, Steve, PatrickS, PatH, Graham, AaronSw, Mike_Dean, Jeremy.
Bwm, DaveB, JanG, DanBri, DanC, Sergey
Regrets:
Jos, EricM
3: Review Agenda
No change.
4: Next telecon 27th Sept 2002
5: Minutes of 2002-09-13 telecon
See:
Approved.
6: Confirm Status of Completed Actions
ACTION: 2002-09-13#7 bwm
contact DaveB and request update n-triples depends on completion of
2002-09-06#4) to reflect datatype concensus
see:
ACTION: 2002-09-13#9 bwm
request space at the tech plenary for RDF meeting
Both confirmed.
Note: action 2002-09-13#7 is now 2002-09-13#7a and assigned to DaveB.
7: Review of namespaces last call
2002-09-13#1 jjc will send comments re namespace last call to appropriate
group
2002-09-06#1 bwm get feedback to namespaces WG
See:
The action is complete:
DanC raised the issue of a namespace as a collection of names.
It was determined that RDF makes no use of this concept, and so whether it
is a good concept or not is moot.
8: Semantics of untyped Literals
The WG should choose between value based and string based semantics
See:
More tedious discussion, repeating the tedious discussion that we have had
for nearly a year now.
As usual many strong opinions, a few waverers and a complete split down the
middle at each straw poll.
DanBri said a few things I hadn't heard before: perhaps seeing M&amp;S as tidy
(see
untidy, but Schema never got to Rec.
If you weren't there you didn't miss much really.
After two completely split straw polls (U5-T4 and U7-T5) we then had a
formal vote.
Question: where you have an rdf:descipriton element containing a property
element of age 10 /age is that tidy or untidy?
The vote was:
Tidy:
ILRT (Jan, DaveB), W3C (Dan &amp; Dan), Steve, PatH, Aaron
Untidy:
Frank, PatrickS, Jeremy, Graham, Mike, Sergey.
i.e.
DECISION (by 6 votes to 5) An rdf:descripton element containing a property
element of age 10 /age is untidy.
[Scribe note, aside:
However, see
"I believe we have to try again to find a consensus. "]
DanC and DanBri for W3C recorded outstanding dissent.
9: Abstract Syntax for Literals
2002-09-06#4 jjc review material thus far on specifics of
rdfs:Datatype, rdfs:Literal and the abstract syntax of literals and
produce a proposal for wording in the Abs. Syntax document.
2002-09-13#8 jjc update the abstract data model in concepts doc to
reflect the pair denoting a datatype literal
Where are we on this. Do all literals have an xml lang component? Are
untyped literals specifically named?
See:
Lively discussion.
Pat and Patrick speak in favour of lang tag on typed literals.
Jeremy to get a move on with action.
10: Proposed technical changes to RDFS model theory
See:
ACTION 2002-09-20#1 jjc Produce test case domain and range.
11: Frank's new assertion text
2002-08-23#7 FrankM Propose alternative text for the concepts and abstract
model document to rectify concerns with conflicting use of
"assertion".
See:
ial
ACTION 2002-09-20#2 gk Post references to his previous actions on
"assertion"
Meeting closes.
After hours:
REQUEST: jan (from danc) please do datatype test case (literal to bnode)
Jeremy--
If you're going to provide commentary like this, don't you have to reify
the minutes?
--Frank
Frank Manola The MITRE Corporation
202 Burlington Road, MS A345 Bedford, MA 01730-1420
Perhaps I went a bit far ...
I'm afraid I found it a rather disheartening task this week.
Usually we have a bevy of actions and a couple of firm decisions.
Jeremy
I would like the meeting record to reflect that the chair asked who
intended to formally dissent depending on the outcome. If the decision was
tidy, Nokia intended to dissent. If the decision was untidy, W3C intended
to dissent.
I also see from the irc log
[14:24:48] DanC
pls let the record show that we haven't heard from adobe, and that danbri
doesn't think we can conclude much about their implementation.
[14:25:09] danb_lap
Yes, JJC pls ack that for the minutes.
[14:25:52] jjcscribe
jack
Brian
[Patrick Stickler, Nokia/Finland, (+358 40) 801 9690, patrick.stickler@nokia.com]
Well, the decision has been made (there is no longer an 'if').
If I understand the W3C process correctly, it is now the burden of
those dissenting, or rather those member organizations intending to
raise a formal objection, to present their arguments for consideration.
Thus, DanC and/or the W3C should present the WG with some official
summary of arguments why the decision that has been made by the
WG is unacceptable and should be modified or set aside.
In the meantime, the WG should continue to clarify the details of
the decision and complete the working drafts so that the community
also may participate in any further discussion.
And of course, that should include discussion and clarification
of the ramifications of the decision and how best to address
secondary issues relating to its formal definition, such as
representation in the abstract syntax and N-Triples, advice to
implementors, etc.
Patrick
The issue list for the RDF Concepts document is at:
See in particular the following issues related to RDF assertions:
Also having bearing on the assertion issue are:
#g
Graham Klyne
Patrick
as scribe I was unclear what to make of the chairs message "On Consensus",
which is why I thought it worth linking it from the minutes.
As WG member I would support the chair in taking into account Jos's uncast
vote and unmaking the decision (should the chair so desire).
Also, I would have resisted the making of a decision with so much dissent if
that dissent had been visible.
Jeremy
Sender:ext Jeremy Carroll jjc@hpl.hp.com
Patrick
as scribe I was unclear what to make of the chairs message "On Consensus",
which is why I thought it worth linking it from the minutes.
Well, I understand your reasons, but minutes are
minutes and list discussions are something else.
The minutes should reflect the telecon, partiularly
when decisions are made.
As WG member I would support the chair in taking into account Jos's uncast
vote and unmaking the decision (should the chair so desire).
It's unclear to me that Jos is in fact opposed to
the decision rather than concerned about the
abstract syntax and N-Triples representation.
Jos?
Also, I would have resisted the making of a decision with so much dissent if
that dissent had been visible.
The place for dissent to have been visible should have
been in the vote. Its not like folks haven't had enough
time to consider the implications of either option.
The WG has had at least three straw polls since the f2f,
and a formal vote, and an inquiry to the community and
all of them have favored untidy. Thus, there has been
a majority preference for some time. Friday's decision
was not simply a fluke.
I don't mean to be some pedantic 'stickler' ;-) for process,
but it seems to me that the decision was in fact made
according to the defined W3C process, and there are
clear steps to be taken to consider its modification, and
that includes persuasive arguments from those opposed.
Should these be presented to the WG, I will gladly review them
along with the rest of the WG.
I believe that it will be most productive to complete the specs
reflecting Friday's decision so that a broader audience can
offer their comments. The WG is closely divided on the issue,
yes, but a majority view has persisted for some time, bolstered by
community feedback, and that should be sufficient to proceed
based on Friday's decision.
Patrick
uncast
I would have said tidy, no doubt about that
and Jeremy actually made a very useful summary in
(I'm especially concerned for the cases where
it's not just a one step producer-consumer thing
but a fractal web of those, with exchange of proofs
to convince each other or some such and therefore
we should have unambiguity and monotonicity out there)
Jos De Roo, AGFA http://www.agfa.com/w3c/jdroo/
[Patrick Stickler, Nokia/Finland, (+358 40) 801 9690, patrick.stickler@nokia.com]
Jos, not to give you a hard time or anything, but I'm confused.
In http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2002Sep/0235.html
you respond to Brian in a way that I understood as being OK
with Friday's decision, so long as the untidyness was reflected
in the node labels:
You are objecting to
a b "foo" .
being untidy but that
a b _:dt"foo" .
is ok.
right, the latter is untidy
thanks for the clarification Brian
Then, the question as put, if it translated to:
something age _:dt"10" .
would you be ok with that?
of course I would
So while I understand that you still have a desire for some
form of "global string constant literal", other than a URIref,
you do not appear opposed to the idea of a distinctly labeled,
implicitly typed, untidy literal nodes which denote values
and not strings.
Eh?
Patrick
[good archeology]
of course not (just that "implicitly typed" is there
too much, should better be "unknown typed" I guess)
as that was "Brian's birthday present" you remember
i.e. datatyped literals but with an explicit/unambiguous
syntax
besides that I think we need a clarification of that
"global string constant literal" or "self-identifier"
or "tidy literal" or "inline literal" or whatever
you call it and I think (after rereading Sergey's
messages several times) we are close to that
Jos De Roo, AGFA http://www.agfa.com/w3c/jdroo/
[Patrick Stickler, Nokia/Finland, (+358 40) 801 9690, patrick.stickler@nokia.com]
Well, I guess the term implicit seems applicable since
the interpretation of the inline literal is based on
it being a lexical form that denotes some value. We can't
know what that value is based on the node label alone,
since the datatype is not specified, but a lexical form
denoting a datatype value implies a datatype, hence the
term "implicitly typed".
Given some implicitly typed literal _:x"LLL" the datatype
denoted by the system identifier _:x is unknown. But
the form of representation in the abstract syntax and
the semantics in the MT are analogous to explicitly
typed literals, where the datatype is in fact known,
e.g. DDD "LLL"
Given the above representation, where each inline literal
has a unique systemID prefix, *all* nodes in the
abstract graph can be considered both syntactically and
semantically tidy, no matter what type of node they
are (URIref, blank, explicitly typed literal, or
implicitly typed literal).
Eh?
But that hasn't changed. We still have explicitly typed
literals with unambiguous syntax and semantics.
&amp;xsd;integer "10"
always means the integer value ten, and is tidy.
My understanding/usage of the above terms:
"global string constant literal" - a bare string literal
with no explicit datatyping is taken to be a global constant,
where the meaning of the string is fixed. So, any two
statements that refer to the same string are considered to
be talking about the same thing. So both
:DanC x:isMemberOfOrganization "W3C" .
:blarg zz:widgetCode "W3C" .
are talking about the same thing when they say "W3C". Or
again both
:x foo:integerValue "10" .
:y bar:binaryValue "10" .
are talking about the same thing when they say "10".
Now, if you are simply using RDF as a structured markup
language, fine. It's OK to just talk about strings. But
if you are trying to use RDF to talk about the world,
well, such an interpretation of literals is rather sloppy
and unlikely to reflect the real world consistently.
"inline literal" - an old-style RDF literal without any
explicit local datatyping. E.g. age 10 /age
"tidy literal" - an inline literal that is interpreted as
a global string constant. The meaning of a tidy literal
reflects the form of expression.
"untidy literal" - an inline literal that is interpreted
as denoting some value, where the label embodies the
lexical form for that value according to some unspecified,
unknown datatype. The meaning of an untidy literal
reflects the world.
"self-identifier" - ??? a global string constant?
Patrick
