*** Resending note of 05/02/97 09:23
There appears to be several questions raised by the request to IANA of
'TLS-enabled' application protocol ports.
1) Is simply adding a port which negotiates SSL upon connection
sufficient to satisfy the protocol we are supposed to be protecting
(I would argue that in the specific case of FTP, this is not true
as it does not discuss the behaviour of the data port at all - at
the very least we need to specify the default ftp data port ?ftpds?
however this is only scratching the surface really)
2) Does adding another port allow heterogeneous client/server
interoperation, if not then surely something else needs to be
stated (probably as an RFC (possibly Informational))
3) The much more serious question, raised in several notes is that
really TLS negotiation and the policies of Clients/Servers shouldn't
be generalised (the implication of this mechanism of transparently
adding TLS to the bottom of the application negates the ability
of the application to set the TLS policies that are right for any
given conversation.) The correct approach must be to build TLS
aware applications that can negotiate TLS as part of their
initialisation and manage the public/private Keys, CA roots to
be trusted, CRL gathering, Cipher Suite selection etc... in a
manner that is appropriate for that conversation in that protocol.
So, given that an application will need changing, why not do it
properly and allow TLS negotiation in the application protocol.
I think several issues need to be raised before the IANA implicity
approves this approach by issuing all these port numbers.
- Should we not raise this issue more widely than just on ietf-tls,
the CAT W/G seem to have been set up for this very purpose - surley
we shouldn't subvert their efforts.
- Should we not interface to the other Application W/Gs (e.g. ftp-ext)
who may have a charter to secure the different application protocols.
In summary, my vote is .. propose the new ones that people are already
using, do not propose ftps until there is at least a commitment from
some IETF working group to define what it really means (The ftp one that
Eric, Tim Hudson and myself are writing is available for adoption !!),
do not add new ports 'just in case' as this may not be the long-term
preferred route.
Thanks,
Paul
The problem is that people are already using that port number in ftps
implementations, and there is a commitment by multiple people on imap4.
In addition, no single TLS "single-port" proposal that I've seen so far
(including the much appreciated murray internet draft) addresses the issue
of how current firewalls secure ports. The 443 for https has been
acknowledged as a port for http secured with SSL, and if someone inside a
firewall makes a connection out through 443 it is usually allowed (though
it might have to request as per ssl-tunnelling). See the SSL-Talk FAQ
section on "using proxies, gateways and firewalls with ssl" at
http://www.consensus.com/security/ssl-talk-sec03.html for some some
discussion on this.
In summary, my position is that there are a number of ports that are
already assigned that need cleanup, and there are at least 2 additional
ones (ftp and imap4) that have multiple people wanting to ship
interoperable products *NOW*. I've also had enough people speak in the last
week about telnet that I'll probably add that to the list. As regards to
irc, rsh, etc. I've had people say that they are doing them, but as I've
only heard of one implementation of each, thus I'm not going to request
those ports.
I agree that this is not a long term solution, and I do not desire to
willy-nilly double the port numbers of every protocol. But there is
precedent of assignment of 1024 port numbers to proprietary applications,
and as there is enough immediate need so that people can have working
interoperable applications in the short term, I think we should go for it.
Thus, unless there are objections by the WG chair or Area Director, I still
plan on submitting the change requests and the 2 (or 3 if I add telnet)
additional requests to the IANA. I will add the information to the request
that one of the reasons driving these requests is issues of current
firewalls, and that this is not a long term solution. If granted, these
ports will be documented in the appendix of the TLS 1.0 draft.
I am willing to commit to a requirements document for TLS 1.1 to address
this issue in the long term. As the post-TLS 1.0 process needs to be more
formal with requirements drafts first, this is one of a couple requirements
documents that we need to do.
Meanwhile, I don't want to hold back implementors with a real need now to
interoperate with SSL 3.0 or TLS 1.0.
..Christopher Allen Consensus Development Corporation..
.. ChristopherA@consensus.com 1563 Solano Avenue #355..
.. Berkeley, CA 94707-2116..
..Home of "SSL Plus: o510/559-1500 f510/559-1505..
.. SSL 3.0 Integration Suite(tm)" http://www.consensus.com/SSLPlus/ ..
I still don't see why the IANA should get involved with a short term
fix that is not necessarily consistent with the long term direction.
Just issue an Internet Draft with all the port number assignments you want,
and the implementors can use it today.
I assume that the WG Chairman is following this discussion, and hope
that the Area Director is too. Whatever they decide, after considering
the issues, is fine with me.
Text item:
The discussion so far is all based on the assumption that the protocols
that want to be enhanced with TLS/SSL all have current port assignments
below 1024.
We are working on securing H.323 (A/V Conferencing) with TLS/SSL, and
will need port assignments for the SSL-enhanced protocol(s), but I
expect them to be Registered Ports above 1024.
BTW (as per my previous posting on the subject), the same port can be
used for secure &amp; non-secure versions of a protocol as long as:
a) there is a negotiation/discovery mechansim outside the protocol to
determine the use of security, or
b) the implementation can deterministically differentiate any
application message from the ClientHandshake message.
Method b) is fraught with difficulty, including the fact that the
application will be at the mercy of how the Operating System implements
TLS/SSL, since there would have to be collusion between the two when the
application detects the ClientHello (or the TLS/SSL layer does not
detects ClientHello - depending on who sees the message first).
An Operating System may not be willing to trust the implied assertion by
an application that its protocol can be differentiated....who knows
where a false assertion would take it....
John
Text item: External Message Header
The following mail header is for administrative use
and may be ignored unless there are problems.
***IF THERE ARE PROBLEMS SAVE THESE HEADERS***.
Precedence: list
Resent-Sender: ietf-tls-request@w3.org
Sender: ietf-tls-request@w3.org
X-Loop: ietf-tls@w3.org
X-Mailing-List: ietf-tls@w3.org archive/latest/564
Resent-From: ietf-tls@w3.org
X-List-URL: http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/ietf-tls
Subject: Moving Forward with Regularizing Port Numbers
From: Christopher Allen ChristopherA@consensus.com
Date: Thu, 6 Feb 1997 03:36:53 -0800
Organization: Consensus Development Corporation http://www.consensus.com/
Mime-Version: 1.0
Message-Id: v0310140baf1f6d705895@dynamic-addr-192.consensus.com
Resent-Message-Id: 199702061141.GAA17104@www19.w3.org
Resent-Date: Thu, 6 Feb 1997 06:41:19 -0500
Received: by www19.w3.org (8.6.12/8.6.12) id GAA17104; Thu, 6 Feb 1997 06:41:19
-0500
(8.8.4/8.7.3) with SMTP id EAA29296; Thu, 6 Feb 1997 04:07:49 -0800 (PST)
-0800 (PST)
Return-Path: ietf-tls-request@w3.org
I thought you were in favor of ONE port.
I am a short term pragmatist, and a long term idealist. I believe that the
best resolution is to fix the existing assignments, add a minimal number of
new ports so people can interoperate now, admit and recognize the long term
problem, and design a better solution as soon as we can.
BTW, I encourage any further discussion on single port/port mapping
solutions to move over *exclusively* to the TLS Working Group list, as this
is obviously a problem that requires some work to be able to complete.
The discussion list for IETF-TLS Working Group is at IETF-TLS@W3.ORG . You
subscribe and unsubscribe by sending to IETF-TLS-REQUEST@W3.ORG with
subscribe or unsubscribe in the SUBJECT of the message. Archives of the
list are at http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/ietf-tls .
I wanted to include the SSL-Talk list subscribers in the general context of
the port assignments, as that list is more heavily weighed with actual
implementors than the TLS list is (i.e. they care more about what the final
assignments will be as they want to ship product).
..Christopher Allen Consensus Development Corporation..
.. ChristopherA@consensus.com 1563 Solano Avenue #355..
.. Berkeley, CA 94707-2116..
..Home of "SSL Plus: o510/559-1500 f510/559-1505..
.. SSL 3.0 Integration Suite(tm)" http://www.consensus.com/SSLPlus/ ..
