Comments are from Top of Document to Bottom
1. Web Accessibility is a Social Issue
Web Accessibility is Essential for Equal Opportunity
Therefore, an accessible Web is a requirement for equal opportunities
in may areas.
CHG: "requiremet" to "essential" to reflect the change in the title
2. The Web is an opportunity for unprecedented access to information
for people with disabilities.
Once that same information is available and accessible on the Web, it
becomes exponentially users for many people with disabilities to use.
Incomplete sentence.
CHG: What becomes expontially here "important'?
3. same paragraph
Additionally, providing Web information that is accessible to people
with all different types of disabilities is much easier and less
expensive then developing and distributing multiple alternative
formats
CHG: "then" should be "than", I think. Then is time based, isn't it?
4. People with disabilities can actively participate and provide
content for the Web.
When Web development software ("authoring tool") is accessible,
people with disabilities can more easily develop Web sites.
CHG: Can we expand this just a little.
i.e. can we highlight expanding employment opportunities for
under-served groups? Or highlight enhancing the field allowing
qualified people to compete for jobs. Possibly mentioning that not
all disabilities occur at birth. Often, disability occurs
mid-career. Rather than retiring a qualified employee, accessible
tools would allow a qualified employee to continue to compete in the
work place.
5. Under "Barriers to Use"
That is, some people do not have the financial means to afford
[decent], regular [reliable] access to the Web, or the social
environment that encourages Web use.
CHG: "decent" - please explain relationship to "afford". Can we use
reliable instead of regular.
6. Scope
[In addition, since the benefits of accessible design also extend to
other groups affected by the digital divide and other limiting
situations, Web accessibility also supports improved access and
social inclusion for many other groups, including:]
CHG: "the digital divide" to "these" to avoid unnecessary overuse of
the phrase (counter proposal to Blossom's #3 - can over use barriers,
too)
[In addition, since the benefits of accessible design also extend to
other groups affected by these and other limiting situations, Web
accessibility also supports improved access and social inclusion for
many other groups, including:]
7. "Scope" list of other groups, and "Web Accessibility Benefits Other Groups"
The last section of this page, "[@@Web Accessibility Benefits Other
Groups]" provides examples of how Web accessibility benefits these
other groups.
Suggestion: Should have some continuity in groups between the two sections.
The list in the "Scope" section breaks out what is combined in the
headers of the other section. If it is combined in one section, it
probably should be combined in the other.
8. ALSO Note: Andrew mentioned last week that we were missing some
people in the "Scope" section. I don't recall but I think he listed
about 3 different people/groups.
9. Web Accessibility Benefits More Than People with Disabilities
While the main focus of Web accessibilty is people with disabilities,
accessibility also benefits people without disabilities, including
those in groups disadvantaged by the digital divide.
Alternate wording:
While the main focus of Web accessibilty is people with disabilities,
accessibility also benefits people without disabilities whether or
not they disadvantaged by the digital divide.
Smoother, more connected to document flow. This also takes care of my
issue with the placement of "digital divide" at this location. It was
sort of dangling out in space because there was no text in the
section about the digital divide. (See #8 Andrews comments.) The new
text bridges previous paragraphs with this section a little better.
10. Access for Older People
For example, many people with age-related visual deterioration
benefit from being able to use a site they are used to using and
progressively increasing the text size (as opposed to using a very
differently designed text-only site or a screen reader).
CHG: For example, many people with age-related visual deterioration
benefit from being able to use a site they have been using and
progressively increasing the text size (as opposed to using a very
differently designed text-only site or a screen reader).
11. Access for People with Low Literacy and Speakers of Other Languages
Accessible Web sites can benefit people with low literacy levels and
people who are not fluent in the language of the Web page.
Specifically, many of the aspects of Web accessibility for people
with cognitive disabilities help people with low literacy or language
understanding, including clear and simple language, consistent design
and navigation, and supplemental illustrations. Also accessible sites
can be read by screen readers (for people who are blind) and people
who cannot read can also benefit from listening to sites.
CHG:
Accessible Web sites can benefit people with low literacy levels and
people who are not fluent in the language of the Web page.
Specifically, aspects of Web accessibility such as clear and simple
language, consistent design and navigation, and supplemental
illustrations used for people with cognitive disabilities also help
people with low literacy or language understanding. In addition,
screen readers can read accessible sites for people who are blind and
people who cannot read can also benefit from listening to sites.
12. Access for People with Low Bandwidth Connections to the Internet
and Older Technologies
CHG: copy edit??
Proper use of parens??? (for example, mobile phone or
personal data assistant (PDA))
Remove double period at the end of the first paragraph.
13. NOTES and possible references: misc
The European Commission, in their Green Paper "Promoting a European
Framework for Corporate Social Responsibility " (July 2001), define
it as a "concept whereby companies integrate social and environmental
concerns in their business operations and in their interaction with
their stakeholders on a voluntary basis."
Comment: I like this quote and think that it is worth including.
The others have stats but I don't like the one that is a link to
buying the report. The advertisement to buy the report is what
bothers me not the quote.
MSU: Advancing Knowledge. Transforming Lives.
Libraries, Computing &amp; Technology: Connecting People and Information
Have a Productive Day!
Charmane K. Corcoran
Information &amp; Project Principal
Michigan State University
Client Advocacy Office
316A Computer Center
East Lansing MI 48824
E-mail:corcora1@msu.edu
Direct/Vmail - 517/355-4500 Ext. 244
HmPg:http://www.msu.edu/~corcora1/
The way I've identified barriers to web use:
Accessibility for All we seek authoring universal design practices to
improve accessibility for everyone. This includes those seeking information
under limitations:
* situational (phone browser, low-bandwidth connection, no graphics)
* environmental (too bright, too dark, too noisy, too shakey)
* physical (visual, aural, or motor).
[modified from: http://www.hbingham.com/#accessbl ]
5. Under "Barriers to Use"
That is, some people do not have the financial means to afford [decent],
regular [reliable] access to the Web, or the social environment that
encourages Web use.
CHG: ... Can we use reliable instead of regular.
SLH: i think the main focus here is on people who do not have any
Internet access in their home - so they have limited access from school
or work or library or such - so i think that is more like regular than
reliable...
