Final Version with Rigo's suggested changes -- 2 weeks to review (Sept. 17)
Identity Definitions in the P3P Specification
In privacy regulations, guidelines and papers about privacy a variety
of terms are used to describe data that identifies an individual to
varying degrees.
The European Union Directive defines "an identifiable person" as "one
who can be identified, directly or indirectly, in particular by
reference to an identification number or to one or more factors
specific to his physical, physiological, mental, economic, cultural
or social identity." The Directive also states that in determining
whether a person is identifiable "account should be taken of all the
means likely reasonably to be used either by the controller or by any
other person to identify the said person; whereas the principles of
protection shall not apply to data rendered anonymous in such a way
that the data subject is no longer identifiable."
In Australia, "personal information" is information about an
individual who can be identified, or whose identity could be
reasonably ascertained." In Canada "personal information" means
information about an "identifiable" individual. In the United States,
different sectors have different standards for identifiability of
data. Similarly, in many other policy documents, terms such as
"personally identifiable information (PII)" are often not defined or
the cause for heated debate.
The P3P Specification Working Group has taken the view point that
most information referring to an individual is "identifiable" in some
way. As with other important areas of the specification, the goal of
the working group was to allow for a wide variety of understandings
of identity in order to allow data collectors to best express their
policy and users to make choices based on a definition of identity
information that is important to them. (1)
"Identified" Data
The most common term in the specification is "identified data" and
focuses on whether a service knows the data subject's identity.
"Identified data" is information that in a record or profile and can
reasonably be tied to an individual. Admittedly, this is a somewhat
subjective standard. For example, a data collector storing Internet
Protocol (IP) addresses (which can be created dynamically or could
be static and therefore tied to a particular computer used by a
single individual) should consider the IP address "identified data"
only when this data is added to the record or profile of a specific
individual. In the more common case, where data collectors use IP
addressing information in the aggregate or make no attempt to tie the
IP address to a specified individual or computer over a long period
of time, IP addresses are not considered identified even though it is
possible for someone (eg, law enforcement agents with proper subpoena
powers) to identify the individual based on the stored data.
As mentioned above, in the P3P context, any data that can be used
reasonably by a data controller or any other person to identify an
individual is considered to be identifiable data. The P3P
specification uses the term "identified" to describe a subset of this
data that can be reasonably be used by a data collector *without
assistance from other parties* to identify an individual.
"Non-Identifiable" and "Linked" Data
The working group also felt that data collectors should be able
acknowledge when they make specific attempts to anonymize information.
The term "non-identifiable" data refers to efforts made specifically
to de-identify data. For example, a data collector collecting and
storing IP addresses but not using them should NOT call this data
"non-identifiable" even in the common case where they have no plans
to identify an actual individual or computer. However, if a Web site
collects IP addresses, but actively deletes all but the last four
digits of this information in order to determine short term use, but
insure that a particular individual or computer cannot be
consistently identified, then the data collector can and should call
this information "non-identifiable." Also, non-identifiable can be
used in cases where no information is being collected at all. Since
most Web servers are designed to keep Web logs for maintenance, this
would most likely mean that the data collector has taken specific
efforts to ensure the anonymity of users.
Under the above definitions, a lot of information could be
"identifiable" (not specifically made anonymous), but not
"identified" (reasonably able to be tied to an individual or
computer).
Similarly, the term "linked" refers to how information is being used
in connection with a cookie. All data in a cookie or linked to a
particular user must be disclosed in the cookie's policy. Using the
terminology above, if the data collector collects "identifiable"
information about the user it is generally "linked" data. For
example, if the data collector stores a login name in a file
associated with a persistent cookie and the login name is linked to
personal data, the cookie is clearly "linked."
In less clear cut example, if the data collector ties the cookie to a
specific order id in a flat file and that order id is tied to
personal information in a related file, the cookie would be linked to
all of the relational data unless specific precautions have been
taken to ensure that a data operator with access to the relational
data cannot access the flat cookie data and vice versa.
In other words, a data collector must: collect no personal
information; take active steps to make sure that information
referring to a specific individual cannot be identified; or must use
the "linked" tag.
Identifiers
The Working Group decided against an identified or identifiable label
for particular types of data. However, user agent implementers have
the option of assigning these or other labels themselves and building
user interfaces that allow users to make decisions about web sites on
the basis of how they collect and use certain types of data.
The Working Group felt that different user agent implementations
could be created to focus on different concerns around data type.
Therefore, the working group enabled the creation of a robust data
schema including broad categories of information that may be
considered sensitive by certain user groups. The Working Group hopes
that a diverse set of user agents will be created to allow users the
ability to make identity decisions based on specific collections and
types of collects if they desire to do so. For example, a user agent
could allow users to opt to be prompted when medical or financial
identifier is being collected, independent of how that information is
being used.
(1) More information on the debate and the definitions can be found
in Lorrie Faith Cranor's book Web Privacy with P3P, O'Reilly, 2002.
Ari Schwartz
Associate Director
Center for Democracy and Technology
1634 I Street NW, Suite 1100
Washington, DC 20006
202 637 9800
ari@cdt.org
Ari Schwartz
Associate Director
Center for Democracy and Technology
1634 I Street NW, Suite 1100
Washington, DC 20006
202 637 9800
ari@cdt.org
Two small issues with this latest draft:
should be
"Identified data" is information in a record or profile that can
reasonably be
There is no "linked" tag... how about "In other words, a data collector
that uses cookies must.... or must disclose all linked data in a P3P
policy associated with a cookie."
Good points.
Ari
