Mike Paciello notes:
"The Assistive Devices Industry Association (ADIA) of Canada:
Officially, this is not a home page -- yet. However, the Assistive Devices
Industry Association of Canada provides an incredibly useful service through
this web page by providing a complete listing of all disability related
conferences. "
It does not list W3C or XML conferences. They haven't made the
accessibility-awareness of this group I guess. Someday?
It has contact info, including URLs, but not deadlines for submissions.
Regards/Harvey Bingham
Harvey,
I am the person responsible for maintaining CanADIA's Calendar of Events in
Disability, Rehabilitation and Assistive Technology (the information is
provided to me by the Assistive Devices Industry Office of the Government
of Canada). As such, I am interested in the comments made by Mike and you.
It isn't completely clear from your message which statements are
attributable to Mike and which are yours, but I assume the first two
paragraphs are his and the last yours.
I have a few questions:
1. Where did Mike cite the CanADIA conference listing? Is it in his soon to
be published book? (If he did, I am not unhappy... just curious)
2. Do you know what is meant by "Officially, this is not a home page --
yet." (It was never intended to be a "home page". It is a resource in a
larger CanADIA website.)
3. Why would W3C or XML conferences appear on the CanADIA list? To the
best of my knowledge, no W3C or XML conference has been promoted as being
an "Event in Disability, Rehabilitation and Assistive Technology". If the
WAI decides to do a conference on Web Accessibility, it will be on the list
immediately.
Cheers!
Chuck
Starling Access Services
"Access A World Of Possibility"
e-mail: info@starlingweb.com
URL: http://www.starlingweb.com
Chuck:
I am furiously finishing up on my book (incorporating edits) and I need to
get clarification on the purpose and functin of ADIA. Should I mention it
in my book? If so, can you describe it's role and purpose....briefly.
If it is part of a large web site, perhaps I should site that instead? Let
me know.
Thanks,
Mike
Hi Mike,
CanADIA, or the Assistive Devices Industry Association of Canada, is an
trade association representing the interests of manufacturers and
developers of assistive devices based in Canada. The devices can be
high-tech, low-tech or anything in between. For its members, CanADIA does
national and international promotion, distribution of strategic business
information, identification of partnership opportunities, and lobbying of
governments to improve or change regulations that negatively impact on our
industry sector and ultimately our customers (i.e. persons with
disabilities). The CanADIA Website (although it is quite accessible) is
not really aimed at consumers or the community but is intended as an
information resource for the industry. The URI is
For our members and the general public, we do maintain the Calendar of
Events in Disability, Rehabilitation and Assistive Technology. It can be
found at http://www.starlingweb.com/adp/as00015e.htm
Hope this helps,
Regards,
Chuck
President,
Starling Accesses Services
Secretary,
Assistive Devices Industry Association of Canada
