Now that my mind is starting to kick over and fire on more than two
cylinders...
Further to the ATIA discussion this morning: I think it is critical that
the AT industry in general is a target for our education and outreach
efforts. One way of reaching a significant portion of that very diverse
group is through their industry associations. I am secretary (and web
master) of the Assistive Devices Industry Association of Canada (CanADIA)
and I have immediate plans to write an article (with appropriate links)
about the WAI working groups. I may even be able to get something into the
upcoming newsletter from Industry Canada's Assistive Devices Industry
Office (which hits about 200 AT related companies or organizations).
What I would like, from Jon or Judy (or anybody more familiar with DOM and
XML than I) is some concise and appropriate wording that will explain the
importance of these technologies to developers.
By the way, two members of CanADIA are also on the board of directors of
the ATIA so I also have some good contacts into that bunch.
Regards,
Chuck Letourneau
Starling Access Services
"Access A World Of Possibility"
e-mail: info@starlingweb.com
URL: http://www.starlingweb.com
Please could whoever responds to Chuck copy me into that, since I have
useful contacts with UK and US companies.
Regards,
Peter.
Peter Bosher,
www.soundlinks.com/
snail://
SoundLinks Limited,
43 Broadlands Avenue,
Chesham,
Bucks.
HP5 1AL
England.
Great. I will try to help. When do you need the information?
Judy how can I coordinate this with you?
Jon
Jon Gunderson, Ph.D., ATP
Coordinator of Assistive Communication and Information Technology
Division of Rehabilitation - Education Services
University of Illinois at Urbana/Champaign
1207 S. Oak Street
Champaign, IL 61820
Voice: 217-244-5870
E-mail: jongund@uiuc.edu
WWW:http://www.staff.uiuc.edu/~jongund
When do I need the information? The stock answer is "under my tree and
wrapped for Christmas", but since that is only a few snoozes away I won't
push you. If the first week of January has come and gone before I see
anything, I will "ping" you (as Judy is prone to say grin ).
Cheers!
Chuck
Starling Access Services
"Access A World Of Possibility"
e-mail: info@starlingweb.com
URL: http://www.starlingweb.com
