I've updated this to close the action I had from the last meeting
recorded in the IRC logs at
RDF/XML Syntax Working Draft - Internal Draft V1.16
However, this *really* should be on w3.org
I do want to point it out to the XML Schema Interest Group in this
form, I assume it is OK to do so at this address.
Dave
Dave Beckett said:
Oops! I meant to say: start addressing the action. I need to
wordsmith a full introduction.
Dave
editorial: in the references sections,
please use titles, not addresses, as link text
cf
Message-ID: 38A33C6C.4B3341DB@w3.org
Date: Thu, 10 Feb 2000 16:32:12 -0600
From: Dan Connolly connolly@w3.org
Subject: please use titles, not addresses, as link text
Dan Connolly, W3C http://www.w3.org/People/Connolly/
mobile: mailto:connolly+pager@w3.org?subject=pls%20call%20+1-...
Dan Connolly said:
I normally do that myself, but I saw it in some other WD (I forget
which) so thought it was the style.
Zapped.
Note to document writers, the references for W3C pubs seem to be
Publication Rules
(Member only) http://www.w3.org/Guide/pubrules
and
How to Write a W3C Technical Report
(Public) http://www.w3.org/Guide/Reports
Dave
Some style issues:
- I think all references to the WG should be deleted, except as a
non-normative appendix which may be a list of names of those who have
contributed.
(e.g. delete 1st para of section 3, and the TODO item)
- I think the original grammar should be a link not a quotation.
- I think section 3 should be a non-normative appendix, leaving the XML
Infoset approach as normative. (Obviously at the moment everything is
non-normative!)
A typo:
In the table in section 3
rdf:parseType="Literal\"" should read
rdf:parseType=\"Literal\""
Jeremy
Jeremy Carroll said:
I was actioned to make a new version intended to be a group working
draft; and this is part of the way to that. There are enough
disclaimers to note the status. The previous version was the private
document with no W3C-style.
At some point the W3C style and WG references have to be added; this
is that point.
I also think it is important to link to the issues that caused the
changes, and I still intend to record that.
There is no need to make the latter changes at this stage since it is not
even an RDF Core WG working draft and even if it was, would not be
normative. This is a suggested analysis, which I will be adding to.
rdf:parseType="Literal\"" should read
rdf:parseType=\"Literal\""
Fixed, also for the Resource case.
Dave
At the teleconference, I got the impression that Dave was after feedback, so
here's some more :-).
I do not believe that we have discussed the following issues (although I
have mentioned some privately to Dave). As such, it is appropriate that they
are not in the current WD; but I would hope they would be addressed before
the next WD.
1: Whitespace
M&amp;S does not describe how to process whitespace in RDF/XML. (Well it does,
but what it says doesn't work).
The grammar in the WD carries that error too.
I have two possible fixes:
a: extend the grammar with an explicit whitespace production
b: add text adequately capturing the whitespace rules.
e.g. "Whitespace is significant in attribute values, where XML whitespace
processing applies, and within literal values. Elsewhere it is ignored."
An example of (a) is the ARP grammar. I prefer (b) for the spec.
2: XML Attributes
M&amp;S and the new WD do not specify that attributes whose name starts in
[xX][mM][lL] are discarded when RDF processing, (although they may impact
XML processing, e.g. xml:lang, xml:space,
xml:someFutureThatHasNotBeenThoughtOf). Again, the grammar can be modified
to capture this, or text added. Again I prefer text in a specification, and
modifying the grammar in an implementation.
3: "(can be empty)"
This phrase occurs a couple of times and should be emphasised in the
supporting text, since XML does not allow this, i.e. the XML Infoset of the
document is missing the supposed text string rather than having an empty
text string as suggested by the grammar. Again, elegance and clarity of
exposition in my mind takes priority over having an exact correspondence
between the Infoset and the grammar.
Jeremy
Jeremy Carroll said:
As such, I'll not respond to all of these now while I concentrate on
getting out something to review.
However:
This was easy to fix by replacing the single place that it is used
with the two alternatives - no element content and literal element content
Done as of
version 1.21
Dave
