As I read the list - I am struck with how much text is flowing. I
find myself wanting to skim at times - and I am a chair. How about
the rest of the listmembers.
Now skimming would not be a problem, - except for the fact that there
are good ideas and bits buried in the long emails. I fear that these
will be lost - (even by those who read the emails) - since no one wants
to go back and reread everything to find the good points again.
Secondly, it appears to me that there are some areas of agreement that
keep getting swept aside in the discussions about what is not agreed on
(or understood).
Thirdly - we seem to be discussing abstract concepts more than specific
recommendations. It is very hard for the editors to put the thoughts
into words if not words or specific suggestions are made.
I would like to make a few suggestions.
1 - Let's try to have more specific proposals - rather than just
discussions of concepts. Note that I did not restrict discussion to
proposals. We need the concept discussions as well. But we need to know
what people are proposing by their discussion. This is not always
clear.
2 - Let's have people put their key points at the top of their email --
then proceed with the rationale. I know there is some danger that
people won?t read the rationale... but it is no greater than the danger
of people not reading the long text at all -- or losing the nuggets
afterward. An alternative would be to summarize what you are
proposing at the end. AGAIN -- please focus on what you are
proposing -- not just summarizing what you don?t think.
3 - Try to start with what you think you agree on -- the common ground.
Then focus on what you see as differences. And look for ways to try to
come together. (I know this can be hazardous at times. No good deed
seems to go unpunished. But try. And try to be gentle with each
other.)
Thanks much
Gregg Van
Further to Gregg's suggestions:
Before raising an issue or criticizing the guidelines, I would suggest
attempting to answer the following questions and including, so far as
possible, these answers in your e-mail message:
1. Precisely what is the problem or concern?
2. What parts of the working group's deliverables are affected by it?
Try to be specific regarding guidelines, checkpoints, the
conformance scheme, the techniques, etc.
3. Why is there a problem and what evidence is available to show that
it exists. If there isn't any evidence or cogent argument that
comes to mind, what steps should the working group take to
determine whether there is an issue that needs to be addressed?
4. What are the options for addressing the problem or issues? At the
very least, try to specify what, in your view, would constitute a
solution. If possible, make a specific proposal (e.g., the creation
of a new checkpoint, a change to the success criteria, a
reorganisation of the documents along particular lines, etc.).
Proposals for specific wording are of particular benefit to the
editors and are, therefore, most welcome.
It is of course legitimate to raise issues without addressing
these questions. However, by taking them into account you can
significantly enhance the effectiveness of your contribution in
enabling the working group to improve and refine its deliverables, and
to achieve the mandate set forth in its Charter.
Does Gregg and Jason's approach makes sense, even though it is logical?
The fact is that to construct a piece of art, one does not go through this
process.
Not everything is codified yet, and the reductionist approach does not suit
all goals.
We have no satisfactory way to describe a tree (say) via this route.
It works, but other ways work at least as well.
It really is time for an 'as well as' consideration.
jonathan chetwynd
IT teacher (LDD)
j.chetwynd@btinternet.com
on the web"
