Dear W3 DOM members,
I write to you as the author of the DOM Java binding package. I plan to make
a Debian package of DOM Java binding and I would like your authorization and
some details.
What is Debian?
Debian is a specific *distribution* of the Linux operating system. It
is a set of programs, based on the same policy, regarding placement
of files, etc, which can be installed without compiling anything. My
personal opinion is that Debian is the best Linux distribution available
and certainly the easiest to manage, thanks to its packaging system. You
can have more information at http://www.debian.org/ .
What is a Debian package?
A package is a binary archive of a program (or a closely related group
of programs) which owners of a Debian system can install or remove
easily, by one command. Files in the package are arranged according to
the Debian policy, so the user is certain to find the documentation in
/usr/doc/lib-dom-java, the configuration files in /etc and so on.
Packages are made by volunteers like me which take an existing
program, patch it if necessary and describes the rules that make it
"Debian-compliant".
What do I need?
I would like your authorization, and please, if you say yes,
keep me informed of future versions so I can update the package.
I would like to know, in the case of agreement, in which section
to put the package. We (Debian) have a "main" section where
all the software which meet the Debian Free Software Guidelines
http://www.debian.org/social_contract#guidelines go. A "non-free"
section is available for the programs which, in one way or the other,
fail to meet these requirements but can still be distributed, at least via
the Internet.
I am not sure we can put the Java bindings in "main". The licence
http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-DOM-Level-1/copyright-notice.html says
"No right to create modifications or derivatives is granted pursuant
to this license." which seems to exclude freedom to modify. I understand
that DOM is intended to be normative and therefore not modified at will,
and that the Java bindings are not a real program but more a formal
specification but it still bothers me. For instance, the Debian packaging
itself is a modification, no? Any advice?
Yours,
Stephane Bortzmeyer bortzmeyer@debian.org
On Friday 5 November 1999, at 15 h 0, the keyboard of Stephane Bortzmeyer
OK, Mark Wielaard mark@klomp.org remarked that W3C software is covered by a different licence, http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/copyright-software.html (thanks for your FAQ about licensing, BTW), and therefore is free. So, unless I misundesrtood the above licence, the Java bindings to DOM will be in our "main" section.
That's right. Our W3C softwares are covered by :
and our documents are covered by :
Sorry, but the Java binding are part of the DOM Level 1 specification.
They are
covered by our document copyright. You can't modify them in any way.
Feel free
to package them as long as you don't modify them.
Philippe.
Philippe Le Hegaret - http://www.w3.org/People/LeHegaret/
World Wide Web Consortium (W3C), DOM Activity Lead
Take Me Out Of The List
make
and
The problem here may be multiple definitions of the word "package", and
multiple packages in a single application... Let's try a concrete example:
IBM's XML4J parser, which currently includes two implementations of the
DOM.
The DOM API Interfaces themselves (Node.java and so on) are included
un-altered as the org.w3c.dom package.
The implementations live in their own packages (eg com.ibm.xml.dom). They
reference the DOM APIs, and are operated primarily in terms of the DOM
APIs, but their code is kept distinct from the W3C's code. They may provide
additional functions, or implement additional interfaces, as well.
All these packages wind up in a single jar-file when IBM distributes the
compiler. But by keeping the packages distinct, they maintain a clear line
between which features are defined by the DOM and which are custom
additions. Doing so ensures that if this code is linked with other
DOM-based code, compiled seperately with another copy of org.w3c.dom,
everything will connect up properly. Even without the copyright issue, that
is a Darned Good Reason to do it this way.
Joe Kesselman / IBM Research
