I've created 2 test cases for this issue
below
They test failure for
error001.rdf rdf:aboutEach
error002.rdf rdf:aboutEachPrefix
I'll also add these to the tests for illegal names in the tests
for rdfms-rdf-names-use
Dave
These look good to me Dave. The only nit I have is the use of the dc as it
makes the test a little more complex and doesn't seem necessary.
Please can someone else look these over and we will aim to approve this week.
Brian
Brian McBride said:
The examples were based on one in RDF M&amp;S section 3.3
since I never used aboutEach*, I picked something from there :)
Dave
it
week.
well, I was looking for (but didn't find) the .nt files
one could of course argue here, but there are certainly triples
in those files, and I think we should say which ones
no? Jan?
I think for error001.nt there are 2 triples
http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#Bag .
http://example.org/node2 .
(remark the .rdf which is OK, but maybe avoid extensions)
and for error002.nt only 1 triple
http://example.org/node http://example.org/property "foo" .
Jos
As an error case, there are no triples.
Right?
Jan said about this in the manifest form:
negative parser test (input: bad .rdf file)
and this is a negative parser test
Dave
It's a toss-up here; the files certainly contain bits of syntax which
are no longer valid, so we've got two choices:
1. RDF documents containing abouteach and abouteachprefix are in error,
and are illegal. (This is what Dave's examples do).
2. Constructions containing abouteach or AEP are rendered impotent, but
the files are otherwise parsed as-is, and a warning omitted. In this
case, those tests should be renamed, Jos' triples confirmed as the
results of them, and we flag the tests as raising a warning in each
case.
The "be liberal in what you accept" would lead to answer 2; however, the
syntax document now describes an RDF without the appropriate
productions, so perhaps answer 1 is correct (and maybe the grammar needs
error productions for these?)
jan
jan grant, ILRT, University of Bristol. http://www.ilrt.bris.ac.uk/
It's a sad fact that the word "semantics" seems to have lost all meaning.
fair enough
I was under the impression to have seen error001.nt
before, but that's an error
Jos
