Some time ago Ian Jacobs had proposed a generalized set of accessibility
guidelines that were separate from WCAG UAAG etc.
Since there is no group or guidelines at that level he later collapsed those
into WCAG 2.0 and proposed a reorg.
This document also approaches the guidelines from a quite different
direction as well.
I have been trying to figure out a way to incorporate this into our
discussion and drafts but it is so different I havent been able.
Apologies to Ian for holding on to it so long as I tried.
As you will see it's is quite different from organization to what
constitutes guidelines. It doesn't meet many of our requirements but it
shouldn't be taken as a complete set of guidelines -- but rather a
collection of ideas we may find useful in different ways.
Now that we have cleaned up our draft a bit it is a good time to look at
this for ideas
Please keep in mind that this is a mock-up, intended primarily to convey a
particular organization.
[2] http://www.w3.org/2003/11/12-ij-wcag20.html
Gregg
Gregg C Vanderheiden Ph.D.
Professor - Ind. Engr. &amp; BioMed Engr.
Director - Trace R &amp; D Center
University of Wisconsin-Madison
Hi Gregg,
Thanks for forwarding this to the WG. Just a quick
note on the proposal: my "crazy" idea was that by
incorporating XAG requirements into WCAG, the WCAG
WG might be able to finish WCAG 2.0 more quickly.
I hope that the proposal is helpful.
Thank you,
_ Ian
Ian Jacobs (ij@w3.org) http://www.w3.org/People/Jacobs
XAG could become a Techniques Document for WCAG 2.0....
Like HTML, CSS, etc. techniques.
What do you think about this proposal?
Roberto Scano
IWA/HWG
convey a
Hi Gregg,
Thanks for forwarding this to the WG. Just a quick
note on the proposal: my "crazy" idea was that by
incorporating XAG requirements into WCAG, the WCAG
WG might be able to finish WCAG 2.0 more quickly.
I hope that the proposal is helpful.
Thank you,
_ Ian
Ian Jacobs (ij@w3.org) http://www.w3.org/People/Jacobs
I think XAG requirements deserve to be at the same level
as WCAG requirements.
In the proposal linked below, the basic idea is that
WCAG 2.0 would say "To build accessible content, you start
with a format that supports accessibility." What defines
"an accessible format"? Another series of requirements that
are already well-known to the WAI Community:
* if the format supports audio, it must also support
the ability to associate a synchronized transcript.
* if the format supports images, it must also support
text equivalents,
And so forth. These are some of the XAG requirements today.
They themselves have techniques associated with them:
* What's a good way to allow authors to provide alternatives?
The "alt" approach of HTML or the "switch" element of SMIL?
What are the advantages of each approach?
_ Ian
Ian Jacobs (ij@w3.org) http://www.w3.org/People/Jacobs
I agree with Ian. These need to be at the same level. If the languages and
data formats do not provide support for storing the information needed
later when developing content it is hard to make the content accessible.
Marja
My vote is with Ian too on this- it is more then techniques to conform
to WCAG. If we want to change WCAG to be more like XAG however....
All the best
Lisa Seeman
Visit us at the UB Access website
UB Access - Moving internet accessibility
From: w3c-wai-gl-request@w3.org
[mailto:w3c-wai-gl-request@w3.org] On Behalf Of Ian B. Jacobs
Sent: Saturday, March 27, 2004 4:28 PM
Subject: Re: FW: Mock-up of merged WCAG 2.0 and XAG
Another vote for Ian's proposal - can we make an agenda item of this for
this or next Thursday? I believe that Ian might just be correct in
thinking that this might speed up and simplify the WCAG 2.0 timeline.
Cheers,
-Kerstin
From: w3c-wai-gl-request@w3.org
[mailto:w3c-wai-gl-request@w3.org] On Behalf Of Ian B. Jacobs
Sent: Saturday, March 27, 2004 4:28 PM
Subject: Re: FW: Mock-up of merged WCAG 2.0 and XAG
I'm happy to attend a call.
I'd like to make one more "promotional" comment: When I have
read WCAG 2.0 drafts over the past year, I have noted a struggle
to include requirements such this one in the 11 March 2004
draft [1]:
"The following can be derived programmatically (for example,
through a markup or data model) from the content without
requiring user interpretation of presentation. ...
hierarchical relationships such as paragraphs and lists...
emphasis on specific words..."
There are tons of format specifications out there. They don't
all include markup for emphasis or lists, nor should they.
I don't believe it will help authors to say "Use emphasis"
if they are using a format specification that does not
include markup for emphasis!
Hence, the proposal suggests that WCAG 2.0 say the following:
a) Authors should use accessible format specifications
and use them as follows to create accessible content.
b) To make an accessible format specification, do the
following:
i) If it includes audio, do the following..
ii) If it includes video, do the following..
iii) If it's a basic document language, use something
in the HTML family.
And do forth.
Of course, authors will not be able to influence very often the
design of "accessible formats"; this is why I think XAG is so
important and why I would like to see it get done as quickly.
Why do I think this model will speed up work? I think it's
much easier to start with a statement like "Assume the author is using a
format that supports accessibility" and to work from
there. The first requirement that comes to mind is "Authors
must use the accessibility features of the format; see
part two of this document where those are discussed."
Then, the rest of "Part One" of WCAG can focus on HOW
authors use those features to create accessible content,
e.g., by building clear navigation, by using simple language,
etc.
Thanks for reading the proposal,
_ Ian
[1]
Ian Jacobs (ij@w3.org) http://www.w3.org/People/Jacobs
As the current editor of the document, and having been involved in XAG
and WCAG from their first drafts both as a W3C staff and once again now
as an outsider, I would like to offer a few reflections:
I think it would be helpful to have a recommendation that distills what
accessibility groups including the WCAG and PF groups have learned
about how to make formats that support accessible content. I am not
sure that merging this work with the WCAG work would get us to WCAG 2.0
faster.
There are some outstanding issues in WCAG 2.0 that would need to be
resolved if these two were to be merged. While they are separated, the
question of what is really the responsibility of the author, and what
is the responsibility of the user agent, has a low impact on XAG.
Similarly, XAG currently has a single level conformance scheme. It is
clearly designed to direct the author of a schema in the way they work,
in a way that does not suggest it would be easy to merge with the
current WCAG conformance approaches.
On the other hand, there has been no charter, and so no real work on
XAG, for some time. It is currently lacking in techniques which would
allow some reasonable testability, and despite some work that has been
done on automatic testing, XAG seems likely to be reliant on
substantial human judgement for a while yet.
I think Ian is correct that being able to say "use accessibility
features available", "use an accessible format" and "use the semantics
of a format according to specification", rather than trying to list
lots of requirements is a step forward. In order to produce something
useful, at least developing that to a comprehensive set of techniques
for HTML, and preferably for half a dozen formats, is important.
Otherwise people are left with some nice principles but insufficient
guidance. SMIL, SVG, MathML, PDF, Flash would be the sort of list that
Sidar would like to see.
Incorporating the XAG work has the benefit that WCAG is actually
chartered, and has the right to publish W3C working drafts, whereas
since PF has not been in that situation for a while I have not written
a new draft. It has the drawback that there is some substantial work to
be done, and the PF group has developed some understanding about what
that work involves and the techniques and approaches available. But
then the current proposal for a charter for PF [pfc] suggests maybe
making XAG a note - that is, something of less status than a normative
document.
Where do we want to go with this?
cheers
Chaals
[pfc] http://www.w3.org/WAI/PF/charter200402.html
Charles McCathieNevile Fundaci?n Sidar
charles@sidar.org http://www.sidar.org
