On Win95 the fonts are displayed extremely small in the Amaya window--is
there an option to resize?
David Blunt
Hi,
could you give an URL showing this problem.
Thanx.
Ramzi.
It doesn't matter what URL, it's any page, local or on the net. I tried to
use the magnification entry in the ini file, but it didn't have any effect.
I'm using a 15" monitor at 1076 X 760 resolution, but the size isn't a
problem with any other programs.
Thanks for the help.
David
www-amaya@w3.org www-amaya@w3.org
Hi David,
According to the capture of your screen, there is no problem with Amaya.
It seems that IE uses too large characters but the way Amaya
displays the document is the right way.
Ramzi.
You can size the text with Amaya this is not a problem. However,
the Amaya home page is well displayed with Amaya and in right way.
How to modify text size with Amaya:
first edit a paragraph, then click within the paragraph and hit
escape key (this allows to select it).
Use the Style/Character Style Menu and modify what you want
(size font, ...).
You can create a CSS rule on the paragraph tag and all your
paragraphs will be displayed in the same way than the modified
paragraph.
To create the CSS rule, select again the paragraph you've modified
and use the menu Style/Create Rule then confirm.
Ramzi.
This is a multi-part message in MIME format.
------=_NextPart_000_000B_01BD6923.69B0ACC0
Content-Type: text/plain;
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Are you in denial? Netscape, Opera, and Communicator all display at the
correct size, but Amaya displays text small. Don't reply, "They're all
wrong, Amaya is the only one that displays web pages the right way."
Attached is image of Netscape, Opera, and Amaya window.
And it doesn't matter which web page it is. Amaya needs a text sizing
option, whether you like it or not.
In reply to a complaint by David Blunt db@2100.com , Ramzi GUETARI
guetari@silhouette.inrialpes.fr said:
Actually, what is currently missing with the Win95 version of Amaya is
the abitity to specify a "User's preferences" style sheet, like in the
current Unix version. When that feature gets implemented in Win95, it
will be possible to adjust the way Web pages get displayed by editing
the "user's preferences" style sheet.
Bertrand Ibrahim.
Bertrand.Ibrahim@cui.unige.ch
My PGP public key is in my WWW home page.
Its fingerprint is 27 F8 E6 45 76 C4 E4 90 C5 83 2A 14 20 CC 7D FC
In-reply-to: Your message of Wed, 22 Apr 1998 13:55:15 +0200."
This feature is available for Windows version since 1.2a release.
As explained in the entry "Configurating" in the menu "Help", the Windows
"User's preferences" style sheet should be located at Thot\amaya\amaya.css
For example, you can automatically magnify Web pages by creating this file
with the following rule:
BODY { magnification : 2 }
Regards
Irene.
Irene.Vatton@imag.fr said:
I'm glad to stand corrected. This is great news. Thanks for the
info.
Peace,
Bertrand Ibrahim.
Bertrand.Ibrahim@cui.unige.ch
My PGP public key is in my WWW home page.
Its fingerprint is 27 F8 E6 45 76 C4 E4 90 C5 83 2A 14 20 CC 7D FC
Mystery solved.
Yes, this works.
I was having trouble having copied my disk to another (bigger) disk.
For reasons only Microsoft could understand, moving the disk caused
the shortcuts to move with them, so I was launching the version installed
on the old disk (and therefore was using a different Thot directory).
- Jim
