In the response to a PROPFIND with the following body:
the driveway.com server will include the DAV:supportedlock element for
non-collection resources, which seems wrong, although I can't find
anywhere in 2518 which actually says so. There should be some kind of
requirement that servers only return the *requested* properties for this
type of PROPFIND requests, shouldn't there? A MUST requirement would be
nice.
joe
A server is always free to return extra properties since clients are always
able to tell if a response contains the properties they are interested in. A
client that fails in this scenario would be properly viewed as broken as,
even if the standard prohibited returning extra properties, a real world
client MUST be flexible enough to handle a broken server that did the wrong
thing in this case.
That having been said, I wouldn't support specifying that a server MUST NOT
return extra properties as I don't think this requirement would enhance
interoperability and it would prevent some potentially useful scenarios.
I realize that a server returning extra properties could be considered a
D.O.S. attack but since the server is the "service" and since the client can
kill the TCP connection, I find this argument to be a bit strained.
Does the WG still want to be seeing these reports?
Further testing against www.driveway.com:
MKCOL fails with 500 internal server error, e.g.:
MKCOL /user.jorton/bar/ HTTP/1.1
User-Agent: cadaver/0.10.0
Connection: Keep-Alive
Host: www.driveway.com
Authorization: xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
COPY returns 204, but doesn't actually copy anything: e.g.
COPY /user.jorton/foo.htm HTTP/1.1
User-Agent: cadaver/0.10.0
Connection: Keep-Alive
Host: www.driveway.com
Destination: http://www.driveway.com/user.jorton/bar.htm
Overwrite: F
Authorization: xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
A GET or PROPFIND against a collection which doesn't exist returns 422,
should be 404.
Regards,
joe
The fact that the spec is silent on this point has caused this interop
problem; it needs to say something, whether it is MUST NOT or SHOULD NOT
or just a comment.
joe
Although I gloss over them for now, I like to have these compatibility and
bug reports handy in the archives for reference later. So IMO, keep on
sending them.
Actually the spec is extremely clear on what to do with unexpected/unknown
elements - ignore them.
From: Joe Orton [mailto:joe@orton.demon.co.uk]
Sent: Sat, January 29, 2000 8:02 AM
Subject: Re: driveway.com / cadaver interop
