Greetings:
I am having a variety of problems using PUT with amaya 1.0b (precompiled
Linux-ELF) in conjunction with apache 1.20. I think the server handles PUT ok
with the simple, unsecure script I'm using to facilitate it (script was grabbed
from ApacheWeek and modified by me) because using a remote copy of Communicator
does allow me to correctly publish to my site.
What happens when I try to 'save as' using amaya is that first, I correctly get
prompted for authentication, then get a message for each file (incl. images)
that they appear to be corrupted and asked to confirm or cancel continuing with
save. Everything appears to go OK, and my access log shows the transactions.
However, some files are inevitbly truncated - for these files, the access.log
shows status codes of '204 0'.
I haven't been able to attempt this remotely with amaya - the only machine on
which I can run amaya is the one the WWW server runs on. I did see a message or
two in the mailing list archives about some operations working correctly over a
slower, remote connection that did not work locally interacting with the server
- can anyone confirm this?
Another thing I experience is also something I saw mentioned in the mailing
list archives - if an operation fails, and I immediately re-try the operation,
I almost always get amaya crashing on me.
This is an excellent program and I have gotten quite handy with editing my
documents using the various views - I'd really like to be able to implement it
is the way my Linux users publish to the machine. I still hand code almost all
of my pages, but have come over to believing that many things, particularly
complex tables, are *much* faster to create using a tool such as Amaya. I think
in many ways, amaya is clearly superior to the only other Linux program that
supports PUT publishing that I am aware of - Netscape Composer.
So, I would appreciate any tips on using amaya 1.0b under Linux, specifically
with publishing to a server that supports PUT. One further question - how much
disk space does it really take to compile amaya from scratch? I do have motif
2.0 and am of the mind that it may be more stable if compiled on my system.
TIA,
Bryan
Bryan White / astro@eden.com
Put is fundamentally unreliable using HTTP/1.0 due to a race condition
between the close of the connection and the reply message. This depends
on exact timing in the network and of the application.
HTTP/1.1 fixes this. What version of what server are you using to
use PUT? Note that current versions of both Jigsaw and Apache speak HTTP/1.1.
- Jim Gettys
Thanks for your response:
As I indicated in my original post, I am indeed using Apache 1.2 (released
version) and it appears to deal correctly with HTTP/1.1 requests. Further,
the 'PUT' operation functions correctly using Netscape communicator
remotely...
I do believe this is probably the timing problem that I've seen talked
about on this list between amaya and an Apache server running on the same
machine, so again, I'm asking if anyone can verify this, or has advice on
how to remedy the situation?
Since my first writing, I obtained and installed a different PUT script
(written in C, I believe it came straight from CERN and was linked to from
the w3 site. I realize that this should still not be considered secure,
but I'm just trying to implement this on a test basis for now.
At any rate, the C put program exhibits the exact same behavior as the
PERL script I was using - works remotely with communicator but I get
corrupted/aborted saves locally using amaya.
As always, any further information appreciated,
Bryan
Two workaround :
1/ use the amaya-java version : these HTTP 1/1 didn't show the problem
2/ or update to Apache 1.2.1, I had problem with 1.2 beta and after
upgrade and using the perl script things went back to normal ...
Daniel
Daniel Veillard@w3.org | W3C / INRIA Rhone-Alpes | Today's Bookmarks :
Daniel.Veillard@inrialpes.fr| 655 av de l'Europe | Linux, WWW, Java,
Tel : +33 (0)4 76 61 53 85 | 38330 Montbonnot | badminton, Kaffe,
Home: +33 (0)4 76 63 05 86 | http://opera.inrialpes.fr/veillard
