I have been struggling for a while to find out a generic representation of situations of
which the following one is an example. Seems close to the "Classes as Values" issue, but
quite different.
Suppose I have the three following classes and instances
Country : France
Region : Alsace
City : Strasbourg
The instances Strasbourg, Alsace and France are bound by a partitive (administrative or
geographical) relationship
Strasbourg partOfAlsace
Alsace partOf France
The classes themselves are instances of a meta-class "Geographical Unit", being both Range
and Domain of another hierarchical relation like "isSubdivisionOf" (whatever, something to
make it distinct from the partOf relation at instance level)
Region subdivisionOf Country
City subdivisionOf Region
It's clear that this relation is neither a subClassOf, nor a partOf relation
I have three questions about it :
1. What generic kind of relation is subdivisionOf? What are the modeling current
practices?
2. How to express it in SW languages?
3. How to express that the hierarchy defined by the partOf relation is "conformant" to, or
"inherited from" the hierarchy declared by the subdivisionOf relation, without having to
declare each specific restriction it entails, e.g:
Any City is part of some Region
Any Region is part of some Country
Ideas?
Bernard Vatant
Senior Consultant
Knowledge Engineering
Mondeca - www.mondeca.com
bernard.vatant@mondeca.com
Hi Bernard, interesting case of overcommitment ...
I don't see the need for these metaclasses. A class can be the domain
or range of a relation without any postulated metaclass needed. We
can say that Country is a subclassOf Geographical Unit.
For example (in OWL abstract syntax):
Class(Country partial
GeographicalUnit)
Class(Region partial
GeographicalUnit
(restriction(subdivisionOf someValuesFrom Country)))
Class(City partial
GeographicalUnit
(restriction(subdivisionOf someValuesFrom Region)))
therefore ...
I use "geographic part" relations, like your "subdivisionOf" for part
applied to political or functional geographic objects. My rationale
is that political mereology has different characteristics from
physical mereology, like part when applied to rocks.
Then, the relationship between Strasbourg and Alsace is simply an
instance of the "subdivisionOf" relation.
See above
If you refer to partial orders, you should decide on which relation
creates that order, and then you can start evaluating morphisms
between different orders. But I don't think your example needs that .
Conformity in your example applies between individuals (Strasbourg,
etc.), and classes (City, etc.), in the sense that asserting triples
on individuals should not violate the restrictions given on the
classes.
Why not? this is the standard way to do it. The problem (if any) is
about *your* intended meaning of part or subdivision: what
individuals are in the universe of those relations? are those
relations transitive?, etc.
Have a good time
Aldo
Aldo Gangemi
Research Scientist
Laboratory for Applied Ontology
Institute for Cognitive Sciences and Technology
National Research Council (ISTC-CNR)
Via Nomentana 56, 00161, Roma, Italy
a.gangemi@istc.cnr.it
Hi Aldo
Thanks for your input. Comments below.
I've been through that path. It assumes that the generic hierarchy (between classes) can
be defined by restrictions put on the hierarchy used at instance level. So there is no
point in wanting to express this generic hierarchy by a direct relation using classes as
individuals.
OTOH, in some contexts, modeling habits have led to different vocabularies for the generic
hierarchy and instance hierarchy. For example, in documentation management, documentalists
can be constrained to map their folder hierarchy on a so-called "taxonomy" (hierarchy of
"headings" or "categories"). And it's not obvious to port the above type of modeling in
this domain:
- A Folder is an instance of a generic Category, itself a subclass of Folder
- The Category hierarchy is defined by restrictions on the Folder-SubFolder relation ...
... This is technically correct, but quite difficult (not to say almost impossible) to
explain to documentalists, very unfamiliar with the class-instance paradigm, let alone
property restrictions :(
There again, do we want to push what we consider is "right" modeling, or represent at best
the legacy?
Agreed, but the distinction between administrative vs geographical mereology is an
orthogonal issue.
Seen :))
Exactly. It's all about morphisms. Not necessarily restricted to partial orders, though.
It can be extended to any generic pattern or organization scheme using different relation
types, like e.g. a publication schema organizing its different parts (Introduction, (
Chapter, Paragraph* )*, Table of Contents, Bibliography ...) using both "subdivision" and
"succession" relations.
Indeed
Standard, indeed, but a bit awkward if you have a lot of classes, like in the above
example of Folders and Categories (which is actually the original use case I was
struggling with).
Browsing literature about mereology, it seems that it often confuse, like NL does, generic
relations like "Region is part of Country" or "Head is part of Body" and specific ones
like "Alsace is part of France" or "My head is part of my body". Not sure of what the
individuals are in the generic example ... seems to me they assert relation between
concepts, not unlike a "Broader-Narrower" in a thesaurus, rather than implicit
restrictions on instances of implicit classes.
There again, we are close to the "classes as values" issue ...
Bernard
Bernard Vatant
Senior Consultant
Knowledge Engineering
Mondeca - www.mondeca.com
bernard.vatant@mondeca.com
Aldo
I'm happy to see you are almost as confused as I can be by documentalists' world :))
1) documentalists maintain heading hierarchies (I assume they are a
sort of "topic")
Yes, "sort of". They call it a "taxonomy" (sigh) or, in French "Plan de classement".
In a project I'm currently involved, we deal with such a taxonomy for "People"
publications (challenging stuff, huge legacy, alas) in a major press group.
We have a heading (or category) hierarchy like :
Person
. Public Life
.. Awards
. Private Life
.. Family
.. Holidays
.. Couple
.. Pets
For each heading, there is attached information such as
- description of types (classes?) of relevant documents
- types (classes?) of related knowledge base objects
- naming convention (for the indexed folders)
- attached keywords (in a relevant Thesaurus)
So, for the taxonomy manager, headings are (sort of) (individual?) topics with attached
properties, organized in a hierarchy.
2) documentalists manipulate folders (I assume folders are locations
of books or documents)
Yes. Used to be (and still sometimes are) paper folders, and now electronic ones. A folder
can be the container of actual document files, or of some electronic proxies, e.g. URIs.
3) documentalists declare some relation between folders ("subFolderOf")
Yes. You do that any way you like in your hard disk folders. But in our use case
documentalists have to follow the constraints defined by the taxonomy. Not only the
hierarchy, but also the naming conventions etc ... and of course put the right documents
in the right folders.
So you will get something like the following hierarchy of folders :
Britney S
. Britney S - Public Life
.. Britney S Awards
etc ...
4) ???categories are defined wrt to the subFolder relation???
Tricky things begin here. You can say "Britney S - Public Life" is an instance of a
generic class "Folder". But it's also specifically related to the generic "Public Life"
heading. What is the nature of that relation, that is the question. Even if the taxonomy
manager does not think about headings as classes, the most natural (?) way to express this
relation is to consider "Public Life" as a class of which "Britney S - Public Life" is an
instance ...
5) ???a category is a subClassOf Folder???
... seems the logical conclusion of the above ... (category = heading).
If "Public Life" and the like are subclasses of Folder, you can describe "a posteriori"
the heading hierarchy by restrictions on the subFolder relation, as clearly explained in
your previous message. But this will nevertheless sound strange to the taxonomy manager
I am lost. Maybe you could provide an excerpt of a folder set, and an
excerpt of a heading hierarchy, so that our intuition gets closer to
the point.
Hope the above makes for that. I was lost for a while, too :))
As usual, I do not care much about what representation primitives
should be used, until I do understand the intended meaning of the
experts. OK, documentalist use informal structures, but before
deciding on what formal structure we can suggest, we need to know
what they want to talk about, and for what purpose.
Well, it is in fact a recursive process. Providing accurate language at the right moment
generally help people to figure out better what they are about. All the (pedagogic) point
is to bring this language at the right point. Is not it what we are about?
I interpret "representing at best the legacy" as a good encoding of
the intended meaning/use, not as a (possibly awkward) encoding of the
original structure.
Agreed.
If we are able to understand the semantics of the legacy, we can even
reproduce the original format or syntax, but being aware of the
underlying semantics.
... or propose an alternative one (simpler, more generic, more interoperable, less
ambiguous ...)
Give me some example to judge on awkwardness ...
Imagine the above example with 10 000 + headings to manage. Does it scale?
A mereology as an ontology of part is any theory that includes part
relations in its signature, and provides axioms for that relation wrt
a specified domain. There is a lot of curious or fancy stuff out
there, but let's try to stay focused ...
Indeed :))
Ciao
Bernard
Bernard Vatant
Senior Consultant
Knowledge Engineering
Mondeca - www.mondeca.com
bernard.vatant@mondeca.com
