While not visually impaired in the sense that most people use it on this
list (corrective surgery gives me pretty good vision with glasses and
without the headaches of the pre surgery years) I have a degree of mobility
impairment in my wrist. As a result after a long day at the computer
scrolling down sometimes becomes an issue for me.
That is one reason I prefer to read replies that are top posted especially
when the original post was long and the response is short. Like most people
I write the way I prefer to receive responses. The subject of top vs. bottom
posting or even inline responses can trigger holy wars. This is the third
mail list I've seen the subject come up on in the last three days.
Like many others on this list I have been using email back to the "old
days". I never cared for usenet and preferred CompuServe and even Prodigy
Classic. I think I joined Prodigy Classic back in 89 or 90. Followed by
CompuServe in 92. Those boards tended to have top posting so that is one of
the reasons I'm more comfortable with it. It isn't a matter of how Outlook
quotes messages. I use the full version of Outlook 2003 not Outlook Express
and it can be configured to change the quoting behavior but since its
default fits my preferred working style I have had no intention of changing
it.
On occasion I will answer messages inline usually when there is a series of
questions asked or issues raised. Bottom posting for me is more difficult to
deal not so much from a writing point of view since I could configure
Outlook to behave differently as it is from a reading the replies and having
to scroll past frequently untrimmed responses. The members of this list are
generally good about trimming the posts they are responding to but on many
others I frequently see two or more screens of quoted text with 1 to 5 lines
in response. All that scrolling to get what is essentially a "me too".
There is nothing inherently evil in any method of responding to an email
other than the failure to trim responsibly. FWIW, I also agree with Charles
and wish every email client out there would quit hard wrapping at 72
characters and throwing  in that break in strange places as a result.
Cheryl D. Wise
Certified Professional Web Developer
MS-MVP-FrontPage
www.wiserways.com
713.353.0139 Office
As a top poster...
I find, in simple threads, that top posting is much easier to understand,
because
- quoting isn't standardised (however much we would like it to be)
- in a list I read regularly it is easier for me to keep a rough idea of
context over the list than have to drill through each message
- it is what I am used to. (I spent the 80's using /usr/ucb/mail, which
being a line-mode tool made quoting generally difficult).
I suspect this is a matter of individual preference. Sometimes I do
interleaved posting, sometimes I appreciate it when others have done it. I
now have a graphical rendering of quoting, except that it isn't all that
accurate, and I still find it hard without more context markers than Dave
used in his interleaved contribution to this thread.
I have noticed a general preference among blind users for top posting, but
not so strong that one or other would be standardised. I suspect this is
because tools are trying to work with a standard (RFC822) which is too
simplistic in its functionality for what we really want it to do, so they
don't make it easy to work with quoting. (Many tools auto-wrap at an
arbitrary 72 characters, although users now almost universally work on
systems that have flexible-size windows and window-wrapping. It seems many
of these tools don't manage to preserve " " quoting marks properly over that
wrapping.)
So I think this is an interesting question. I don't believe there is a
standard answer.
just my 2 cents worth
Compuserve in the early 90s didn't have top or bottom posting. It
had good threading mechanisms, and, because it was all centralised,
there was no risk of threads getting broken by missing articles.
As a result, at least for small articles, there was no quoting at all;
if you needed context, you just followed the thread backwards.
The real issue associated with the top and bottom posting debate
is over-quoting. Pure bottom posting is as bad as pure top posting,
if not worse, but pure top posting makes over-quoting very easy.
People who complain about having to trawl through a lot of material
to find new material in interleaved style are normally suffering from
over-quoting. Used sensibly, interleaved quoting avoids the need to
paraphrase the original.
In general, if you top post, you should not include the original article
and you should certainly delete articles before the last from the quotation.
David Wooley wrote about older email conventions and Compuserve and Prodigy:
Exactly. I guess part of my bias towards quote first, respond second is
founded on the belief that I should only quote the part of the message to
which I am responding. This is for two reasons: 1. because it clearly
establishes the issue to which I am responding, and 2. because I see no need
to waste bandwidth including parts that don't apply to my response. Most
email clients and thread based list software such as used on this list have
built in mechanisms to relate messages with appropriate threading, which is
really the key to all of this.
If you view the full headers of a message on this list, you'll see this:
X-Archived-At:
(that message likely isn't archived online yet, but that is the message id
of the message to which I am respsonding)
These references that are buried in the messages themselves carry semantic
meaning, as they take care of the threading, what order the messages are to
be seen in the threads, and the "nested" branching of all responses within a
thread. (Think of them as link rel="next" and link rel="prev" for email
discussions)
In my mind, there is no need to include the full message as we so often see
with top-posting, and that is part of the thinking behind trimming posts and
only including the relevant parts -- full context is available for those
that need it through message headers, but you still provide the portions
that are relevant through a small quote, as necessary.
Given that, if you are going to top post, does it make sense to include
*any* of the original at all? Again, a serious question -- to me, if we have
enough semantic information that we can get at the context through smart
email clients and properly threaded and branched discussion list software,
then lets save the bandwidth that is usually wasted by top posting.
If you are in the mood to see where top-posting goes horribly wrong, check
out this sample thread in the archives at the Wrox forums. Warning: this
will be hard to follow as almost everyone involved in the thread was top
posting. This renders the thread pretty much useless and an utter waste of
bandwidth, both at the time of the discussion and now, while viewing the
archives online: http://p2p.wrox.com/archive/asp_databases/2003-01/23.asp
Best regards,
Derek.
Derek Featherstone feather@wats.ca
Web Accessibility Specialist / Co-founder of WATS.ca
Web Accessibility Testing and Services
