Hi,
I've had a repeating crash with Amaya 7.2 running under X windows/Mac
OSX. The following sequence of events regularly produces a crash:
Open: http://www.w3.org/2003/04/09-w3m.html
Open in new window: http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Team/w3mreq/2003Apr/
crash
Most of the time when I re-start amaya I do not even get the option to
recover. The crash log is attached.
Thanks,
Danny
Interesting. Those two documents are locked. When I try to open them in
sequence and press cancel when asked for authentication, after the second
cancelled authentication the "Save as..." dialogue pops up, but Amaya does not
crash (Amaya 7.2 Linux).
Karl-Michael
Hello Danny,
We don't have a Mac version of Amaya and the Linux and Windows versions don't
crash with those documents.
Do other Mas users (Charles, Carine,... ?) can test the same scenario with
Amaya 7.2 or later and give us more info about this bug (that occurs when
Amaya loads a style sheet, as mentionned in the crash log).
Thanks in advance
Laurent
Hi Laurent,
Thanks for your reply. Perhaps some of the other Mac folks have some
experience here?
As an aside: If we could get Apple to donate a Mac to you, would that
help? Might you even consider doing a native OSX build?
Thanks again,
Danny
Yes, it would be helpfull to improve the robustness of Mac versions.
Irene and Vincent just got some funds from INRIA to hiring an engineer to work
on a native OSX version of Amaya and on the user interface. This contract will
start in September. Be patient !
Thanks
Laurent
Laurent, this is great news about OSX. I'll certainly be patient until
then.
Thanks,
Danny
Hi folks,
I could not reproduce that crash, no hint :/
Carine Bournez -+- W3C Sophia-Antipolis
thanks for checking.
Is there a way to change the memory allocation available to X? Would
that make any difference?
danny
I don't think there's a limit in OSX, unless you use some ulimit.
But does your X11 crashes at the same time amaya crashes?
I don't know if it's relevant or not, but I did not update apple's X11
to last release yet. I will do it next week, then I could test again.
