EOWG:
A condensed list of EOWG discussion questions for the WCAG 2.0 Working
Draft follows, based on our conversation at last week's teleconference.
Again, the 24 June 2003 WCAG 2.0 Working Draft is available at
and the call for review which was sent out on the WAI Interest Group
mailing list is available at
Please carefully read the whole draft document before our teleconference
tomorrow. Comments onto the EOWG list are encouraged.
Regards,
- Judy
1. Are the guidelines and checkpoints understandable?
(WE DISCUSSED THIS ONE ALREADY.)
2. Is the terminology used translatable?
(WE DISCUSSED THIS ONE SOME, AND SHOULD JUST CHECK BACK IN BRIEFLY ON IT.)
3. What would the impact of the guidelines, checkpoints, and conformance
model be on:
- EOWG's evaluation resource suite?
- other EOWG documents?
4. Is the structure of the document easy to understand and follow:
- is it easy to find specific topics within the document?
- is it easy to find associated documents such as the Techniques documents?
- how clear and appropriate is the overall presentation of the document?
5. Does the conformance model appear to be:
- clearly defined and implementable?
- clearly explained with respect to questions people may have regarding the
transition from WCAG 1.0 to 2.0?
Date: Wed, 06 Aug 2003 18:12:36 -0400
From: Judy Brewer jbrewer@w3.org
Subject: EOWG discussion questions for WCAG 2.0 Working Draft
EOWG:
At our teleconference last week, we agreed that we would discuss the 24
June 2003 WCAG 2.0 Working Draft at our EOWG teleconferences on 8 August,
15 August, and also 29 August if needed.
Several people said that they would start reading the draft to help start
the discussion for this week, and I promised to send out the questions
that we'd brainstormed on our 1 August teleconference. While I'm not
getting those out as early as I'd hoped, they are listed below, for your
reading pleasure. Comments on these questions to the EOWG mailing list are
also welcome.
The 24 June 2003 WCAG 2.0 Working Draft is available at
and the call for review which was sent out on the WAI Interest Group
mailing list is available at
Suggested questions for EOWG discussion follow:
1. Are the guidelines and checkpoints understandable?
2. Is the terminology used translatable?
3. Is the conformance model clearly defined and implementable?
4. What would the impact of the guidelines and checkpoints be on EOWG's
Evaluation Resource Suite?
5. What would the impact of this draft of WCAG 2.0 be on other EOWG documents?
6. Is the structure of the document easy to understand and follow?
7. Is it easy to find specific topics within the document?
8. Is it easy to find associated documents such as the Techniques documents?
9. How clearly does this draft explain questions regarding the transition
between WCAG 1.0 and 2.0?
10. How clear and appropriate is the overall presentation of the document?
Regards,
- Judy
Judy Brewer +1.617.258.9741 http://www.w3.org/WAI
Director, Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI), World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)
MIT/LCS Room NE43-355, 200 Technology Square, Cambridge, MA, 02139, USA
Judy Brewer +1.617.258.9741 http://www.w3.org/WAI
Director, Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI), World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)
MIT/LCS Room NE43-355, 200 Technology Square, Cambridge, MA, 02139, USA
The fine line between EO advice about clarity, etc. and the WG role in
deciding what the conformance model should be is IMO being breached by
discussions about the conformance model itself, rather than about its
clarity and such.
When I was in WG for WCAG it was clear that the change from P1 levels to
something else was on the agenda and that WHATEVER was decided on would
call for exactly the same kinds of arguments that are going on now because
of these changes.
I really believe that we should leave that up to their WG. It is both a can
of worms and a rat hole. I propose that we deal exclusively with the
presentation of the conformance model and not with its content, else we be
drawn down the same rat hole.
Love.
It's Bad Luck to be Superstitious!
There are many perspectives from which the conformance model in WCAG 2.0
can be examined:
- is the conformance model understandable and usable by a content developer;
- is it understandable and usable by a Web site designer or developer;
- is it understandable by an authoring tool developer who is trying to
develop ATAG-conformant tools that produce WCAG-conformant documents;
- is it understandable and usable by someone in charge of an organization's
Web site policy who is trying to set some goals for accessibility;
- is it understandable and useful for a representative of a disability
organization who is trying to determine why various governmental,
commercial or non-profit Web sites may or may not be accessible to people
with disabilities;
- etc.
Presumably the WCAG WG is doing their best to think about all of those
audiences while they write WCAG 2.0, but part of EOWG's work includes
helping WCAG WG communicate their intentions to certain of those audiences
as clearly as possible.
Given that the conformance model is relatively new and still evolving, and
their draft includes several questions regarding how the conformance model
might best be defined, it seems a worthwhile exercise to examine how
they're communicating their conformance concept to different audiences, and
how well that concept might be accepted and usable by some of those audiences.
- Judy
Judy Brewer +1.617.258.9741 http://www.w3.org/WAI
Director, Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI), World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)
MIT/LCS Room NE43-355, 200 Technology Square, Cambridge, MA, 02139, USA
