Hi,
A group of people here at MERANT have recently completed reading/reviewing
the bindings protocol document. We recorded some issues/questions about the
specification.
I understand that this document has completed a final call period, but does
anyone know the status of the document, there are open issues etc, is there
a timeframe for it becoming a "proposed standard"? Is anyone actively
editing or revising the document?
Here are the questions/issues we had with the specification:
1) Section 9 says that methods MUST produce the same results when submitted
on different bindings to the same resource. I disagree, if you issue a
PROPFIND request on /coll1/bar the href returned would be /coll1/bar,
if you issue the same PROPFIND request on /coll2/bar (which is bound to
the same resource) the href returned would be /coll2/bar. The responses
would not be the same. I am sure there could be other examples of this.
2) We found the definition of the DAV:bindings property in section 13.1
very confusing. It would be good to show an example of this property,
an interesting example would be the DAV:bindings on resource R2 from
Figure 1. I will send a separate e-mail on this issue.
3) Section 15 describes capability discovery and shows the use of a header
called Public. I cannot find a definition of this header in RFC2518 or
RFC2616 (there is a Cache-Control public directive but no Public header).
In what specification is this header defined? Maybe I just missed it.
4) Also on the subject of section 15, it seems we have many ways of finding
out what capabilities a server or a resource has...Allow header, Public
header, DAV header, DAV:supported-method-set property (in DeltaV).
I find this confusing, and I know in the various WebDAV groups there has
been some discussion of these and the differences between them, I think
they should be defined clearly and consistently in all the WebDAV related
specifications.
5) Section 18 there is a missing space in the last sentence (after the 507
code).
6) Is there anyone looking at how bindings affect the other protocols,
for example have we looked at how DeltaV features (like Baseline
etc) are affected by bindings?
BTW...are there any server vendors out there that implement or are thinking
of implementing the BIND method? Similarly are any clients using it?
Regards,
Peter Raymond - MERANT
Principal Architect (PVCS)
WWW: http://www.merant.com
Super -- thank you very much for posting your comments on this
specification.
At present, it has gone through a last call, which resulted in a list of
issues being recorded:
The editors of the document held a series of teleconferences about the
specification, minutes from which are available towards the bottom of
recorded in the issues list.
Is anyone actively editing or revising the document?
At present, no. It has been my intent to work on this as soon as the access
control specification is completed. Since the ACL specification is nearly
complete, I anticipate working on this specification soon. We'll have
another last call, perhaps two, and then it'll get sent off.
None that I know of, though I have always felt that this capability is
needed before most document management systems can expose their full
functionality via DAV.
- Jim
From: Peter Raymond [mailto:Peter.Raymond@merant.com]
1) Section 9 says that methods MUST produce the same results when
submitted on different bindings to the same resource. I
disagree, if you issue a PROPFIND request on /coll1/bar the href
returned would be /coll1/bar, if you issue the same PROPFIND
request on /coll2/bar (which is bound to the same resource) the
href returned would be /coll2/bar. The responses would not be
the same. I am sure there could be other examples of this.
Yeah, trying to define the semantics of a "binding" is tricky.
I'd have to look up in our notes whether we came up with something
better, or just didn't try. We might just need to give a method
by method definition of the semantics, and then let folks infer
from that how they should act for future extensions.
2) We found the definition of the DAV:bindings property in section
13.1 very confusing. It would be good to show an example of
this property, an interesting example would be the DAV:bindings
on resource R2 from Figure 1. I will send a separate e-mail on
this issue.
OK.
3) Section 15 describes capability discovery and shows the use of a
header called Public. I cannot find a definition of this header
in RFC2518 or RFC2616 (there is a Cache-Control public directive
but no Public header). In what specification is this header
defined? Maybe I just missed it.
This is a deprecated header from an earlier version of the HTTP-1.1
draft (rfc 2068). The reference should be removed.
4) Also on the subject of section 15, it seems we have many ways of
finding out what capabilities a server or a resource has...Allow
header, Public header, DAV header, DAV:supported-method-set
property (in DeltaV). I find this confusing, and I know in the
various WebDAV groups there has been some discussion of these
and the differences between them, I think they should be defined
clearly and consistently in all the WebDAV related
specifications.
The Public header is gone, but the rest remain. We have defined
DAV:supported-method-set to be the same as Allow, so it really
is DAV header, combined with the DAV:supported-xxx properties.
And we hope to add these properties to the next 2518 draft, so
that they are generally available, and not just in DeltaV.
5) Section 18 there is a missing space in the last sentence (after
the 507 code).
Yup.
6) Is there anyone looking at how bindings affect the other
protocols, for example have we looked at how DeltaV features
(like Baseline etc) are affected by bindings?
I tried to keep bindings in mind for all of the of the DeltaV
features. If you notice anything that might be a problem, please let
me know.
BTW...are there any server vendors out there that implement or are
thinking of implementing the BIND method?
Yes.
Similarly are any clients using it?
Not yet, as far as I know.
Cheers,
Geoff
