Dir sir,
As you may know, my company is publising an Antenna House
XSL Formatter (that is XSL FO processor). And we plan to
hold the first XSL School (one day seminor) on June 6,
2001 in TOKYO, Japan.
We are now preparing tutorials mainly on XSL formatting
objects in Japanese for the seminor.
To explain on XSL in Japanese, we need Japanese translation
of the specification of "Extensible Stylesheet Language"
Candidate Reccomendation, published on 21 November 2000.
The XSL specification is too long to translate it wholly
into Japanese by ourself. But there seems to be no other
organizations or persons who are willing to translate the
specification into Japanese.
Is it OK to translate partially the XSL specification into
Japanese, and to refer to the translated material from our
tutorial?
May we summarize, in behalf of translation, the some part of
the XSL Specification that seems to us unimportant for
users of XSL Formatter?
I am awaiting your reply,
Tokushige Kobayashi
President
Antenna House, Inc.
koba@antenna.co.jp
This school?
On Wed, 09 May 2001 00:47:49 +0900
Omoti
omoti@n24.net
Kobayashi-san,
Partial translation should be OK, so long as you follow the requirements
described in 5.6 of the W3C Intellectual Property FAQ, at:
It sounds similar to annotation. 5.8 of the W3C Intellectual Property
FAQ might be relevant in this case.
I think so long as those summarized parts are clearly represented
as such, i.e. clearly distinguishable that those are not literal
translations but summaries, that should be OK.
Regards,
Masayasu Ishikawa / mimasa@w3.org
W3C - World Wide Web Consortium
Dear Mr. Kobayashi,
Many thanks for your effort to start translation of the XSL
specification.
I agree with Masayasu that it is okay to make a partial translation.
As a volunteer effort, and for a large spec, this is the best way
to work towards an eventual complete translation. Other volunteers
could contribute missing parts.
In addition to the requirements in the W3C Intellectual Property FAQ,
please make sure that you clearly say that it is a partial translation,
and that it is clear which parts are translated, and which parts are
missing.
Yes. The summaries could either be in a separate document, or could
stand in for those parts that are not yet translated fully. Later,
somebody could replace them with the actual translations.
Many thanks again and kind regards, Martin.
