I took an action item to demonstrate the use of links to other documents in
the "How PWDs Use the Web" site at
I've made a brief excerpt (one "scenario") from that document and enabled
links for "tables" and "abbreviations and acronyms" - the first occurrence
of each links to an appropriate section of WCAG 1.0 and the second of each
to the appropriate slide of the curriculum.
Our decision is whether to provide extensive linking to relevant materials
outside the document proper and if so which ones? My demo is at
keeping in mind that if the notion is embraced, we will be forcing an old
man into many hours of tedious cutting and pasting g .
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
William
Thanks for giving the linking a try. One thing I notice is that this is a
little confusing, since the two tables links go to different places (the
first to the guidelines and the second to the curriculum examples), and
likewise the abbreviations and acronyms links -- thus violating one of our
own checkpoints about linking...
but we could overcome this by adding, in parenthesis, "(table checkpoints,
examples)" ....except of course that there are multiple checkpoints and
examples that relate to tables. I think the links need to go to a separate
"checkpoints and examples" references section, which serves as a
way-station for multiple external links to various checkpoints and examples.
Judy
Judy Brewer jbrewer@w3.org +1.617.258.9741 http://www.w3.org/WAI
Director, Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI) International Program Office
World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)
MIT/LCS Room NE43-355, 200 Technology Square, Cambridge, MA, 02139, USA
The question that was raised on the call that I was trying to illustrate
was whether we should link to WCAG or curriculum. I was merely providing a
means of evaluating which (if any) of these targets was more appropriate
for our purposes. I haven't gone through to see how many links would be
called for and won't undertake doing any until we decide if we even want to
do this. I certainly won't make multiple links from the same word if it
appears often.
The reason for putting the link to yet another link instead of directly to
the target is that there will be download time annoyance - this to be
weighed against the 2 vs.1 click situation. I am on a slow connection but
once I've cached the target document, it is much more convenient to only
have to make one click - also "back" returns you to where you were reading
instead of the "basement."
I am a heavy proponent of inline hypertext links, the more the better. They
are easy enough to skip if you don't need any referencing but they get the
additional information painlessly. For someone who grew up racing around in
library stacks this is heaven.
As I experimented with the two targets I came to feel strongly that the
proper one for this document is the curriculum. Its language is similar to
the referring source and the guidelines are just sort of "cold". The people
reading these scenarios are IMO likelier to be comfortable with the text on
the slides than in the guidelines.
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
OK, I didn't understand that initially from your example. I do now.
I agree that there are a bunch of pros and cons on this. I find it annoying
at first to realize that I'm jumping to another/slow document, but might
also find it annoying to find myself in a library of reference links at the
back of the document instead of somewhere interesting.
Can some other EOWG members give opinions here?
I agree on this; the examples were interesting to link to, and the
checkpoints were rather dull-looking.
- Judy
Judy Brewer jbrewer@w3.org +1.617.258.9741 http://www.w3.org/WAI
Director, Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI) International Program Office
World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)
MIT/LCS Room NE43-355, 200 Technology Square, Cambridge, MA, 02139, USA
