Given that we currently have tested 4 implementations on 4 different
platforms (IE/Mozilla/Opera/Konqueror on Windows/OSX/Linux/LinuxPPC) I
think we have a good argument to kickstart the discussion on the
framework. It would be especially good to have a discussion on what
features of each forked version of JsUNIT we want to keep.
The results posted to this list over the past week have all been based
on Curt's version of JsUnit, it would be good to see the results using
Bob/Edward's version as well.
I'll continue testing my platform with the version that Bob has made
available on his website.
So far, however, it seems we have a very good coverage of
implementations/platforms.
Best,
/Dimitris
Well, Curt's jsunit works on IE(Win)/Mozilla(all platforms) and
Konqueror. It still doesn't work with Opera (almost with 7 though).
I'm wondering if we should have more than one test suite for ECMAScript:
One for HTML, one for XHTML, and one for XML. It seems like by trying to
mix all of them, we run into unnecessary troubles.
Philippe
I believe that the issue with the current design has to do with the
inability to select the content type of the test document which is
served as well as the inability to choose the implementation that is
being tested.
In the current approach we have lost that ability and hide the
differences between implementations in handling content types (for
example Internet Explorer's native handling of XML versus MSXML's
handling of XML).
This is not necessarily related to the version of JsUnit that is being
used but more to do with the implementation of the builder objects and
how test documents are chosen and loaded. In the straw man proposal I
made in late May, I proposed an approach where the content type and
implementation could be chosen. I believe that the ability to specify
the content type and the implementation is crucial to a complete and
fair test.
In addition, several tests make assumptions with regard the ability of
the parser being used (validating vs non-validating etc.). The current
tests do not make it clear whether a particular test may or may not be
supported by the particular implementation being tested.
Finally, the current test framework skips certain tests which are not
appropriate for the current test environment but do not provide a report
of what tests were skipped or why. The test framework should report on
any such skipped tests.
/bc
