Document Object Model (DOM) Level 3 Core Specification
Version 1.0
W3C Working Draft 26 January 2001
Section 1.2. DOM Level 3 Java Binding Extension
defines DOMImplementationFactory source code.
However that code is not repeated in Appendix B: Java Language Binding
More importantly, it is missing from the code distribution
Is there an official version of DOMImplementationFactory available?
Or might the explanatory example be intentionally omitted from the
java bindings?
Since the DOMImplementationFactory class is abstract, presumably
defining it as part of the org.w3c.dom package (Core) is not
a cause for collision with actual DOM implementations.
FWIW, example source code is attached. It also inserts pertinent working-
draft prose as Javadoc into the section 1.2 source code. It compiles OK.
If accepted, a reverse Javadoc link back (@see DOMImplementationFactory)
and corresponding explanatory javadoc prose ought to be also added to
DOMImplementation.
all the best, Don
Don Brutzman Naval Postgraduate School, Code UW/Br Root 200 work 831.656.2149
Virtual worlds/underwater robots/Internet http://web.nps.navy.mil/~brutzman
Yes and I still have an action item to fix it. Given that this part
is completely unstable, I'm waiting to have a stable proposal for
bootstrapping before doing it.
Bootstrapping in Core was discussed yesterday and was changed in the
internal XML sources of the DOM spec for the upcoming meeting of the
WG. We should publish this new version a few weeks after the meeting.
The new version is a different approach of the current one since we
included the requirements for Embedded DOM implementations.
Note also that DOM Level 3 Core does not include DOM Level 2 Core interfaces
yet, so the idl and Java sources can't be compiled yet. It won't be fixed
in the next version I guess but will definitively be after that.
I'll point the editor of the Core module to your proposal and see what could be
reused in the new version,
Bests regards,
Philippe
For those of us who aren't members of the W3C, could you let us know
when the WG meeting will be? I don't see that information listed at
Thanks!
-Fred
Fred L. Drake, Jr. fdrake at acm.org
PythonLabs at Digital Creations
Next week. I'm still working on collecting the issues from the mailing lists.
The editors will need time after that to integrate the decisions. The
upcoming WWW10 teleconference will also slow down a bit the publication pipe.
FYI, updates on Requirements and Content Models and Load/Save are scheduled for
today. Load/Save will not include your feedback but the next one will.
Philippe
Next week.
FWIW, the DOM's "face-to-face" meetings occur roughly every other month,
with a lot of e-mail and teleconferences between them.
Joe Kesselman / IBM Research
