[Bcc'ed to EuroAccessibility technical groups]
Hi folks,
one of the issues that is going to come up for the EuroAccessibility
Task Force on testing tools is how to check the performance of tools
for dynamic pages - for example, can a particular piece of sooftware
test the 4-step process of registering for a W3C meeting, or the
process of applying for a credit card online?
Thre are lots of open questions about the best methodology to apply
here, and particularly about how to classify the results, but I am
wondering if anyone has a tool that can actually walk through the
process, and how this is done.
The EuroAccessibility task force is likely to look seriously at how to
do this in the second half of this year (at least it is this year in
Europe now :-) and having some idea now about any tools that are
designed to handle this problem would be helpful.
Some preliminary thoughts:
javascript extensions to something that functions as a browser, or
tools that have access to pprocessing back-ends, seem to me likely to
have an easier time of this. Although in principle it is possible to
save each page through the process and run it through a local test, it
might not be that simple in practice to get all the scripts, styles,
multimedia, etc.
Testing this manually (without tools) should be largely possible, but
it is a complex job, and it would be nice to be supported by software.
cheers
Chaals
Charles McCathieNevile Fundaci?n Sidar
charles@sidar.org http://www.sidar.org
Interestingly my best suggestion for this is also my oldest
surviving tool, cg-eye (1997). If you go to (e.g.)
offers you the opportunity to load a page containing a Form.
Look at what happens when you submit the form, and we have the
basis for an approach to this.
Building this approach into other tools is a longstanding item
on my to-do list.
Just my ?0.02:-)
Nick Kew
Charles,
I agree that supporting tests of pages that are generated on the basis
of user-given data is important and complex.
As you will see, LIFT Machine has some capability of specifying how
forms should be filled in and therefore testing (for accessibility) the
resulting pages. At the moment we don't promote it a lot since its GUI
is rudimental (you have to specify in XML which form, fields and value
you want to use). In the future there will be a better interface.
Also, in the user's manual we say that the mechanism can be used to
automate testing of login forms only. But the mechanism is more general
than that.
See section 9.13 of the User's Manual of the LM.
Giorgio
Giorgio Brajnik
Dip. di Matematica e Informatica | voice: +39 (0432) 55.8445
Loc. Rizzi -- 33100 Udine -- ITALY | http://www.dimi.uniud.it/~giorgio
