I sent the following note to the area directors, as my reading of the
intent of the working group and the current status:
Date: Thu, 29 Aug 96 09:47:50 -0700
In-reply-to: 8467.841303987@domen.uninett.no
(Harald.T.Alvestrand@uninett.no)
Subject: digest authentication summary
From: Larry Masinter masinter@parc.xerox.com
I missed the message, but saw some of the replies.
I think the consensus of the working group is that Digest
Authentication is a part of HTTP/1.1. Fortunately, what people in the
WG were talking about ("Must implement digest if they implement
basic") is actually moot, since "implement" can mean the "null
implementation", if you peer at draft-ietf-http-digest-aa-04.txt.
So, I think we should just go ahead with the two documents; it would
be convenient to include in section 11.2 a simple statement that
"The HTTP/1.1 protocol includes the Digest Access Authentication,
which is described in RFC XXXX."
I think this captures the intent of the working group and what it is
that got voted on in last call.
I think we should instruct the RFC editor to change the title of
draft-ietf-http-digest-aa-04.txt from
"A Proposed Extension to HTTP: Digest Access Authentication"
to
"Digest Access Authentication for HTTP"
I'm sorry for causing a flap by forwarding the note to the working
group instead of just responding directly. Actually, I think I may
have mainly been trying to SHARE THE GOOD NEWS that both had been
voted on by the IESG.
Larry
Larry, I think you owe the HTTP WG an explanation of your "null
implementation", since it was never mentioned in the WG discussion. In my
"peering" at the draft, I see nothing that has the word "null" in it and
do not understand what you mean.
I'm not trying to be contentious, but I think it's inappropriate for you to
declare a WG discussion moot in a message to the IESG when you as WG Chair
never said so on the WG list. Further, this kind of action is especially
inappropriate when the WG chair is in the minority of the rough consensus,
as I feel is the case here. Regardless of individuals' motivations, most
folks who spoke up (and there were plenty) agreed that
digest-authentication should be a MUST in the spec.
--Paul Hoffman
--Internet Mail Consortium
Paul, there is more here (and has been going on behind the scenes) than
you know. I'll try to summarize the situation as I see it from the mail
that has been flowing between the area directors, Larry and myself.
The basic problem is a procedural one (that Keith Moore, Harald
Alvestrand, Larry and I might be held responsible for): last calls
were issued on the documents independently, and they are not written
to interdepend in appropriate ways. With 20-20 hind sight, we should
have issued a single last call with covering explanation, and done the
wordsmithing slightly differently.
The IETF and IESG get very upset if any normative requirements (i.e. MUSTs,
SHOULDS, etc.) change between the final draft and the RFC; after all,
that is what is Last Call is all about. Any changes should be entirely of
an editorial nature.
So, we have to ways to fix this.
1) Issue new drafts for both documents, and have to issue a new IETF
last call. Once that is done, the IESG does its thing. This would
take a month or two. (or three)....
2) Have the IESG immediately issue the RFC's for both HTTP/1.1 and
Digest. Go ahead immediately with issue a separate (about 1 page) draft
that states the normative requirements we all intend(ed), forward to the
area directors instantly, and do IETF last call on it.
This would take a month or two. (or three)....
Both 1) and 2) take the same length of elapsed time to the same
desired end state. 1) causes us to wait months more for any IESG
action (i.e. we don't get RFC's immediately), and 2) gets us the announcement
of the IESG action of last Thursday approving both our existing
documents issued, and then the tiny RFC gets us the normative requirements
we want at the same elapsed time that 1 would have taken.
So the right outcome in our minds (Larry, myself, Keith, and Harald)
is 2), so that more time does not elapse for proposed standard on HTTP/1.1.
By going ahead with the existing documents we get Proposed standard immediately,
without taking significantly longer elapsed time for the requirements we've
been discussing.
Larry didn't make clear in his mail what our options are procedurally, in
the current process state.
And we'll pull all this together into the Draft version of the document(s),
so that this strange short RFC we'll end with won't matter thereafter.
Hopefully, this will clarify the situation to everyone.
Aren't standards processes fun? :-)
- Jim
Do we presently have enough experience with 1.1 proxy implementations and how
they interoperate with the installed base to know that changes won't be required
in the proxy related aspects of the current draft?
I suppose additional patch/errata RFCs could be issued and later consolidated.
No. But this is why the standards process requires additional review
before a document can move from Proposed to Draft, or from Draft to Full
Standard.
Assuming the document stays on the standards track, there will be at
least two opportunities to make changes in light of experience before
it is fully approved.
Keith
If there are two more opportunities for changes it would seem to
me to be a good thing(TM) to keep a record of all the problems,
perceived errors etc as we go along
Just a thought... Would have raised it sooner but thought best
get the royal assent before making the suggestion.
Phill
Well, I thought it was pretty self-explanatory, but I'll elaborate
publicly:
If you look at draft-ietf-http-digest-aa-04.txt, it doesn't actually
put many requirements on either clients or servers. It says "a server
may assume Digest support when a client identifies itself as HTTP/1.1
compliant." So servers assume digest support. It says "a client is
encouraged to fail gracefully if the server specifies any
authentication scheme it cannot handle."
Since this is the language that we accepted through last call, it is
probably as strong a compliance statement we can make at this point,
without going back through another
revision. draft-ietf-http-digest-aa-04.txt does NOT say that clients
MUST prompt the user for authentication, or that clients MUST handle
digest authentication, all it says is that clients are encouraged to
fail gracefully (whatever that means) if it doesn't understand
digest. It does say "A server may assume Digest support", but it's not
clear what force that has on the clients. I suppose you could read "a
server may assume X support" as another way of specifying "a client
must support X".
This issue has arisen recently in the review of the MIME drafts of the
question of whether any mail clients 'support'
multipart/parallel. There are a lot of clients that 'support'
multipart/parallel by just treating it as multipart/mixed. Is that
'support'?
In any case, more tweaking of the language of the spec is not going to
be allowed without reopening one or both drafts in the working group.
I didn't hear anyone wanting to do that, actually, just people wanting
to vent their frustration.
What *is* the case is that HTTP/1.1 is fine, as is, for a Proposed
Standard, and that before we advance to Draft Standard and then
Standard, every feature must be implemented. The IETF process is set
up such that "what gets implemented affects what's allowed to be a
standard" rather than "what's a standard affects what gets
implemented". I think that's the strength of the process and that we
shouldn't try to change that.
This is really unfair, Paul. In the interest of getting on with
things, I sent a mail to the area directors, but I didn't respond
privately, I copied the list. If you actually disagree with my
recommendation, you have a chance to say so. I can't really tell from
your message whether you disagree. It's my understanding that we can't
actually add more constraints than are in the documents as written
without a reset to "last call" or (the alternative) writing a very
short RFC "applicability statement" and sending THAT into last call.
It sounds like you were reacting to my commentary rather than the
actual recommendation, though.
Larry
Personally, I don't see any point in a short RFC that says that you're
required to implement what's in draft-http-digest-aa-04.txt, because
*that* draft is pretty weak.
If working group members really want to REQUIRE that you MUST REALLY
implement digest authentication, I think we would have to revise
draft-http-digest-aa-04.txt so that it actually stated some
requirements where "MUST IMPLEMENT" actually meant something.
Personally, I think it's a waste of time. Little applicability
statements are the hobgoblins of ... well, you know how it goes.
We should focus on more important things, like the HTTP/1.2 documents.
The folks in distributed authoring and version management seem to also
want us to consider LINK and LOCK and UNLOCK and GET-VERSION and a
bunch of other things, too. We have lots of work.
I guess people can get excited about "MUST implement digest
authentication" but don't have time to actually make progress on
the _real_ problems.
Larry
Phill,
excellent idea - the list of issues approach has done wonders for the
DRUMS group, and I keep such a list of issues for the former NOTARY
group's documents.
Are you volunteering to keep such a list?
Harald A
I certainly have been keeping moderately careful note of mail messages
that go by that may want to affect the document. And certainly an issues
list has been useful in 1.1 development (though we let it get out of
date toward the end of development of HTTP/1.1).
I guess, for the moment, I'm probably happiest keeping track of this
myself for 1.1, though if someone wants to volunteer to help get
what I have filed organized into an issues list again, I wouldn't mind.
- Jim
