Hello List,
My fansite http://www.hoehnermusikfan.net/index.xhtml with many images
looked nice in previous versions, but it is a complete mess in Amaya 8.0
I downloaded yesterday, though I did not change anything. XHTML 1.1 and
CSS validate.
It is served it as application/xhtml+xml and looks nice in Opera 7.0
and Mozilla 1.3, but now in this new Amaya release it is really
terrible. I think a very terrible bug must exist in this version,
especcially in floating images.
Greetings
Ineke van der Maat
Hallo John
Thanks for your mail with attachment.
Your are right, in previous releases the images did not float left and
right.
But the site was shown nice with text below the not floated images.
I thought that you know that msie 6.0 also can not show sites served as
application/xhtml+xml. Therefore you can see the same site served as
text/html. Look http://www.hoehnermusikfan.net. Even this is a mess in
Amaya 8.0. with the floating images.
But also previous Amaya versions showed the real html-version as a mix
between the stylesheet for Netscape 4.7/WebtV and other browsers, due
probably to the javascript in the html-version that sends the stylesheet
to browsers. Amaya is the only browser I know that shows this fansite
differently when it is served as text/html or as application/xhtml+xml.
Besites line 85 is empty in the xhtml version, in one of the 2
css-files for the homepage I can find: .HeadNavbar { and in the other
CSS-file on that line 85 : color: #c00;.
I don't see any error.You perhaps?
Greetings
Ineke
On Thu, 1 May 2003 12:18:32 +0200
I'll have a look at the floatting boxes problem as soon as possible.
Thanks for the report
Irene.
Ir?ne Vatton INRIA Rh?ne-Alpes
INRIA ZIRST
e-mail: Irene.Vatton@inria.fr 655 avenue de l'Europe
On Thu, 1 May 2003 13:27:32 +0200
One difference should be the default encoding: UTF-8 for xml and
ISO-8859-1 for html.
A second difference is a control of wellformness.
Irene.
Ir?ne Vatton INRIA Rh?ne-Alpes
INRIA ZIRST
e-mail: Irene.Vatton@inria.fr 655 avenue de l'Europe
