I am a little bit confused here, but the page on http://www.w3.org/DOM/Test/
says that a sourceforge project has been made and can be found at
Unfortunately, only an empty page can be found on that link.
Where I am working we are currently writing tests for DOM L1+L2, and we
consider to contribute if
the system you are using works ok.
I tried to access it by CVS, and I found that a project has been created,
but it seems that there are no
modules created within that project. (By scanning CVSROOT/modules)
Where can I find these XML and XSLT scripts that are needed to generates the
tests?
Is this project independent of the xmlconf project on sourceforge
(I noticed that they have a www-dom-ts folder, but I did not find the test
XML-document)
Best regards
Birdstep Technology Jan-Arve S?ther
Office: +47 24 13 47 00 Programmer
Web: www.birdstep.com
The tests are available from the W3C CVS server in module 2001/DOM-Test-Suite See http://dev.w3.org/cvsweb/dev.w3.org for details on anonymous access.
The tests are built using Ant 1.4 (http://jakarta.apache.org). Last time I checked, it was necessary to remove crimson and xalan from the Ant distribution with Xalan 2.1 due to a bug that caused
Xalan to fail, but I haven't confirmed that is still a problem. You must have SED and PATCH on your path before invoking Ant. Currently, we build tests for Java (using Junit http://www.junit.org)
and ECMAScript (using JSUnit, http://www.jsunit.net), support for other bindings is anticipated, but not currently available.
domconftest.sourceforge.net was set up so that we could use SourceForge's tracker bug database, but has been inactive.
I personally was the primary developer of the xmlconf.sourceforge.net's DOM related tests (which were mostly derived from NIST's work) and have been very involved in the NIST/W3C effort, so though
they are organizationally independent, there is a lot of commonality. The www-dom-ts stuff on xmlconf is out of date.
NIST is working on their DOM Level 2 submission currently and hopefully will commit them shortly.
Hope that is enough to get you started. If not, let us know what operating system and binding you are working with.
Hi Jan-Arve
Please provide your input on the framework that is described at
original posting, as we want to make sure that anyone who so wishes can
contribute to the DOM TS framework.
You are able to browse the CVS repository for individual files, such as
the transforms you mention, and you are also able to anonymously check
out the entire module anonymously in order to build the suite and look
at the source code.
There will be a downloadable version of the DOM TS available at
have time to provide valuable feedback before we release the firt
version.
/Dimitris
