rdfms-xmllang: Why isn't xml:lang information represented within the RDF
data model?
This was put on hold whilst we looked at datatypes.
Model and Syntax says that lang is part of the literal; that no triples
are
generated for an xml:lang. We can choose to stick with that or change it.
Does anyone have a compelling reason to change it?
My proposal before we put it on hold was in the overly long:
[1]
An RDF Literal is a Unicode string, optionally paired with a
language tag (as defined in RFC3066).
in that thread we identified equally rules as follows:
suggesting that such pairs are equal
if and only if
the unicode strings are equal
and
the lang tags are either both absent, or both present and equal (as lang
tags, i.e. case insensitive).
This then works orthogonally with:
- the graph syntax
- model theory
- datatyping
- any treatment of Unicode string normalization
Jeremy
In preparation for our discussion next week, I'd like to note some of
the sub-issues.
- In XML, xml:lang is inherited. This means that, in XML, there is a
large number of ways to achieve the same set of associations between
strings and languages. This may not matter in RDF as long as there
is no more than one language per string. However ...
- A string may contain sub-strings in different languages. RDF
doesn't, IIRC, support a semantically neutral carrier equivalent to
xhtml:span . Thus there is currently no way to represent
multilingual strings in "first class" RDF. One reason for not
associating arcs with string language is that one could very easily
break any possibility of matching multilingual strings.
- RFC 3066 defines exact and approximate matching (I don't recall the
actual terminology) between language tags. For instance, "en-us"
precisely matches "en-us" and approximately matches "en".
- I don't think the proposal:
is right, as a string without a language tag would not match one
with. A consequence would be that people would be discouraged from
language tagging their strings, in case other people haven't tagged
*their* strings.
- The above seems to suggest that degrees of fuzziness are required, at
user option, as with regular search engines.
- All of the above is closely related to other "control" constructs
needed for correctly writing text in different languages, eg BiDi
controls for BiDirectional languages. Though Math(s) is a language
in quite a different sense, the same problem arises. Let's say the
title of a paper contains something that can't be expressed in plain
text, eg an integral from value A to value B. How do I do this in
RDF and how will others match on it?
Misha
rdfms-xmllang: Why isn't xml:lang information represented within the RDF
This was put on hold whilst we looked at datatypes.
Model and Syntax says that lang is part of the literal; that no triples
generated for an xml:lang. We can choose to stick with that or change it.
Does anyone have a compelling reason to change it?
Visit our Internet site at http://www.reuters.com
Any views expressed in this message are those of the individual
sender, except where the sender specifically states them to be
the views of Reuters Ltd.
[snipped]
I agree.
I don't think that's necessary. How about the following rules:
Literals are equal iff:
1) the strings are equal, and
2a) at least one string does not have a tag, or
2b) one tag is a prefix of the other within the meaning of RFC 3066
(i.e. "fr"/French is not a prefix of "fry"/Frisian but is a prefix
of "FR-CA"/Canadian French).
This treats a missing tag as synonymous with the RFC 3066 language range
"*", which matches any tag.
John Cowan jcowan@reutershealth.com http://www.reutershealth.com
I amar prestar aen, han mathon ne nen, http://www.ccil.org/~cowan
han mathon ne chae, a han noston ne 'wilith. --Galadriel, _LOTR:FOTR_
At the plenary, in discussion with Misha and Martin, it became clear that
there are two equalities needed.
The RDF specs need a mathematically rigorous and transitive equality. User
applications probably want an equality following John's proposal.
The RDF specs need to clarify that application developers are not misled
that the transitive equality is normative for all uses.
The RDF Core has agreed that the definition of equality is as I earlier
indicated, with exact (case insensitive) matching of lang-tags.
Misha suggested that we should use a note to clarify this.
Thus I propose that text such as the following is included near the
definition of literal equality:
NOTE: This definition of equality is appropriate when constructing an RDF
graph, when checking an RDF test case, and when interpreting an RDF graph
according to the RDF model theory. In other contexts it is usually more
appropriate to use the methods described in RFC 3066 treating a missing
language tag as "*".
I was wondering where this might be put. The primer?
Brian
Brian--
This note doesn't strike me as the kind of thing that ought to go *only*
in the Primer, although it might well go there in addition to someplace
else. It sounds like an important qualification for RDF developers, and
I don't think it should be *necessary* for people to read the Primer to
get this type of information.
--Frank
Frank Manola The MITRE Corporation
202 Burlington Road, MS A345 Bedford, MA 01730-1420
