Hi. Using amaya 1.3a on a Debian 1.3.1 box and
having a problem saving the page to the server. The
message I get is:
"Failed to save to URL http://www.etc.etc.
Access to http://www.etc.etc is forbidden
by rule Save to disk."
I don't understand what this 'rule Save to disk' is.
Are there any suggestions?
thanks,
tony mollica
tmollica@thegrid.net
Hello Tony,
by rule == one of your httpd server's access control rules.
Should be cleared if we change it to say "by your server".
I don't know if you're authorized to write to the server, though. If
it's so, there's a bug in the current release when editing a remote file.
Amaya reports that the save failed, even though it succeded.
To go around it, add to your thot.rc (or .thotrc file) the following
line:
NO_REREAD_CHECK=yes
We already fixed this bug and it'll be out in a forthcoming minor release.
Note that the syntax of the above rule will change to:
DISABLE_PUT_CHECK
(or some other nicer sounding name).
Hope this helps,
Thanks for your feedback.
-Jose
In our previous episode, tony mollica said:
Thanks for the quick reply.
I do have write permission to the server,
that is I can ftp in to my directory and
'put' the files in and I can publish with
the Netscape web page editor with no problems.
I've tried every combination of http and ftp
paths I can think of, but the file doesn't show
up in my home page directory. I'll add the
switch to .thotrc to see if that helps.
Also, I noticed that I get Thot tool kit errors
54 and 55 in the xterm that Amaya was run from.
Any clue where I can find more info on this?
thanks,
tony mollica
tmollica@thegrid.net
Tony,
In our previous episode, tony mollica said:
Amaya can publish only thru HTTP. FTP publication
is not supported and results in an error message
in the status bar.
Did you try to do an HTTP PUT (publish) using Netscape?
If this doesn't work, your HTTP server may be misconfigured.
There's a Help item (top right button) describing how the
Publishing process works. It also gives some hints on how
to configure the httpd server.
I've tested Amaya 1.3a against both Apache and Jigsaw and
have had no problems to publish from different platforms.
This was a bug that's now fixed. Instead of getting a
"Authentication failed. Retry?" dialogue, you are getting
those errors. Probably Amaya prompted you for a password
and you gave a wrong one. Also, there were some authentication
bugs in libwww which complicated the reuse of authentication
information. Thus, sometimes you could see many requests for
passwords while accessing a protected site. I talk in the past
as all of these bugs have been fixed since then.
Tell me if your server was misconfigured. Looking at the server
logs may give some other clues.
We'll soon have a minor release ready with the bug fixes.
Note that I was able to publish even when those bugs existed.
Thanks for keeping us update.
-Jose
I always use ftp publishing. Is Amaya going to ftp sometime soon?
Jim FitzSimons
If you change the rule, please only use positive rules: Make it
something like REREADCHECK or PUT_CHECK and not disable_.... or
no_....!!! This avoids problems for peoples who don't read english verry
well. Specially the no_... version is often misunderstood as the
NumberOf_...... I would have the NO_REREAD_CHECK given a number value: 0
for none and 2 for twice!.
So for this (new) rule:
PUT_CHECK=true
Corne
Try not to let implementation details sneak into design documents.
Corne' Beerse| Alcatel Telecom Nederland
Hello Jim,
In our previous episode, Jim FitzSimons said:
Well, as Amaya is a testbed for W3C specifications, it's natural we
give a priority to HTTP publishing :)
Anyway, there's a new implementation of ftp inside libwww. If I have
the time and it doesn't cost much, I'll see if we can integrate it.
Cheers,
-Jose
Corne,
Thanks for your remarks. I changed the names of the obtuse configuration
rules to something more friendly.
When the minor release is out, take a look at the Configurating file from
the on-line menu to see the new names. I'll also send a dedicated
mail to the list after the release.
In our previous episode, Corne Beerse said:
-Jose
