Hi folks,
This is the usual weekly call for agenda items for the telecon, which I
need by noon uk time, Thursday.
My possibles list currently includes:
o canonicalization
o charmod uri
o f2f decisions: effects on model theory
o datatypes: issues with current proposal
o there are two kinds of literals (ordinary and xml literals) and each
is a pair
o schedule
o primer status
o test cases status
o schema status
Brian
I am currently unclear what I need to do to move this forward.
I fear that my earlier postings this week may not have been helpful.
(Other than having got some useful input from the C14N people)
Options include (one of):
- I make a detailed proposal based on my earlier postings
- I present test cases of pairs of RDF/XML documents including xml literals
that may or may not be the same
- I discuss round-tripping, for example in an RSS use case, starting from a
minimalist approach of "let's just treat the element content as a self
contained string of well-balanced xml, and if its missing bits that's an
error", and the assumption that an RDF/XML document can pass unharmed
through an XSLT processor.
I am also interested in what the WG thinks about xml literal equality. M&amp;S
explicitly does not specify such an operation.
We could choose to:
- not specify equality
- specify equality only for test cases
- specify equality only for test cases and the model theory
- definitively specify equality
I believe that any choice other than the first of these, will involve some
(possibly non-normative) dependency on C14N.
Bits of an example test case are:
AND
I would like a short slot on the agenda to get feedback about next steps.
o charmod uri
I think we can make substantial progress on both I18N issues by agreeing a
response to the test case examples I posted in:
Do we think:
1: this is an RDF problem (i.e. present in the graph)
2: this is an XML problem (i.e. present in the XML serialization only)
3: this is not a problem (e.g. to be addressed, if at all, at the
application layer)
(More - rambling ...)
Given such a response I could go away and draft resolutions to both issues,
and justify them on that basis.
If 2 or 3 then we should document that and close the charmod-literal issue.
(If these examples are not compelling then I don't think that there will be
compelling examples). The charmod-uri issue is not impacted by this test
case.
If 1 then a solution is:
- prohibit RDF string literals that are not in NFC.
- treat a URI before %-escaping and its %-escaped version as distinct in the
RDF graph
- explicitly allow the uriReference production to match original character
sequence (in UTF-8) URIs.
- prohibit the use of non NFC 'URIs' in RDF.
I note that the issue is exemplified by the archive web page, looking at the
in-line RDF example with Internet Explorer 5.5, and looking at the same
example with view source. Depending on what tools you have available you may
or may not get the same effect.
The view I have displays the two "#Andre" strings identically (which
conforms with unicode), whereas my view source mode does not.
Jeremy
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA1
I'd just defer the write up and do test cases with some comments.
If enough people need more after that, maybe a write up is in
order.
Why not treat roundtripping as a sequence of test cases?
I believe you're correct.
Bill
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: PGP 7.0.4
iQA/AwUBPIfIv+aWiFwg2CH4EQK5vgCgv5F5kSaIR8ZTCVkXkXqSA1tKay8An1xo
YvLRFrhIr/bFtLGSPxZLuFIM
=icta
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
