Let me try to put some order regarding the usage of
horizontal rules, both "normal" and graphical.
1. General purpose of horizontal rules:
horizontal rules are used as dividers withing a document.
The concept originates from print medium.
In visual media the exact meaning of the rule is understood
by the surrounding blocks of text, as well as the width of the rule
and possibly other visual features such as color or style
(dotted, inset etc.)
2. Horizontal rules in HTML documents:
2.1 The HR element.
In the strict version of HTML 4.0 its appearance in visual and other
media can be affected by stylesheets.
HR accepts the title attribute, that allows authors to associate text
to the rule.
HTML 4 transitional allows to effect the visual presentation of a rule
by choosing its width (relative to window's width), size (thickness),
alignment (relative to window).
Some user agents suport a color attribute (that does not exist in
any spec that I know of)
2.2 Graphical and "styled" rules.
Stylesheets can be used to add style to
the rule (using border properties) its width (using margins
and text alignment) etc. Also by defining padding and a
background image to a HR element one can create a graphical rule.
(in this regard there is an interesting article by Flavell,
excuse me for not mentioning the exact reference)
An advantage of this method is that the width of the rule
is detrmined by the window's width, and is not fixed in pixels like
when using IMG.
Another way is not to use the HR element, but to insert a
graphical rule using the IMG element.
Some authors use a TABLE and color the (textless) cells
in order to create a multicolor rule.
3. Problems with non-visual media:
Users of non-visual media cannot understand the the
meaning of the rule via its visual aspects.
Thus we ask:
What method (HR or IMG) is preferable?
How to associate text with a rule (title, alt etc)
What text makes sense.
4. My opinion for accessibility guidelines:
4.1. Using the HR element is preferrable to using IMG or
other elements.
Stylesheets may be used to create a large
variety of colors, styles, and background images, for
the visual media.
4.2. The title attribute is the only way to associate text
to the HR element. The text should generate the function of the rule.
E.g., HR title="Footnotes:" or HR title="End of example"
"Deprecated" methods:
4.3. In case one uses the IMG element the alt attribute should be used for
generating the function of the rule.
e.g.: DIV align=center IMG src="rule.gif" alt="Footnotes:" /DIV
4.4. In case one uses a TABLE and coloring the cells.
In this case, it seems the best is to use the title
of the table for providing text and put nbsp characters in all cells.
Note: I am very much against drawing the rule (in the alt) even in
addition to text. This method is very much platform dependent and
relies on the appearance of rules in visual non graphical user agents
(notably Lynx), but doesn't make much sense otherwise.
5. Misuse of the HR element.
Some authors use the HR element to create decoration to headings etc.
This usage of HR should be deprected in favor of stylesheets.
Regards,
Nir Dagan.
CSS 2 makes it possible to associate an audio cue with the HR element.
In some circumstances, this may suffice as an auditory analogue of the
horizontal rule. I would also suggest that it is preferable to indicate
structure by means of the DIV element rather than the horizontal rule,
since the former allows hierarchies to be generated, as in the following
example:
Given a structure of the form outlined above, a user agent could provide
navigation options which facilitate efficient traversal of the hierarchy,
for example as a means of gaining an overview of the document or locating
sections of interest in the absence of an adequate table of contents. The
use of HR alone to indicate divisions within the document would offer no
representation in the HTML markup of its structural organisation. If both
HR and DIV are used together, then the functionality of the TITLE
attribute of one of these elements becomes redundant.
Jason White said:
I would also suggest that it is preferable to indicate
structure by means of the DIV element rather than the horizontal rule,
Nir:
I agree. I did not attemp to promote the usage of rules, but rather
to think of mechanisms to assure correct rendering in non-visual media.
With rules it seems more difficult than with headings or paragraphs,
as many authors heavily rely on the visual presentation of rules.
I was more in "how to fix damages done with horizontal rules", rather
than "use horizontal rules for structure".
Jason:
since the former allows hierarchies to be generated, as in the following
example:
Nir:
I think that even better would be:
The fact that it is part 1 or chapter 2 should be presented in the content
of the DIVs, e.g., by the headings.
As DIV is a generic style container, using classes will enable the
author to use one class system to provide different styles to different media.
For example, if some additional text is needed in aural medium, the author
may use genereted text for that. It could be that in visual media the
structure will be better presented without that text, but with background
colors, for example.
Actually just writing a DIV without attributes may be OK sometimes,
by giving style rules like:
DIV P {property}
DIV DIV P {property}
Jason:
Nir:
I agree that using only HR for divisions is not a good idea.
The classical HTML method of presenting divisions is using headings
H1,...,H6. The DIV method should not replace headings but should come in
addition, as DIV is a style container and documents must be well presented
without stylesheets.
The DIV method has a structural advantage over headings alone, (as noted by
Jason) since the HTML document tree becomes identical with the logical
organization of text of the document. When "nesting" headings they are
not nested in the formal HTML/SGML sense.
Regards,
Nir Dagan.
I think this is one area in which input from the user agent guidelines
group would be helpful: should the title be presented in the DIV element
so that the browser can easily present a structural overview of the
document, or would it be preferable simply to make use of CLASS values in
DIV and leave the title of each section to be designated by a heading, or
perhaps even a TITLE in the HR element? I agree that contextualised style
rules, such as can easily be constructed with CSS selectors, will often
obviate the necessity of making the structure of the document explicit by
including a CLASS attribute in each DIV element. However, since the level
of nesting may vary from one document to another, it may be helpful to
define standardised CLASS values that represent different types of
structural division. This topic relates, as has previously been remarked,
to the "reading order" problem, namely the need to establish a means of
modifying the sequence in which the structural components of the document
are rendered in different media.
