Hello! I took a stab at reworking our definition of Web accessibility. Mainly I took Judy's language and moved it around some. Feel free to add, edit, shred!
Best,
Sarah
What is Web Accessibility?
An accessible Web can be used by people with disabilities.
To this end, Web accessibility is an effort to integrate accessible components into the Web. These components include:
- content that is presented in a way that can be perceived, operated, navigated, and understood by people with disabilities;
-software used to access the Web that can be used by people with disabilities, and that works with technologies that some people with disabilities use; and
-software used to build Web sites that can be used by people with disabilities, and that supports the creation of accessible Web sites.
Web accessibility also:
- benefits other users of the Web; and
- is a requirement for some Web sites and Web applications in certain countries.
Another possibility to mull over (condensing of Judy's and Sarah's
versions):
What is Web Accessibility?
An accessible Web can be used by people with disabilities. Web accessibility
includes:
-- Creating content that can be perceived, operated, navigated, and
understood by people with disabilities.
-- Making browsers, multimedia players, and other software used to access
Web sites more usable by people with disabilities.
-- Developing software for producing Web sites that can be used by people
with disabilities and that support the creation of accessible Web sites.
Web accessibility also:
-- Benefits other users of the Web.
-- Is a requirement for some Web sites and Web applications in certain
countries.
Also:
1. The title of the presentation - Overview of the Web Accessibility
Initiative - is misleading for me. It leads me to believe that the
presentation will be solely about WAI, not about Web accessibility and what
WAI does to achieve it.
Possible alternative: Web Accessibility and the W3C Web Accessibility
Initiative
This title is longish but covers the slide content (first section of slides
on Web Accessibility, two slides on W3C, and last section on WAI.
2. I think Slide 1 could more accurately reflect the slide show content.
3. Three of the six style choices for the slide show are not entirely
accessible - i.e, I cannot read some of the text! Is it possible to create
new styles for the show? Revise some? I am familiar with CSS and can work on
this.
4. I've sent other editorial/grammatical suggestions to Judy.
Regards,
Blossom
Blossom Michaeloff
Web Research &amp; Design
Wells Fargo
415.222.3045
michaeka@wellsfargo.com
After all these years, I really think that this should be at the top
(rather than as an "oh, by the way" item) - in the form "Web accessibility
benefits all users of the Web" (incidentally, even including PWD).
The real/main/important/primary/inclusive/overarching feature of "Universal
Design" is that it is in fact UNIVERSAL. That in some enlightened places it
is also the law matters some. That it's nice not to exclude people who have
traditionally been overlooked (except for their exclusion) is secondary to
what WAI has pointed the way to: a Web that is usable by everyone and has
its semantics stored therein.
As we undertook to formulate guidelines for the purpose of making the Web
accessible for PWD we discovered that what we proposed should be done
routinely so that everyone could use the Web. The absurd "resistances" we
encountered along the way merely reflected ancient prejudices within most
(all?) cultures that demean/overlook/exclude PWD.
There has never been any logical reason that the semantics of Web content
not be available and when we did XAG we even found an abstract way to
express this - in very general, but concrete terms.
Love.
It's Bad Luck to be Superstitious!
[removed cross-posting to PFWG mailing list; forwarding my reply to that
list. please do not cross-post, especially to lists in different access
spaces -- thanks.]
I disagree that we should introduce PWD as being incidental to what Web
accessibility is about. I think that _after_ a listing of the basics is
where the "benefits all users" belongs.
I think it's fine to cover this elsewhere in the presentation, which we do,
but to lead with it takes away from the point of Web accessibility being to
increase access for people with disabilities.
- Judy
Judy Brewer +1.617.258.9741 http://www.w3.org/WAI
Director, Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI), World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)
MIT/LCS Room NE43-355, 200 Technology Square, Cambridge, MA, 02139, USA
I like the direction on this -- great re-organization of what we were
trying to say, but still seems wordy &amp; jargony in a few areas (e.g.,
repetition of "components"). Also like the sub-bullets leading with
"content" "software" etc
- Judy
Judy Brewer +1.617.258.9741 http://www.w3.org/WAI
Director, Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI), World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)
MIT/LCS Room NE43-355, 200 Technology Square, Cambridge, MA, 02139, USA
I like the condensed lead-in. But I think Sarah's "content that..."
"software used to..." is easier to follow than "creating" "making" etc.
It's not the process but the result that is our end goal. Other comments below.
i think this part reads better if we leave out the "also"
i don't understand the contradiction; it _is_ about wai, but necessarily
talking wai involves talking about web accessibility.
pretty long; still don't understand why clarification is necessary. are
other people getting a jolt of surprise when they read the content of the
presentation, compared to the name? any shorter ways that we could clarify
this, if so?
needs to be updated and condensed. suggestions would be helpful.
we have already noted the need to send revision requests to the slidemaker
tool editor (different w3c people have been working on recently) requesting
repairs to the style sheet problems, and more caution with future revisions
to the tool. when i revised the source file for these slides, the slides
re-generated from a somewhat experimental version of the tool. this is a
known problem that we are following up on. we have already received
recommended style sheet fixes.
thanks
Judy
Judy Brewer +1.617.258.9741 http://www.w3.org/WAI
Director, Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI), World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)
MIT/LCS Room NE43-355, 200 Technology Square, Cambridge, MA, 02139, USA
