Hi,
I have a couple of questions related to the W3C wcag v1.0.
Checkpoint 1.1 advises "Provide a text equivalent for every non-text
element". This includes: 'Graphical representations of text' and 'Frames'
1.Can you please explain how this checkpoint relates to 'Frames' as I'm a
little unclear as to what the text equivalent should actually be, is it a
frame 'title' or should you provide a completely different non-frames page
with the same content?
2.I fully understand that all graphics/images etc should have Alt-tags for
screen readers etc. However, is guideline 1.1 also saying that graphics
used to display text should also have an alternative provided as text? I
presume this would be aid users who need to enlarge or change the colour of
text and those whose systems cannot interpret graphics?
Thanks
Russ
The information contained in or attached to this email is
intended only for the use of the individual or entity to
which it is addressed. If you are not the intended
recipient, or a person responsible for delivering it to the
intended recipient, you are not authorised to and must not
disclose, copy, distribute, or retain this message or any
part of it. It may contain information which is confidential
and/or covered by legal professional or other privilege (or
other rules or laws with similar effect in jurisdictions
outside England and Wales).
The views expressed in this email are not necessarily the
views of Centrica plc, and the company, its directors,
officers or employees make no representation or accept any
liability for its accuracy or completeness unless expressly
stated to the contrary.
I'll let someone with more knowledge on frames jump in here
yes,
no screen reader can read the text because it sees them as a graphic
Bob
/"\ ASCII Ribbon Campaign accessBob .-.
\ / NO HTML/PDF/RTF in e-mail accessys@smartnospam.net /v\
X NO MSWord docs in e-mail Access Systems, engineers // \\
/ \ NO attachments in e-mail equal access is a civil right /( _ )\
THIS message and any attachements are CONFIDENTIAL and may be
privleged. They are intended ONLY for the individual or entity named
above. If you are not the intended recipient, Please notify the sender as
soon as possible. Please DO NOT READ, COPY, USE, or DISCLOSE this
communication to others and DELETE it from your computer systems. Thanks
Russell,
The Techniques for Web Content Accessibility page addresses the
subject of frames in more detail and provides code examples. See
and
to descriptions of a frame should be provided along with other
alternative content in the NOFRAMES element of a FRAMESET."
What you will need to put between your NOFRAMES tags to ensure access
for people whose user agents don't display frames will depend on the
content of your site. A set of navigational links that duplicates
your top (or side) navigation menu may suffice.
(And as you mention, frames and framesets must also be given
meaningful titles.)
Jo Miller
jo@bendingline.com
