I tried to write down the things I know about how to edit specs in a group. I
figure that it is a bit different from most of the discussion on this list,
but I don't have another idea about a good place to talk about it
(suggestions welcome).
It is also based on my experience, which is mostly with WAI specs, and it is
very incomplete. But I would welcome comments (like "this is a useeful thing
to write down", or "this is rubbish - we don't want to hear about it", or
even suggestions to edit it...)
Anyway, a URI http://www.w3.org/2001/05/spec-process
chaals
Location: 21 Mitchell street FOOTSCRAY Vic 3011, Australia
(or W3C INRIA, Route des Lucioles, BP 93, 06902 Sophia Antipolis Cedex, France)
The writeup seems quite specific to WAI, but I still think it's good to
document such things. I agree with pretty much all of the general advice,
except that on occasion I have inserted "candidate wording" into a spec
(marking it as such) so that my group could see it in context.
One thing we started doing in the Linking group during periods of high
activity was to send out weekly drafts showing the decisions made the
previous week, along with a "diff" version generated by a process that
compares the old and new XML, and sets the diff attributes (which get used
by the diffspec stylesheet to produce change bars). Norm did the
comparison tool; I haven't been able to get it running myself, but he was
kind enough to run it for me.
Eve
Eve Maler +1 781 442 3190
Sun Microsystems XML Technology Development eve.maler @ east.sun.com
Such a tool would be very valuable to many people. Any chance to
make it available, Norm?
Regards, Martin.
/ Martin Duerst duerst@w3.org was heard to say:
Already done. See http://www.sun.com/xml/developers/diffmk/
This is a Perl implementation, but I've got plans to do it in Java
which should make it more portable.
Be seeing you,
norm
Norman.Walsh@Sun.COM | The art of living is more like wrestling than
XML Standards Engineer | dancing.--Marcus Aurelius
Technology Dev. Group |
Sun Microsystems, Inc. |
I added the idea that making changes visible in the documentation is a good
thing. And a link to Norm's tool - thanks Norm. I'll add a bit more about
ways of clarifying that next time I play with it, like "candidate wording"
and why it is helpful to see things in context like that.
cheers
Charles
[snip]
One thing we started doing in the Linking group during periods of high
activity was to send out weekly drafts showing the decisions made the
previous week, along with a "diff" version generated by a process that
compares the old and new XML, and sets the diff attributes (which get used
by the diffspec stylesheet to produce change bars). Norm did the
comparison tool; I haven't been able to get it running myself, but he was
kind enough to run it for me.
Eve
