Our university faculty often want to use the same videos for their distance
learning courses that they use in face-to-face classes. Our multimedia
specialists can convert videos for streaming or CD-ROMs. They can even add
tracks for captions and audio description. One thing we're trying to figure
out, though, is how to get the captions and descriptions.
The things I've read from the Caption Center and from Joe Clark lead me to
believe that we need skilled professionals to describe and transcribe
videos.
Unfortunately, people here seem to think we should teach students to do
captions and audio descriptions. Other proposals include not allowing video
for distance learning courses at all, or only allowing faculty to use videos
that come captioned and described.
Does anyone know of schools that have faced this issue squarely and that
could serve as good examples for how to support accessibility for videos
used in distance learning classes?
Jeff Hiles
Instructional Web Designer
Center for Teaching and Learning
Wright State University
Dayton, Ohio 45435
(937) 775-3181
jeffrey.hiles@wright.edu
Of course they do! It's cheaper! :)
I suppose if they are dead-set against professional captioning, you
-could- pay for the skilled professionals to come in and provide
expert training on a periodic basis, to your underpaid student
workers. It -could- inspire some of them to further explore the
field and spark their own interests. And that would mean more
audio description professionals in a few years...
Or, at least, one could always hope.
--Kynn, looking for the silver lining
Kynn Bartlett kynn@reef.com
Technical Developer Liaison
Reef North America
Accessibility - W3C - Integrator Network
Tel +1 949-567-7006
BUSINESS IS DYNAMIC. TAKE CONTROL.
Hi, Jeff:
NCAM, based at WGBH, is currently working with MIT to make an on-line physics course accessible to blind, visually impaired, deaf and hard-of-hearing users. The on-line course is called PIVoT (Physics Interactive Video Tutor) and contains hundreds of multimedia clips. You can read about the project at
Read all the information here first and take a look at the multimedia clips, then visit the MIT PIVoT Web site at
MIT students are are writing all the captions and descriptions using MAGpie. You can download your own free copy of the software from
Let me know if you have further questions.
Geoff Freed
Project Manager, Access to PIVoT
CPB/WGBH National Center for Accessible Media
WGBH Educational Foundation
geoff_freed@wgbh.org
Well, if you are prepared to train students to the level of skilled
professionals they are bound to do a good job.
Seriously, captioning is mostly a matter of transcribing - taking dictation.
Students would have the advantage that they are likely to be familiar with
the material, and the disadvantage that they are not necessarily accurate
(plagiarism is normally discouraged, so the first thing many students learn
is paraphrasing, which is not always helpful here).
Not presenting the videos, assuming they are useful in the first place, is a
really silly idea. Distance education is hard enough as a student, and I
would simply choose another university very very fast if one I was at adopted
a policy like that.
Not using stuff that isn't captioned and described is a good policy,
especially if the university is prepared to provide funding to ensure that
the best stuff they can get that isn't yet captioned and described can become
so.
There are a number of UNiversities in Australia doing distance education who
are looking at these issues, and I suspect a number in the US too. There is
also a fairly large market in educational content, so I suspect that as
accessibility of content becomes important to universities there is a
secondary market in captions and descriptions to go with it.
In Australia this faces almost every university (distance education is very
common), but each is a seperate organisation. Looking for the Disability
Liaison officers would be the way I would go about it (but I haven't looked
far into it so I might be wrong here) - they are the ones who will get the
complaints first.
Cheers
Charles
Our university faculty often want to use the same videos for their distance
learning courses that they use in face-to-face classes. Our multimedia
specialists can convert videos for streaming or CD-ROMs. They can even add
tracks for captions and audio description. One thing we're trying to figure
out, though, is how to get the captions and descriptions.
The things I've read from the Caption Center and from Joe Clark lead me to
believe that we need skilled professionals to describe and transcribe
videos.
Unfortunately, people here seem to think we should teach students to do
captions and audio descriptions. Other proposals include not allowing video
for distance learning courses at all, or only allowing faculty to use videos
that come captioned and described.
Does anyone know of schools that have faced this issue squarely and that
could serve as good examples for how to support accessibility for videos
used in distance learning classes?
Location: 21 Mitchell street FOOTSCRAY Vic 3011, Australia
(or W3C INRIA, Route des Lucioles, BP 93, 06902 Sophia Antipolis Cedex, France)
