I am a little unsure how it is intended that views on documents be shared.
If I should be looking elsewhere please advise me.
Having studied the relevant parts of http://www.w3.org/TR/1999/WD-WAI-PAGEAUTH-19990226/ these are my thoughts
0.0
Where possible sites should be transparent in meaning without the use of text.
~1-5% of the adult population are non-readers.
1.0 Provide text equivalents for text.
ensure that the minimum text is used that conveys the meaning, with links to details.
~50% have a vocabulary of 2k words.
1.01
Provide data in site titles (meta tabs) as to number of words used and readability (flesch reading ease).
1.1
Provide a means in the common browsers for:
turning off text labels (ALT) for non-readers.
excluding complex or lengthy sites (1.01), conversely trite or youthful ones
z.z
Provide tabs for text in HTML
Jonathan Chetwynd
jay@peepo.com
SignBrowser
Hi,
Is such data likely to be useful? I for one have no idea what a certain
number in the Flesch scale means.
We are going to have a problem with this one anyway though. I can just
imagine webmasters saying, "if we provide data on how easy our web pages
are to read, people will think that they're aimed at those speaking
English as a second language, and therefore not read them."
Maybe it would be better to put it in a new kind of tag (like the ALT
tag does at present), and let the browser display it? Eg.
That way, different browsers can decide how best to display it (and you
can always hack out an HTML filter if you want to use any browser), and
people who don't need the information don't get it.
If it's possible to crawl the whole site (as Mike Vorburger did with one
of his ALTifier programs) then the word count / reading level
information can probably be generated automatically. (Not so with
filters though because they only process the page you're looking at.)
I thought that ALT tags do not get displayed when images are turned on.
However, I can add an option to my access gateway to remove ALT tags if
that's what you really want. (Or if there's anything else you can think
of that a filter can do, within reason)
Can you elaborate? I'm not sure what you mean.
Regards
-- Silas S Brown, St John's College Cambridge UK http://epona.ucam.org/~ssb22/
"Return your sword to its place, for all those who take the sword will
perish by the sword" - Matthew 26:52
I am a little unsure how it is intended that views on documents be shared.
If I should be looking elsewhere please advise me.

Last call comments about the guidelines should go to the guidelines group at
w3c-wai-gl@w3.org
If you could add specific pointers to the present guidelines to where you
think your suggestions could be incorporated I'm sure they will find that
particularly helpful.
other comments in my next email...
Leonard R. Kasday, Ph.D.
Universal Design Engineer, Institute on Disabilities/UAP, and
Adjunct Professor, Electrical Engineering
Temple University
Ritter Hall Annex, Room 423, Philadelphia, PA 19122
kasday@acm.org
(215} 204-2247 (voice)
(800) 750-7428 (TTY)
z.z this is not altogether flippant, why is the provider of a multimedia
sensory experience named HTML?
A touch of the academicians, perhaps.
Providing tags for text might be an appropriate nod to other input.
Text labels tend to just pop up, if one can turn them off in IE4 or NN
please let me no sorry is that know? color me dun.
Flesch(-Kincaid) is used in Office97. There are others some advertise how
they work, the number of words with more than 2 syllables in a sentence,
passive sentences, clauses. I am sure you get the picture.
'Here we go' = 100% or year 0.0 By no means the whole truth, but an aid.
jay@peepo.com
OK got the picture. I've now added an option to remove ALT tags. It's
under Options and it's disabled by default; if you're using it then make
sure you also disable the sight-related options as obviously the two
interests conflict. Alternatively just go to
rsulting page can be bookmarked etc.
Hope this helps.
Regards
-- Silas S Brown, St John's College Cambridge UK http://epona.ucam.org/~ssb22/
"Let him who thinks he is standing beware that he does not fall"
- 1 Corinthians 10:12
Yes, there is some history embedded in the name. One of the key advantages
of the Web when it was new was the hyper-linking feature that would take
you straight to a new starting place anywhere in the world. This
hyper-linking was first implemented with text, so it is commonly known as
HyperText.
It is called a markup language because it uses SGML-style tags to provide
content and metadata interwoven in a single text stream.
Letting one class of content be the default can increase efficiency.
W3C is now developing Scalable Vector Graphics where the default will be
vector drawing instructions, not text, and text will be the inserts. In
fact, the format W3C has developed for multimedia, SMIL, basically has
plugin media players as the default kind of content. Web documents can
have these formats as their mother document. So it has indeed grown beyond
Hyper- "Text."
Al
At 09:19 PM 3/3/99 +0000, jonathan chetwynd wrote on w3c-wai-er-ig:
This would seem to be an issue to address in the User Agent guidelines.
In the current draft User Agent guidelines it says the user should be able
to turn off animated or blinking text. But you may need to work with them
to get this clarified so it is clear it applies to the popup [=animated]
display of TITLE and/or ALT attributes as is now common.
Techniques for User Agent Accessibility Guidelines
http://www.w3.org/WAI/UA/WD-WAI-USERAGENT-19990210/wai-useragent-tech#tech-
on-off-blinking-text
Al
