Please excuse if this is a FAQ.
But is there a URI for a (I guess that should be "the") null resource?
Cheers,
Tony
* the bad news
One plausible reading of RFC-2396 would lead one to conclude that:
There is a definition of what it is to be a URI but not what it is to be a
resource.?
I say "one plausible reading" because it is not clear you will find consistent
agreement with this statement. On the other hand, it is not clear you will
find a convincing counter-argument, either.
If the notion of "a resource" is undefined, then the notion of "a null
resource" is undefined, and a_fortiori "the null resource."? Nulls may make
sense in more restricted contexts, but not in the full generality of "anything
that could be indicated by a URI."
* the good news
There are many fictive URIs one can coin using the reserved domain names of
RFC-2606, such as
cid:garbageStringOfYourChoice@mail.example.net and
urn:example.org:topic:aspect:nit .
Authoring these expressions, and presuming that the reader (man or machine) of
these expressions is conversant with DNS and its RFC-2606 provisions, one can
be reasonably assured that the reader will understand that the string
conforming to URI syntax that you have written indicates nothing more than the
utterance (containing this string) itself, without connoting the existence of,
or referring to, further resources beyond the writing at hand.
Hopefully, if you have an application for a "null resource" URI, this
technique
will meet your need.
* discussion
What were you thinking it would mean to be "a null resource"?? The notions of
nullity that I am familiar with bear operational connotations.? Zero is a
number such that when you add it to a number, in the end you haven't changed
that number.? URIs define what it is to be a URI, but not what it is to be a
resource.? So what it would be to be a non-entity through the lens of the
domain of resources is similarly undefined, as best I can figure out.
To say that something is "content free" would require a reproduceable test for
the presence/existence of 'content.'? URIs _per se_ do not provide such a
test.
Beauty, it is said, is in the eye of the beholder.? Likewise, the conditions
for resource-ness are left to other concerns from the context of application,
at least as far as what is defined about URIs in general is concerned.
Al
http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2606.txt http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2606.txt
etc.
Just so we squish these when they come up, that URN is invalid.
URN's are specifically disallowed form having '.' in their namespace ID.
The only allowed characters are A-Z, a-z and '-'. You are strongly
discouraged from using NIDs that even appear to look like domain-names.
IMHO, urn:example:topic:bla would be better....
-MM
Michael Mealling| Vote Libertarian! | urn:pin:1
michael@neonym.net | | http://www.neonym.net
Sorry, point taken. Make that urn:example.invalid:foo:bar:baz . But we
don't want to limit ourselves to broken examples. So building on RFC-2606
is not cool by best URN practice.
Well, what you have there may have been a typo but just in case, that
should be urn:example:invalid:foo:bar:baz . The period character is
completely disallowed between the first and second colons for a URN.
Is there any "writing of normative record" reserving this use you suggested of
'example' as an NID? Or any other effective alternative?
Not that I'm aware of. It might be worth putting into the rfc2611bis document
before its finished...
-MM
Michael Mealling| Vote Libertarian! | urn:pin:1
michael@neonym.net | | http://www.neonym.net
Sorry, point taken. Make that urn:example.invalid:foo:bar:baz . But we
don't
want to limit ourselves to broken examples. So building on RFC-2606 is not
cool by best URN practice.
Is there any "writing of normative record" reserving this use you suggested of
'example' as an NID? Or any other effective alternative?
Al
http://www.neonym.net/ http://www.neonym.net
