Hello everyone,
I will soon be sending out a welcome message and starting up some threads in preparation for our kickoff meeting.
In the meantime, it occurred to me that we could make some improvements to the member page at http://www.w3.org/International/geo/members.html by including the following:
1] a line after each name entitled: "Known as: ..." so people can specify what they'd like to be called. Very useful for Chinese or Southern Indian people, for example.
2] add another line where appropriate to allow people to add their name in their native script, eg. Arabic, Chinese, etc. I can add these easily enough if you send me in an HTML attachment (preferably utf-8 encoding). People will only see these if they have the font, but since most people who would really need to see them would probably have the font, it may be an interesting thing to do.
Thoughts?
RI
Richard Ishida
W3C
The W3C Internationalization Activity has restructured, and has issued a call for participation.
See http://www.w3.org/International/about.html
Great ideas. We should make our pages as international as possible
following/demonstrating our own guidelines.
We should take a tougher stand on the font issue and implement some
solutions, even if it means a backup page with gifs or svg drawings.
Most applications don't have an option to create pages with characters
that sometimes can't be seen.
tex
Tex Texin cell: +1 781 789 1898 mailto:Tex@XenCraft.com
Xen Master http://www.i18nGuy.com
XenCraft http://www.XenCraft.com
Making e-Business Work Around the World
Hello Tex,
Many thanks for your comments.
I think it's important that the guidelines make distinctions on various
axes. One such axis is the implementations one wants to reach. We can
easily say something like "this won't work on generation 3 browsers".
But we should also take into account that the Web moves forward,
and that we (I hope, at least) want it to move forward, rather than
backwards. Using gifs can be very helpful in some cases, e.g.
to help people to check whether their browser does bidirectional
rendering correctly, but for example using gifs instead of Japanese
characters just because somebody might not have installed a Japanese
font is probably not worth spending too much time on.
just my 2 yen.
Regards, Martin.
