I have uploaded the semantics last call candidate to
and modified the overview page
to refer to it there.
Seems to work. Will other editors please upload there docs to the same
place when ready and let me know so I can update the overview page.
Brian
A revised (post_Dan_Connolly) version is now at
Note the final _2
It passes the W3C filters.
This is *not* fully tarted up with internal links to definitions, but
I'll be working on a version which is over the next few days, in
preparation for later.
Summary of changes since last freeze, arising from Dan's comments:
(Jeremy &amp; Graham, note @@)
that model theory might be better called 'interpretation theory'
link to Glossary now reveals a short note there explaining this.
Monotonic logic as a design decision.
Couldnt find a suitable reference (!! bummer indeed) so modified this
text. It is now broken out as a paragraph:
"RDF is an assertional logic, in which each triple expresses a simple
proposition. This imposes a fairly strict monotonic discipline on the
language, so that it cannot express closed-world assumptions, local
default preferences, and several other commonly used non-monotonic
constructs. "
@@I'd like to make it clear that this particular point isnt just
something we didnt get around to, but a positive decision we made.
@@I would like us to have this stated explicitly somewhere, and the
concepts doc is the obvious place. Hint, hint?? This is actually
quite timely, as there is mounting political pressure (mostly from
the RuleML folk) to insert highly nonmonotonic extensions into the
webont mix, and I'd like us to lock down the point that anything
non-mon is not an RDF semantic extension.
RFC2119 language tightened up somewhat, to read as follows.
@@Comments or suggestions for modification welcomed::
Particular uses of RDF, including as a basis for more expressive
languages such as DAML [DAML] and OWL [OWL], may impose further
semantic conditions in addition to those described here, and such
extra semantic conditions can also be imposed on the meanings of
terms in particular RDF vocabularies. Extensions or dialects of RDF
which are obtained by imposing such extra semantic conditions may be
referred to as semantic extensions of RDF. Semantic extensions of RDF
are constrained in this recommendation using the language of [RFC
2119]. Semantic extensions of RDF MUST conform to the semantic
conditions in this document. Any name for entailment in a semantic
extension SHOULD be indicated by the use of a vocabulary entailment
term. The semantic conditions imposed on an RDF semantic extension
MUST define a notion of vocabulary entailment which is valid
according to the model-theoretic semantics described in the normative
parts of this document; except that if the semantic extension is
defined on some syntactically restricted subset of RDF graphs, then
the semantic conditions need only apply to this subset.
Specifications of such syntactically restricted semantic extensions
MUST include a specification of their syntactic conditions which are
sufficient to enable software to distinguish unambiguously those RDF
graphs to which the extended semantic conditions apply. Applications
based on such syntactically restricted semantic extensions MAY treat
RDF graphs which do not conform to the required syntactic
restrictions as errors.
An example of a semantic extension of RDF is RDF Schema, the
semantics of which are defined in later parts of this document. RDF
Schema imposes no extra syntactic restrictions.
All bad uses of 'namespace' are now removed, And by the way the
relevant anchor has been renamed also, from #namespace_entail to
#vocabulary_entail, in case anyone was pointing to 'vocabulary
entailment'.
Ive reworded the limitations section so it doesnt have the
misconception Dan noted and now reads:
The semantics does not assume any particular relationship between the
denotation of a uriref and a document or network resource which can
be obtained by using that uriref in an HTTP transfer protocol, or any
entity which is considered to be the source of such documents. Such a
requirement could be added as a semantic extension, but the formal
semantics described here makes no assumptions about any connection
between the denotations of urirefs and the uses of those urirefs in
other protocols.
The text on datatype interpretations has been cleaned up. Section 3.4
now makes no reference at all to error conditions or information: it
is pure model theory:
A datatype is an entity characterized by a set of character strings
called lexical forms and a mapping from that set to a set of values.
...... D is a set of datatypes, which we will call recognized
datatypes. Urirefs which denote recognized datatypes are required to
have the same denotation in all D-interpretations, so recognizing a
datatype amounts to fixing the meaning of a uriref.
The set of recognized datatypes always includes rdf:XMLLiteral and
may include the XML Schema......
Later it now reads:
Datatype clashes are the only inconsistencies recognized by this
model theory. The definition of entailment means that a
D-inconsistent graph D-entails any RDF graph; however, it will
usually not be appropriate to consider such 'trivial' entailments as
useful consequences, since they are not valid rdf- or rdfs-
entailments.
I have simply deleted the comment about XSD:string not applying to
untyped literals. NOw the document just doesn't even mention any
connection between untyped literals and any datatypes, which is
safer. I think we should come to a decision about this, however, and
say what it is as clearly as possible. Also fixed the bad comment
about range datatypes.
I have put a tiny comment right at the end of section 4:
Datatype clashes and violations may be considered to be error
conditions. However, we note that such graphs are not strictly
ill-formed, and can be used to support valid RDFS entailments which
might be meaningful in certain contexts.
OK, s'all for now.
Pat
IHMC(850)434 8903 home
40 South Alcaniz St.(850)202 4416 office
FL 32501 (850)291 0667 cell
phayes@ai.uwf.edu http://www.coginst.uwf.edu/~phayes
s.pam@ai.uwf.edu for spam
Concerning: http://www.coginst.uwf.edu/~phayes/RDF_Semantics_finalCall_2.html
Datatype clashes are the only inconsistencies recognized by this model
theory. The definition of entailment means that a D-inconsistent graph
D-entails any RDF graph; however, it will usually not be appropriate to
consider such 'trivial' entailments as useful consequences, since they are
not valid rdf- or rdfs- entailments.
I'm puzzled by the use of "inconsistency" here .. my understanding is that
technically, the concept of consistency depends on negation, which is not
recognized in RDF.
[From Metalogic, Geoffrey Hunter:
"A system S is Simply Consistent iff for no formula A of S are both A and
the negation of A theorems of S." He then goes on to define absolute
consistency for systems with the possibility to express negation of any
formula.]
My take on this had been that a D-inconsistent graph is unsatisfiable.
Ah, I see you're using a different definition of inconsistency
(http://www.coginst.uwf.edu/~phayes/RDF_Semantics_finalCall_2.html#glossInconsistent).
So my comment becomes simply: your definition of inconsistency seems to
be, er, "inconsistent" with some other published definitions.
#g
Graham Klyne
This is now loaded into the CVS space the same location as before:
Pat, please you could check that this is in fact the new version. Looks to
me like its right, but there is no obvious version number to check.
Brian
[Resend: some addresses were messed up on the previuous version - #g]
I'm sympathetic, but we're locked down for last-call-candidate review, and
this doesn't seem critical.
I guess we could this as a comment to consider along with other WG LCC
comments?
#g
Graham Klyne
I think it is cirtical that we as a group say this clearly *somewhere*.
Sure.
Pat
IHMC(850)434 8903 home
40 South Alcaniz St.(850)202 4416 office
FL 32501 (850)291 0667 cell
phayes@ai.uwf.edu http://www.coginst.uwf.edu/~phayes
s.pam@ai.uwf.edu for spam
Well, not *inconsistent* with.
My own usage is that 'inconsistent' refers to any unsatisfiable
syntactic condition, not just those involving negation.
Description-logic frameworks can become unsatisfiable in other ways
than having (P and notP ) derivable, since they aren't necessarily
deductively complete.
But perhaps it would have been better to have used 'unsatisfiable'.
I'll take that as a last-call fix before final pub, OK?
Pat
IHMC(850)434 8903 home
40 South Alcaniz St.(850)202 4416 office
FL 32501 (850)291 0667 cell
phayes@ai.uwf.edu http://www.coginst.uwf.edu/~phayes
s.pam@ai.uwf.edu for spam
I'll be happy with whatever your judgement may be on this.
#g
Graham Klyne
OK, I've started a last-call-candidate issues list [1]; this one is [2].
#g
[1] http://www.ninebynine.org/wip/DocIssues/RDFConceptIssues-group-lcc.html
[2]
Graham Klyne
I just noticed that the 'this version' uriref on
actually points to
which is obviously a mistake that ought to get fixed at some point.
Sorry about that.
Pat
IHMC(850)434 8903 or (650)494 3973 home
40 South Alcaniz St.(850)202 4416 office
FL 32501 (850)291 0667 cell
phayes@ai.uwf.edu http://www.coginst.uwf.edu/~phayes
s.pam@ai.uwf.edu for spam
