The Amaya team is proud to announce the availability of the 1.2 release
of Amaya editor/browser.
This release includes minor changes and fixes a set of bugs in Unix
and Windows versions.
The binary is available at:
The source is available at:
This release includes:
Windows improvements
* handling of the stop button
* keyboard shortcuts for editing commands
* saving as a PostScript file
* scrolling and editing
Global improving (Windows and Unix versions)
* table formatting: a new implementation has been done
* extension to support Latin 2 languages in documents
* proxy specification
* further work on the MathML application
* other minor bugs
Ir?ne Vattone-mail: Irene.Vatton@inria.fr Irene.Vatton@w3.org
W3C/INRIA Rh?ne-Alpes
ZIRST - 655 avenue de l'Europe
38330 MONTBONNOT SAINT MARTIN
I installed Amaya on my laptop... I'll see if it can deal with my
infamous HTTP/1.1 issues list table...
Couldn't find any directions on how to specify a proxy, which I need
when using it from inside Digital (like right now). Nothing seemed to
be in the how to configure Amaya help page.... Am I missing something?
- Jim
Bugs (Win95):
1) if you have a file in "My Documents", it seems you can't open the file
(probably the space in the path name).
2) On the table from Hell: (HTTP/1.1 issues list), it takes a VERY long time
to lay out the page. (causes Wi95 to think it isn't responding).
the window, you get into the same kind of problem. It is clear there
is a higher order function depending on table size that I do you in with...
3) line wrapping in entries of the table are not correct.
4) even editing an entry of the table from hell will take forever.
5) redisplay of the table is from bottom to top; not quite a reasonable
order (fun to watch, however).
Oh, well, as the notes said you'd redone the code, it was worth trying again.
Let me know when it might be worth another try.
- Jim
Hello Jim,
The document explaining how to configure Amaya to use proxies is available
at:
In our previous episode, Jim Gettys said:
Oh, I see. The link to the above URL is on the Using Amaya section, rather
than on the Configuring Amaya one. I'll change it later this afternoon so
that it is less confusing to find out.
Thanks for your remarks!
-Jose
