Does anyone know where I can find some figures on the numbers of blind and
visually impaired web users?
Thanks!
Joel Sada
Get Your Private, Free Email at http://www.hotmail.com
Does anyone know where I can find some figures on the numbers of blind and visually impaired web users?
Here's the one I know -- other people may have better numbers.
GVU does regular surveys of internet users.
These may or may not be representative samples, but of those who
completed THIS particular survey, about 4% identify themselves as
users with visual disabilities.
Kynn Bartlett mailto:kynn@hwg.org
President, HTML Writers Guild http://www.hwg.org/
AWARE Center Director http://aware.hwg.org/
aloha, kynn!
perhaps the WAI (the EO WG?) should keep a list of active internet/web use
surveys, so that more people (particularly those with disabilities) can be
encouraged to participate in them -- i know that had i been aware of the
survey, i certainly would have participated, and would have encouraged everyone
i know to do so as well...
oh, and a note to joel: you might want to contact some of the major blindness
organizations, in particular:
American Council of the Blind http://www.acb.org/
American Foundation for the Blind http://www.afb.org/
National Federation of the Blind http://www.nfb.org/
to ask if they have any statistics... the American Foundation for the Blind
maintains the Career Technology Information Bank, a database which (amongst
other things) keeps track of what technology participants use to conduct their
work, and a major concern of recent pollings of the data pool is the use of web
based technology by blind and visually impaired persons, both at work and at
home... you can email the maintainer of the Career Technology Information
Bank, Jay Leventhal, using the following eddress:
you can also find out more about the Career Technology Information Bank at:
as well as some (unfortunately old) statistics (which don't include any
information about internet use) at:
gregory.
He that lives on Hope, dies farting
-- Benjamin Franklin, Poor Richard's Almanack, 1763
Gregory J. Rosmaita unagi69@concentric.net
President, WebMaster, &amp; Minister of Propaganda,
VICUG NYC http://www.hicom.net/~oedipus/vicug/
Forgive my ignorance, and this isn't to ignore the irony of your question.
But what point can your question make?
I think it's obvious that just about anyone can access the Internet, within
a certain definition of "anyone". I can access it for free at my local
library. Of course, "access" is also a scale, and not an absolute today.
But, nonetheless:
My friend who has severe CP accesses it all the time, and despite his lack
of motor control has yet to not defeat the lastest gluns-a-blazin' game for
Windows.
My friend who is a C4 paraplegic uses the Internet and Microsoft Office all
the time. She just became an attorney, thanks in part to the voluminous law
texts available on CD-ROM.
And I recently made the acquantance of someone who is blind and takes
courses online.
I think a much more realistic question is how many *do* access the Internet,
for several reasons:
1. Like everything else, the growth of the Internet is informed by our
economy. We're lucky the Internet came along in a time of great growth.
Knowing how many blind and visually people access the Internet translates
into users which translates into money via advertising from traffic and
however else net-entrepeneurs cook up their money. After all, this
discussion list is about getting more people on the Internet - increasing
traffic. Which bring me to my second point.
2. Such a figure shows writing accessible code for Macintosh and Netscape
browsers is probably less important than writing code that can be accessed
by the blind and visually impaired. If we assume the available numbers are
correct, there are more blind and visually impaired web users than Mac users
on the Internet. If, as a web developer, my goal is to design web pages that
will work for the largest number of people with the least amount of
production time, I'm going to focus on the WAI suggestions and drop Mac and
Netscape support in favor of IE4/5 and the recommendations of the WAI. By
focusing only on IE4/5, I'll grab 75% of the browser share and be coding for
a browser that several screen readers work well with.
3. Finally, creating an arbitrary group of "blind and visually people that
cannot use the Internet" may obscure other determinants of Internet usage:
gender (though as I understand it, this gap is closing rapidly), age,
occupation, socio-economic status, and country. My hunch is that of the
population of blind/visually non-Internet users, we can explain the patterns
of non-use much more meaningfully using the above variables and not their
eyesight.
Joel
Get Your Private, Free Email at http://www.hotmail.com
