If people are looking for a quick pat on the back they are barking up the
wrong tree. As Will Loughborough (Love) says, Accessibility is a right,
not a privelige.
Out of curiousity, what exactly makes it a right?
I hope this won't start a flamewar.
I'm just wondering what makes accessibility a right, if Internet
access itself is _not_ a right for the general public, at least,
not that I've been told. Where do rights come from, and who
makes the decision, "this is a right"?
Again, no flames please, and bear in mind that we're on the same
side -- I just want to hear the logic behind this statement.
Kynn Bartlett kynn@idyllmtn.com http://www.idyllmtn.com/~kynn/
Chief Technologist &amp; Co-Owner, Idyll Mountain Internet; Fullerton, California
For your user-defined stylesheet: .GeoBranding { display: none ! important; }
Enroll now, for my HTML 4.0 Accessibility Class: http://www.hwg.org/classes/
The Americans with Disabilities Act and its regulatory apparatus makes
accessibility a right for persons with disabilities under certain
circumstances. In this case, the "amount" of accessibility that a given
site has to provide partly depends on whether the site is government or
privately sponsored. Also, a set of definitions for web accessibility and
other things similar was recently issued as part of the development of the
ADA.
In general, government sites have to meet a higher standard of access than
private sites; I am no expert, but the overall standard for private sites
would be accessibility that is readily achievable.
Given the nature of markup languages, it makes some sense that the standard
of "readily achieveable" will be pretty high for web sites. However, none
of this has been tested yet.
Time will tell-but my guess is that the expectations from a legal
perspective will be fairly high for sites.
Chief Technologist &amp; Co-Owner, Idyll Mountain Internet; Fullerton,
California
For your user-defined stylesheet: .GeoBranding { display: none !
important; }
Enroll now, for my HTML 4.0 Accessibility Class:
Kynn: "Where do rights come from, and who makes the decision, "this is a
right"?"
WL:: The "slogan" is without any "a" but includes it by implication so
that the idea of accessibility being "the right thing" as well as being
"a right" is included.
The idea of "rights", at least in the U.S. is drilled into most of us
humans about when we are infected with the insidious virus called
"language" and in general these are taken, guarded, and maintained
through the force of arms, i.e. we wage revolutions to secure them and
have armed forces of various kinds to assure their application - which
seems weird since one of them is to be free of such means! Anyway,
there are rights given by Nature (Gaia, God, etc.) that account for our
continuing through life: oxygen, water, sunlight and its products, etc.
There are rights by language as in "Bill of Rights", Civil Rights,
Common Law Rights, and customs. Some come from adjudication and others
from power ("possession is nine points..."). The main one we deal with
in our context, the right to an accessible World Wide Web is less
tenuous than a web but, in certain places, "guaranteed" by such
legislative language as found in Title II of the ADA and parts of the
Telecommunications Act. The "guarantee" is about like the one given at
weddings since a lot more "parting" happens before it is done by death
than it is done by decree. The "right to access" is a lot more
"intuitive" than the idea that a circle with a slash across it means
"no" to whatever the symbol contained in the circle means (which is also
a bit less than "intuitive" in the case of arrows, etc.). I mean by
that that since we are all in this together, all members of one another,
and almost by definition cannot allow sociopathy to prevail, it's clear
that "everything, everyone connected" means what Tim Berners-Lee et al
say it means. If you speak Spanish at the poker table during a hand in
most public games you are asked to stop; if you publish inaccessible
materials on the Web you will be ultimately stopped - our task is to
clarify "inaccessible" so that the offenders will know they are
"speaking Spanish".
I am entitled to ramble on this since my signature started it and my
creeping senility entitles me to the forbearance of my younger
colleagues.
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
*Unless there's been some recent case law*, the pertinent ADA sections
address public accomodation and providing accessible access for information
and services *not available in another format*. That is, if I run a music
school and provide an online application, AND provide that application on
paper, or someone will read it to me over the phone or in person, etc, my
application process is accessible. ADA does not state that my *web site*
method of delivery must past an accessibility test, because I continue to
offer *alternative forms* of delivery of that information/service which
provide the same quality and end result. Yes, it would be a good thing for
me to do, but I've met the accessiblity requirement by providing
alternative delivery. Anytown, USA would run into trouble if they only
provided dog licensing on the web, and weren't accessible, because they
haven't made provisions for alternative delivery.
A private home page, such as Kynn's personal page (I pick on Kynn because I
know him, and I don't have a personal site that's comparable), isn't a
public accomodation. That he makes his site accessible is a good idea, but
the idea that he might be sued for not doing so, or is violating someone's
"rights" by not doing so, strikes me as a bit silly (and again, this isn't
flame bait, I'm a firm accessibility supporter, and wrote on the topic in
the book mentioned in my sig).
Ann
Author of Effective Web Design: Master the Essentials
Buy it online! http://www.webgeek.com/about.html
Owner, WebGeek Communications http://www.webgeek.com%a0
Vice President-Finance, HTML Writers Guild http://www.hwg.org
Good point. I agree that accessibility is _right_, I just am
curious about the support for accessibility as "a right".
None of which I disagree with in the context of the U.S., except
to note that the ADA doesn't apply to everyone on this list, since
they're not Americans. :)
Kynn Bartlett kynn@idyllmtn.com http://www.idyllmtn.com/~kynn/
Chief Technologist &amp; Co-Owner, Idyll Mountain Internet; Fullerton, California
For your user-defined stylesheet: .GeoBranding { display: none ! important; }
Enroll now, for my HTML 4.0 Accessibility Class: http://www.hwg.org/classes/
...if I may...?
can I get a response at two in the morning? equal access is the tagline
here. universal access if you will. I too see what you are getting at,
but all to often, it's used as a cop out. well, if you can't use pdf
then...
AN The Americans with Disabilities Act and its regulatory apparatus makes
AN accessibility a right for persons with disabilities under certain
AN circumstances. In this case, the "amount" of accessibility that a given
AN site has to provide partly depends on whether the site is government or
AN privately sponsored. Also, a set of definitions for web accessibility and
AN other things similar was recently issued as part of the development of the
AN ADA.
AN
AN
AN*Unless there's been some recent case law*, the pertinent ADA sections
ANaddress public accomodation and providing accessible access for information
ANand services *not available in another format*. That is, if I run a music
ANschool and provide an online application, AND provide that application on
ANpaper, or someone will read it to me over the phone or in person, etc, my
ANapplication process is accessible. ADA does not state that my *web site*
ANmethod of delivery must past an accessibility test, because I continue to
ANoffer *alternative forms* of delivery of that information/service which
ANprovide the same quality and end result. Yes, it would be a good thing for
ANme to do, but I've met the accessiblity requirement by providing
ANalternative delivery. Anytown, USA would run into trouble if they only
ANprovided dog licensing on the web, and weren't accessible, because they
ANhaven't made provisions for alternative delivery.
AN
ANA private home page, such as Kynn's personal page (I pick on Kynn because I
ANknow him, and I don't have a personal site that's comparable), isn't a
ANpublic accomodation. That he makes his site accessible is a good idea, but
ANthe idea that he might be sued for not doing so, or is violating someone's
AN"rights" by not doing so, strikes me as a bit silly (and again, this isn't
ANflame bait, I'm a firm accessibility supporter, and wrote on the topic in
ANthe book mentioned in my sig).
AN
ANAnn
AN---
AN
ANAuthor of Effective Web Design: Master the Essentials
ANBuy it online! http://www.webgeek.com/about.html
AN
ANOwner, WebGeek Communications http://www.webgeek.com%a0
ANVice President-Finance, HTML Writers Guild http://www.hwg.org
AN
AN
AN
Hands-On-Technolog(eye)s
touching the internet
voice: 1-(301) 949-7599
poehlman@clark.net
ftp://ftp.clark.net/pub/poehlman
Dynamic solutions Inc.
Best of service for your Small Business network Needs
I understand that, which is why I say that of course providing an
accessible site is a *good thing*. However the assertion that is at times
made that accessibility is "a right" (not just "right") can bring
significant resistance to an idea that may otherwise be accepted with
interest.
While everyone here would be thrilled to see all web sites be accessible,
there is a "real" difference between those that are legally required to be
in certain jurisdictions, and those where accessibility is desirable. Not
putting forth everything as "required", IMO, will bring greater acceptance.
Ann
Author of Effective Web Design: Master the Essentials
Buy it online! http://www.webgeek.com/about.html
Owner, WebGeek Communications http://www.webgeek.com%a0
Vice President-Finance, HTML Writers Guild http://www.hwg.org
FYI
RE:PDF files
You can convert .pdf files to html on line at adobe.com using their
accessibility tools at the site. The options are to download the converter
for pc's or enter the url and have the converter put the converted page up
on your browser.
Kathy
David Poehlman
Kathleen Fagan-Raeihle
Accessible Website Design
aka webmaster@ilusa.com
most of us cannot convert many of thejm adaquately.
KFRFYI
KFR
KFRRE:PDF files
KFR
KFRYou can convert .pdf files to html on line at adobe.com using their
KFRaccessibility tools at the site. The options are to download the converter
KFRfor pc's or enter the url and have the converter put the converted page up
KFRon your browser.
KFR
KFRKathy
KFR
KFR
KFR
KFRDavid Poehlman
KFR ...if I may...?
KFR can I get a response at two in the morning? equal access is the tagline
KFR here. universal access if you will. I too see what you are getting at,
KFR but all to often, it's used as a cop out. well, if you can't use pdf
KFR then...
KFR
KFRKathleen Fagan-Raeihle
KFRAccessible Website Design
KFR
KFRaka webmaster@ilusa.com
KFRhttp://www.ilusa.com/accessweb.htm
KFR
Hands-On-Technolog(eye)s
touching the internet
voice: 1-(301) 949-7599
poehlman@clark.net
ftp://ftp.clark.net/pub/poehlman
Dynamic solutions Inc.
Best of service for your Small Business network Needs
also re pdf, two huge exceptions come to mind. if the form is in pdf, it
is required to be printed filled in and mailed. if the pdf contains
handwriting well, we can't read that.
Hands-On-Technolog(eye)s
touching the internet
voice: 1-(301) 949-7599
poehlman@clark.net
ftp://ftp.clark.net/pub/poehlman
Dynamic solutions Inc.
Best of service for your Small Business network Needs
This thread has a number of errors in the discussion concerning the nature
of the civil right protected under the Americans with Disabilities Act of
1990. Having returned from vacation, I would like to clarify the legal
requirements, if I may.
First, the ADA is not a protected right limited to Americans only. Although
it is a US law and has within the title "Americans," the ADA (Interpretive
Guidance Section 1630.1(a)) protects all qualified individuals with
disabilities, regardless of their citizenship status or nationality.
Enforcement is applied equally to all American businesses and entities
whether or not they are operating in the US or abroad.
Second, the legal standard as it applies to the internet per the USDOJ
policy ruling is "effective communication" and not "readily achievable."
Effective communication is a higher burden equally applicable to both
business and government. The ADA standard for communications is very
different from the removal of physical barriers. Effective communication
under the ADA is provided through "auxiliary aids and services." An
individual's request for accessible web design must be honored unless the
entity can demonstrate another equally or more effective means of
communication or that the request would cause a fundamental alteration or
undue burden.
This response is to provide legal information only and not advice. A brief
summary of my law lecture at Santa Clara University School of Law
Telecommunications and Technology Law class can be found at
Sometimes it is forgotten that the purpose of the ADA is to prevent
discrimination against people with disabilities in their access to goods,
programs, services, activities or facilities. Ignorance of barriers to
effective communication is no defense to the violation of this civil right.
At one time people using wheelchairs were not entering buildings, not
because they did not want to be there, but because there was not an
accessible entrance or path of travel within the building. Effective
communication requires accessible web site design that includes an
accessible entrance and navigation capability. Without this civil right,
the marketplace would determine consumer needs and the voice of people with
disabilities would not be heard.
The efforts of the WAI and other entities to enable the industry to address
the removal of barriers to effective communication is certainly welcome by
all of us in the disability community.
Cynthia D. Waddell
Cynthia D. Waddell Cynthia.Waddell@ci.sj.ca.us
ADA Coordinator City of San Jose, CA
801 North First Street, Room 460
San Jose, California 95110-1704
(408)277-4034
(408)971-0134 TTY
