Layer has a certain functionality not available with
HTML / CSS which is to call an external bit of HTML
and make it a part of the same document.
How does this differ from the illustration given at the end of section
13.5 of the HTML 4.0 specification ("embed_me.html"), in which OBJECT is
used to insert a fragment of HTML, from a separate file, into another HTML
document?
Layer has a certain functionality not available with
HTML / CSS which is to call an external bit of HTML
and make it a part of the same document. Communicator
supports some CSS extention (url-import) that does the same.
Actually netscapes guide on layers shows how to do the
same with CSS and admits that url-import is an experimental
extention.
EMBED should be deprecated in favor of OBJECT, but EMBED
is currently much more widely supported than OBJECT.
So it seems the guidelines would benefit from not disscussing those.
On the other hand I would talk much more on CSS and
IFRAME in the section on frames, as these may replace a
great deal of the functions of the notorious FRAMESET FRAME
alternative.
Nir Dagan, Ph.D.
"There is nothing quite so practical as a good theory."
-- A. Einstein
This is supported in standard HTML by OBJECT.
I found, to my pleasant surprise, that it actually worked in MSIE
(I was using 5b2) when I inserted an HTML document encoded in one
charset (koi8-r, say) into an HTML document encoded in a different
charset (iso-8859-1, say).
One aspect that I find to be a shortcoming is that one must define
a height and width for the OBJECT, otherwise MSIE does not display it
(or displays it at zero size, maybe - well, the perceived effect is
the same).
Having said that it works, I have to admit that I have no especial
insights into the accessibility implications of using it.
best regards
Layer seems a simple one to dispose of, since it is not widely supported,
and does not have any functionality that could not be provided with
properly implemented IFRAME or OBJECT elements (ones which allow for
control of borders etc).
EMBED is trickier. What other way is there to include a multimedia object
such as a video in a page (rather than linking to it as a document)?
OBJECT and IFRAME could, again, be used, but they are not implemented
where EMBED is.
We should probably think about the accessibility issues related to
IFRAME anyway - are they the same as those for FRAME?
Charles McCathieNevile
I just think there should be explicit statements that LAYER and EMBED
elements should not be used in designing WWW pages.
Jon
Jon Gunderson, Ph.D., ATP
Coordinator of Assistive Communication and Information Technology
Division of Rehabilitation - Education Services
University of Illinois at Urbana/Champaign
1207 S. Oak Street
Champaign, IL 61820
Voice: 217-244-5870
E-mail: jongund@uiuc.edu
WWW:http://www.staff.uiuc.edu/~jongund
LAYER I agree with you. For EMBED, the problem is that there is no
replacement prior to HTML 4.0 (I may be wrong on this. Anyone?) I would
recommend that EMBED only be used within the content of an OBJECT (much
as I recommend IMG be used, although nobody seems to buy this. It may be
more of an option for AU though.) since it provides a mechanism which is
widely supported, although non-standard. This goes back to the 'where
possible' provisions. It is not possible to provide legacy browsers with
an EMBED which is W3C recommended. This does not mean that it is not
possible to provide the functionality in an accessible way, which is the
ultimate goal. Just that the non-W3C technology should not be used as the
primary means - it is a kluge, and where it can be replaced (eg by using
it as content of an OBJECT, then using CSS display:none if possible (I am
thinking out loud here and don't know if that works)) an appropriate
system must be recommended by the guidelines.
This is one of those tricky problems that goes to the heart of the
matter. Arewe ready to discuss this on the call, or is there other
agenda material?
Charles McCathieNevile
to follow up on what Charles McCathie Nevile said:
You can compose a SMIL presentation with the web page on layer 1
and the video on layer 2, where it hides a static GIF placeholder
for those lacking the video player. I think you can, anyway.
Al
I was thinking here of legacy solutions. It's EMBED or nothing. I think.
Charles
