Hi there,
I've been asked some questions about the accessibility of the material
produced by, and the interface of WebCT version 2 which was released in
October:
They have statements on their web site such as
"The Bulletin Board now can display messages in a no frames view.
This makes the bulletin board easier for a screen-reader to use. In
this view, the screen displays either hyperlinked threads or
individual messages."
and
"Accessibility.
Most built-in images now have ALT tags and many incorporate
"mouseovers," showing text (ALT) information at the bottom of the
browser. A no-frames version of Bulletin Board and Mail has been
added. The online Help contains an informative section on
Accessibility."
I'm keen to find out if anyone has actually used it or had a look at it, and
whether the improvements they mention have actually made an impact on the
usability of the material produced for disabled people.
Cheers.
Paul Booth, Project Officer, DISinHE Office.
The national centre for Disability and Information Systems in Higher
Education,
Department of Applied Computing, University of Dundee, Scotland
w: http://www.disinhe.ac.uk/ t: 01382 345050 f: 01382 345509
Hi Paul.
I just ran the front page through BOBBY and it does not meet Priority 1
guidelines, to wit:
1.Provide alternative text for all image map hot-spots. (1 instance)
Line 38:
2.Provide alternative text for all images. (21 instances)
I would say they need to do a bit more work to make the material truly
accessible! Since I never saw the site before today I can not say whether
the "changes" are an improvement in accessibility.
Regards...
Paul DiPasquale
SNIP
Hi All:
A little info on the WebCT Version 2 accessibility front - The ATRC at
UofToronto has been using WebCT for some time, and have had ongoing
dialogue with WebCT. We have expressed our concerns and encouraged
improvements to the interface, as it is a very popular product in
Canada, and increasingly in the US. Version 2 reflects some
improvement, but there is much work still to be done. To this end, WebCT
is targeting Version 3, which is to be released in June 2000 for
additional changes to resolve access issues. In the meantime, educators
should use WebCT Version 2 with caution regarding access.
Earlier incarnations of WebCT provided no opportunity to include ALT
text in pages generated by the courseware, and the bulletin board/mail
systems were a complex three frame structure that was fairly awkward for
anyone to use, even more difficult for a screen reader. Many of the
other student tools have also had a framed presentation and the chat is
java-based.
The new Version 2 allows the designer of the course to add ALT text to
images generated by the courseware. The new site map feature will help
users with navigation. Also the new mail/communication tools provide
pop-up windows as an alternative to frames. We have advised WebCT about
problems with change of focus, as doing so without advising the user
generates a whole new set of problems. Strategies to improve the access
to student tools / navigation are in the works - hopefully we'll see
more in Version 3 in June.
With regard to the Help files, WebCT consulted with the ATRC (note our
name appears at the bottom of the Help file section on accessible
design.) A brief explanation of adaptive technology is followed by a
list of simple techniques, based on WAI guidelines as they may be
applied in this context. We have been advised that the help files
cannot be updated until the next version is released, however, if anyone
has feedback on them for the next iteration, we would appreciate it.
They are online at:
We recognize that there is still a long way to go before WebCT is
completely accessible, as is the case with all of the major courseware
packages of this type currently on the market. However, we are pleased
that WebCT acknowledges the accessibility issues, and is actively
pursuing development of a more accessible interface.
Laurie Harrison
Laurie Harrison
Resource Coordinator
Centre for Academic and Adaptive Technology, Information Commons
University of Toronto
laurie.harrison@utoronto.ca
(416) 946-3778
