aloha!
today, i attempted to file a report on an actual site, using the Web
Accessibility Report Form located at:
i have interspersed my comments into a text-image of the "Step 4 (Final step):
Confirm Your Report" page -- my comments are enclosed in brackets and preceded
by "GJR's comments:" -- there are 3 of them, and the text-image is followed by
a fourth comment...
-- begin text-image of report output (step 4)
Web Accessibility Report Tool
Step 4 (Final step): Confirm Your Report
From: wai-report@w3.org
[GJR's comment: didn't input eddresses which i defined in step 3--is this
because the form is not yet "live"]
Subject: WAI Report on http://music.acu.edu/www/iawm/pages/
Hello,
This message comes to you from the World Wide Web Consortium's Web
Accessibility Initiative (W3C WAI) report tool at
URL: http://music.acu.edu/www/iawm/pages/
Date: Tue Oct 19 17:34:34 1999
Your Web site has been found to have to one or more accessibility problems.
This is not an automatic evaluation. This message is the result of an
individual's review of your page or site (refer to the cc: field). This person
experienced difficulty accessing your page either due to a disability (visual,
auditory, physical, or cognitive) or due to device limitations (poor connection
bandwidth, no support for graphics or support turned off, a voice interface
such as a webphone, etc.). Please consider their comments below.
with: and Lynx32 (2.8.2rel.1 and Opera 3.6
[GJR's comment: didn't acknowledge the MSIE 5.0 choice that i made from the
OPTION list--how can i report that more than one browser was used to analyze
the page?]
The reviewer found the following accessibility problems with your page or site.
Each item is followed by a link to relevant information in the Web Content
Accessibility Guidelines 1.0.
Missing or inappropriate alternative text for an Image or Animation (Refer to
Checkpoint 1.1)
Missing structural elements (H1-H6, UL, OL, etc.) (Refer to Checkpoint 3.5)
Invalid HTML (Refer to Checkpoint 11.1)
Missing long description for graphics (Refer to Checkpoint 1.1)
Color contrast insufficient (Refer to Checkpoint 2.2)
Other: A well designed site that uses alternative text particularly well -- the
only negative comment that i have is that the use of graphics to display text
may not allow low vision users to use the page easily, but that could be
remedied by the low vision user turning image loading off. i'd also recommend
that the use of physical markup (i.e. FONT="2") be replaced with stylesheets.
the graphical hyperlink that leads to the photo credit on the front page needs
ALT text, too. please feel free to contact me if you want/need more information
about stylesheets and or accessibility, or visit the W3C's Web Content
Accessibility Guidelines, located at http://www.w3.org/TR/WAI-WEBCONTENT/ and
the WAI homepage at: http://www.w3.org/WAI/ -- you might also consider
validating your HTML using the W3C's HTML Validation Service, which is located
at: http://validator.w3.org/
[GJR's comment: i used the "Other" field on the list of checkboxes to add my
comments, as there currently is no TEXTAREA field in step 3 in which to
add "Additional subjective comments from the reviewer"--only (stifling)
list boxes]
Additional subjective comments from the reporter:
Mostly Accessible with no visual
-- end of text-image of report output (step 4)
one last comment/suggestion: the "Web Accessibility Report Result" page should
have a link to the hypertext archive of reports... by the way, the URI of this
report is:
gregory
ACCOUNTABILITY, n. The mother of caution.
-- Ambrose Bierce, _The Devil's Dictionary_
Gregory J. Rosmaita unagi69@concentric.net
Camera Obscura http://www.hicom.net/~oedipus/index.html
VICUG NYC http://www.hicom.net/~oedipus/vicug/
Read 'Em &amp; Speak http://www.hicom.net/~oedipus/books/
It's live.
The only reason I can see is that the webmaster email you entered was
not valid (meaning not in the syntactic form user@domain.tld).
You can check the perl source at /WAI/report/rep[234].cgi and
utils.pm.
You need to enter all the browser names in the Other textfield.
(no need to select anything then, since Other overrides the selection
from menu)
That's OK.
The script that generates the final "thanks" page has no way of
knowning the exact url of the report - which BTW might not have
arrived yet - so pointing to the archive is not really useful (might
be harmful if the reporter thinks she needs to do it again).
aloha, daniel!
thanks for the quick reply to my comments on the form...
didn't input eddresses which i defined in step 3--is this because the form is
not yet "live"
unquote
to which DD replied:
It's live.
The only reason I can see is that the webmaster email you entered was
not valid (meaning not in the syntactic form user@domain.tld).
unquote
i used the standard delimiter -- a comma -- between the suggested syntactic
form (i.e. a variation on webmaster@domain.com, based on the URI i entered in
Step 1) and the email address of the person who maintains the page (someone who
had contacted me personally and asked me to update a link to her site)
i don't believe i put any white space between webmaster@domain.com -- is white
Step 2? these are things that should either be mentioned on the Step 2 page,
or tips that could be collected into a help page for the report form (yeah, i
know -- help pages for forms are a pain in the ass, but...)
GJR commented:that the form
didn't acknowledge the MSIE 5.0 choice that i made from the OPTION list--how
can i report that more than one browser was used to analyze the page?
unquote
to which DD replied:
You need to enter all the browser names in the Other textfield.(no need to
select anything then, since Other overrides the selection from menu)
unquote
ok, but this, too needs to be documented, so that the reporter knows the proper
procedure to follow...
and your point on pointing back to the archive
quote
The script that generates the final "thanks" page has no way of knowing the
exact url of the report - which BTW might not have arrived yet - so pointing to
the archive is not really useful (might be harmful if the reporter thinks she
needs to do it again).
unquote
is a valid one...
gregory.
He that lives on Hope, dies farting
-- Benjamin Franklin, Poor Richard's Almanack, 1763
Gregory J. Rosmaita unagi69@concentric.net
WebMaster and Minister of Propaganda, VICUG NYC
As you might guess by looking at the perl source, the email validator
is extremely trivial. I think it should be enhanced to support list,
space, etc.
If you suggest a way to add help with cluttering the visual too much,
I'll implement it.
aloha, daniel!
thank you for opening the can of worms which i've been thinking of exploring
quote
If you suggest a way to add help with cluttering the visual too much,
I'll implement it.
unquote
i'll take a whack at this ASAP -- actually, i'd already begun the process by
downloading the doc source for the report form, but i may not get back to
working on it for a while due to a very small aspect of my life called "my
life"...
gregory
PS: i did take a quick listen to the perl source, and answered my own question
as to delimiters... are you or your student hacking the perl, or are you
looking for volunteers (i.e. someone other than you or me!)?
He that lives on Hope, dies farting
-- Benjamin Franklin, Poor Richard's Almanack, 1763
Gregory J. Rosmaita unagi69@concentric.net
WebMaster and Minister of Propaganda, VICUG NYC
just play with HTML, don't bother with the perl script, I'll translate
it to perl-generated-HTML later.
the perl source (of poor quality) was created by a student (gone now)
and I'm now maintaining it.
