Recently I have found time to read some sections of the HTML 4.0 draft,
now that it is publicly available. I have noticed that the suggestion for
an ACRONYM element has been included, and that abbreviations are to be
handled by client-side dictionaries. It is suggested that link elements in
the document's head could provide references to dictionaries for
specialised vocabularies. However, in the discussion of link types, no
type value is given for abbreviation dictionaries. One solution might be:
where "dictionary.html" is an HTML document in which each abbreviation and
its expansion is given in a definition list.
I think this is a reasonnable request and I'm forwarding it to the
HTML working group (who still has open issues from us on the media
type extension and the cascading style/alternate rule).
I'll take the opportunity of this message to say that this HTML 4.0
public release is not a W3C "recommendation" yet (not even "proposed
recommendation"), it is just the announce of the availibility of the
public draft, and more importantly, of the version number (so that
companies can start claiming conformance with 4.0...)
This means we're still on hook for giving input to the HTML WG.
Just to clarify this proposal, I would emphasize the importance of not
only specifying what the link type should be, but also prescribing the
format of the dictionary file itself. Unnecessary compatibility problems
would arise if different software developers were allowed to decide upon
their own dictionary file formats. Hence, a single standard for the
dictionary file should be provided right from the outset.
As already indicated, my initial suggestion (and this is of course open to
debate if necessary) is that the dictionary file be an HTML document, in
the body of which there is a definition list with one entry for each
abbreviation.
Note that if we use a LINK as in
There is always the possibility, as when used with Style sheet, to
indicate the type:
I think this is as far as we can go in this context, and trying to
define a file format for abbreviation dictionary should be a separate
effort.
to follow up on what Daniel Dardailler said:
On the one hand, I have to agree with Daniel that the issue of
formats for a public dictionary interface should be worked out
for dictionaries in general, and not be done in a peculiar
fashion for the disability community.
On the other hand, the universal design approach suggests that we
recognize Braille users as a language minority, and because
language minorities have an interest in circulating dictionaries
separate from applications, that we recognize that our client
community has an interest in the success of a public dictionary
interface that is fully integrated with the application of HTML
and styles.
-- Al Gilman
I agree that the HTML specification is not a suitable location for
describing the preferred dictionary file format and that the issue should
be treated separately. Would it be best to develop an "abbreviation
dictionary" specification specifically for this purpose, as a separate
document, which could perhaps be included on one of the W3C pages that
deals with markup?
I would still maintain the importance of defining the dictionary file
format, and of doing so before the concept of an abbreviation dictionary
is widely implemented so that there is little opportunity for divergent
standards and incompatibilities to arise.
Abbreviation dictionaries are likely to be relatively small, and require
only two fields per entry: one for the abbreviation and the other for its
expansion. Thus, the file format would be relatively simple, and I would
suggest using an HTML document for several reasons. Firstly, it can easily
be created using any HTML authoring tool or text editor. Secondly, the
markup for language identification and the full ISO 10646 character set
would be available, as is necessary in a truly international context.
Thirdly, HTML provides a simple mechanism, namely the definition list,
whereby abbreviations and their expanded forms can be listed.
It could. I don't know exactly how W3C expect to deal with the
proliferation of new XML DTD or DTD-like proposals in the future.
It is important, but it's hard to prioritize it against others, like,
say, micropayment information format, or chemical molecule
representation.
True, but one could argue that it is a perfect application for XML,
where you could define a more semantically richer set of tags, using a
small DTD with things like ABBREV and EXPAN .
Anyway, I'll bring it up in the HTML forum.
Since XML syntax is reasonably stable, this solution would indeed be
suitable even in the short term, provided that W3C is planning to create,
or at least register, a certain number of official DTD's for use in
specialised applications.
I was able to meet up with Daniel Dardailler last week in Sophia
Antipolis. We discussed this idea. Its not clear to me what format
is appropriate. The simplest format would be to place each
definition on a separate line, e.g.
DrDoctor
MrMister
okokay
A more sophistocated approach would allow one to specify the
pronunciation of the expanded form using a textual encoding
of phonemic/prosodic information. This would be contingent on
our choosing such an encoding, which is something we want to
do for HTML in any case.
Maybe for now its best to just reserve a term for linking
abbreviation dictionaries.
Regards,
-- Dave Raggett dsr@w3.org http://www.w3.org/People/Raggett
World Wide Web Consortium (on assignment from HP Labs)
I agree that defining a link type for the abbreviation dictionary is an
important first step. Also, I have wondered to what extent the
abbreviation dictionary and the phonetic markup work can be combined. For
example, an external dictionary file might be an appropriate means of
implementing phonetic markup. However, abbreviation dictionaries perhaps
should not be connected exclusively with the phonetic work, since they may
be useful to braille translators as well (for example, I understand that
the French braille system distinguishes between a full stop (point) and a
"point abbreviatif", which is used in abbreviations).
I would suggest using either an XML DTD or an HTML document, as discussed
earlier in this thread. The abbreviation dictionary certainly needs the
equivalent of the HTML 4.0 LANG attribute, and should allow a full
multinational character set to be used. I agree that it would be helpful
in some instances for phonetic markup to be included as well.
to follow up on what Dave Raggett said:
It is better to reserve a keyword or expression (pattern of
keywords) for linking [all kinds of] dictionaries and let the
dictionary itself declare its domain of applicability to be
expanding abbreviations.
All dictionaries are collections of entries. Each entry binds
one short text to one or more longer texts. The application of
these relationships [dictionary entries] should be up to the
dictionary and the application that applies them against the
document. Not special codes in the document itself.
At one use of a word one might want to encode the equivalent of
for definition use Webster_document select sense #3 .
But references to dictionaries in the document should simply add
the dictionary to the context without specializing the notion of
"dictionary".
Al Gilman
Exactly.
Regards,
-- Dave Raggett dsr@w3.org http://www.w3.org/People/Raggett
World Wide Web Consortium (on assignment from HP Labs)
