The best time for catching up seems to be Thu Mar 4, freenode.net, on
the #foaf channel.
Let's split the chat up into two parts: Image vocab related (starting
at 15:00) and Event Vocab related (starting at 16:00). That gives us
the following agenda:
15:00 - 15:40 GMT: Image Vocab Update
15:40 - 16:00 GMT: W3photo.org website update
16:00 - 16:40 GMT: Event Vocab Update
16:40 - 17:00 GMT: Misc., Wrap-up, etc.
Please try to make it to the relevant discussion. More notes and
pointers coming during the next few days.
Thanks!
Greg
This is the TEMPORARY discussion list for the W3 Semantic-Photo History
Project. For questions, contact greg@fotonotes.net.
Subscribe Instructions
Body: subscribe
Unsubscribe Instructions
Body: unsubscribe
Help
Body: help
Hi all,
I'll be offline til saturday, so I unfortunately can't join the chat
on Thursday. I worked a little on the imreg vocab/doc today:
- namespace uri update: http://www.w3.org/2004/03/image-regions# ;-)
- "repaired" the OWL DL description of image:width and image:height
(domain is now owl:Thing, range is rdfs:Literal). I didn't replace
them with exif terms, though.
- added imreg:width and imreg:height (see morten's comments at [1])
- fixed my weird coords documentation.
code examples are still missing, I didn't find the time yet to extend
my spec'n'doc generator, maybe next weekend then..
and here are some (random) thoughts concerning potential
annotation workflow extensions ("nice to have"s) we discussed last
week:
1) sign up
- add email or add url of foaf personal profile document
2) upload images
- flag "others may annotate this image, too" ?
3) browse images, pick one for annotating
4) annotate
- pick annotation dialog/form (4.1-4.4)
4.1) general information
- set image title
- set image description
- creator of image ?
4.2) identify people
4.2.1) draw shape
4.2.2a) pick name from personal foaf:knows (if PPD was set at 1))
or
4.2.2b) enter identifying props (mbox, weblog, name,..)
or
4.2.2c) search name, autofill form
4.3 type Person? (e.g. "Attendee", "Presenter") ..heavy stuff..
4.3) event
- type event (e.g. "KeynoteTalk")
4.4) add untyped regions and annotations
4.4.1 draw shape
4.4.2 write comment (e.g. 'xx was so proud of his *huge*
8" laptop screen' etc)
benjamin
Benjamin Nowack
Kruppstr. 82-100
45145 Essen, Germany
[1] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-archive/2004Feb/0076.html
This is the TEMPORARY discussion list for the W3 Semantic-Photo History
Project. For questions, contact greg@fotonotes.net.
Subscribe Instructions
Body: subscribe
Unsubscribe Instructions
Body: unsubscribe
Help
Body: help
"Greg Elin" greg@fotonotes.net
Sorry to be a pain in the arse, but is there any chance of an agenda, or
something which could point me at the URLS I should read so I can get back
up to speed before the meeting?
I've been completely out of the loop, and there seems to be specs and a site
and all sorts done!
Great work!
Cheers,
Jim.
This is the TEMPORARY discussion list for the W3 Semantic-Photo History
Project. For questions, contact greg@fotonotes.net.
Subscribe Instructions
Body: subscribe
Unsubscribe Instructions
Body: unsubscribe
Help
Body: help
You are hardly a pain in the arse, Jim. Perhaps a pleasant shiatsu in
the Gluteus Maximus, if anything. ()
Let me see if I can offer a worthwhile catch-up of sorts. And let me
add it is good to get a note from you, and this is a good time to get
back in the loop for everyone.
W3Photo Update, 03/04/2004
On one hand, the w3photo project is behind scheduled from the original
timeline. We only have an alpha repository, and tweaking continues with
the image vocab. As a result, integrating work from Southhampton
(AKTive Space) and UMD Mindswap got delayed, too.
On the other hand *excellent*, far-reaching work is being done on
important details creating ontology schemas and addressing issues
related to incorporating images and image meta-data with the semantic
web. Since 2000/2001 by my estimate, various parties in this group
have been exploring different aspects of how emerging semantic web
tools would work with photo. Now we are actually coordinating that
developed expertise, and working our way through the issues.
Also *exciting* is that this work on w3photo is happening concurrently
to major developments in the semantic web and digital imaging:
- W3C hit a major milestone in the making public working draft of the
RDF spec
- O'Reilly's Emerging Technology Conference in mid-Feb included lots of
relevant stuff (and was attended by several of us):
- Dan Brickley led a couple of sessions on FOAF:
- There was a collaborative mapping workshop all conference long
(which clearly fits with photos: http://locative.net/etcon/plan.pl
- There were several sessions around digital images, including a
preview of Nokia
"personal content" application that resides on phone and PC; and a
presentation
on Microsoft's research project Wallop by Lilly Chen which featured
(you guessed it)
selecting areas of photos.
- Ludicorp.com revealed a *very* fun image sharing application
(HTML+Flash) combining
Orkut like social networking, chat, and incredibly easy image file
sharing. I *highly*
recommend trying it with a friend.
- There are some incredible stats I'm hearing regarding how digital
cameras overtook film cameras in 2003 and the phonecam is incredibly
successful, shipping tens of millions of units.
Last night, I showed W3photo to someone less familiar with the
semantic-web and I felt a sense of excitement about the details we are
working out; what it will mean to have this kind of meta-data available
for images. So special congrats to Dan Brickley and Libby Miller. They
are hitting some major milestones with their official work while
keeping involved in this upstart project. Thanks to the other persons
on this list who deserve credit for the RDF spec, FOAF, etc, and I'm
failing to mention properly.
That's the big picture. Things are behind schedule but behind because
lots of very relevant and exciting things are happening.
Let me move toward the specifics of the alpha version of the
repository, the image vocab status, and what I hope will happen at the
IRC today and on through March.
We are trying to re-use existing vocabularies where appropriate. So the
W3PhotoVocab borrows from several vocabularies: DC, FOAF, Creative
Commons, Mindswap, etc. The project's unique contribution seems to be
in working out the combination and specific details around image
regions.
Libby has summarized the W3PhotoVocab. She's made a table of the
relevant vocabularies with pointers to their documentation and a
description of what's required and optional. This is the page I'm using
for converting Fotonotes XML to RDF:
Being new to RDF myself, I'm feeling a bit uncertain that I'm
understanding all the emails that Benjamin, Morten, and Libby have been
batting about recently which is carrying on the discussion from
January. However, I *believe* Benjamin has put together what is the
most current documentation on a RDFS/OWL ontology regarding image
regions:
Benjamin, please correct me here, but I believe your above material
tries to reflect everyone's input and represent the ideas Morten
summarized in his Jan 21 comprehensive email
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-archive/2004Jan/0096.html ?
It is also proposed that the name space for the image vocab be:
(or actually maybe)
Nothing is at these spaces, yet, though.
So I believe the above are best links for describing the vocabularies
for image regions as it now stands. I'm working to incorporate those
into the Alpha Repository.
One of the lessons I think we draw from the project so far is the
overhead required to properly create the meta-data for sharing a photo.
The metadata must clearly indicate the resource (e.g. photo) being
shared as well as the resource describing the license, parameters
related to license (e.g., date of photo), the resource(agent) enacting
the license, etc. I suspect this 'overhead' will becomes easier and
easier to do, but working out how to gather all this information into a
photo for which none of it exists created some interesting workflow
challenges, challenges that we are still working out.
The Alpha Repository is online at http://w3photo.org/photos/ and it is
best to play in the sandbox at http://w3photo.org/photos/test/
Although there are User Interface bugs and improvements required, it is
hoped the basic architecture for this repository is now in place and
people should feel free to register and upload photos. We are keeping
track of bugs at: http://esw.w3.org/topic/W3PhotoBugs .
The agenda for today's IRC is pretty lose:
From 15:00 GMT to 16:00 GMT we want to continue the discussion of image
vocab and see if we can resolve any open issues. Within this hour I
also wanted to discuss the W3Photo.org site.
From 16:00 GMT to 17:00 GMT we want to get back to integrating our new
capability of annotating photos with the W3 conferences and conference
materials. In other words, we want to look at details of incorporating
the Event-related ontology with the Image Description ontology (or
vice-versa depending on your point of view).
The agenda is loose for both parts of the chat. However let me propose
a more detailed agenda.
15:00 - greetings and general questions
15:10 - show-n-tell of posted vocabs; what's online
15:20 - discuss http://www.bnowack.de/w3photo/pages/image_doc_rdfsowl
15:40 - discuss w3photo.org website, w3photo.org/photos repository
- changes needed to explanatory site
- prioritize bug fixes, other changes to repository
- action items, summarize
16:00 - greetings, summarize first half for people just joining this
section
16:10 - Update from Southampton
16:20 - Update from Mindswap
16:30 - Discuss Event Vocab issues
16:45 - Begin wrapping up
That's my best summary. Corrections appreciated.
Greg Elin
This is the TEMPORARY discussion list for the W3 Semantic-Photo History
Project. For questions, contact greg@fotonotes.net.
Subscribe Instructions
Body: subscribe
Unsubscribe Instructions
Body: unsubscribe
Help
Body: help
