I disagree. there is no relivance test here. many people will be hard on
the eyes without necessarily needing special software to compensate.
Some people are saying that it's OK to have small text in an image because
the user can use a screen magnifier.
However, it's better to use HTML text, and let the user control the size,
font, and color of the text directly, instead of using images text and a
magnifier. It's not just preference, convenience or even cost. HTML text
is a better accommodation for low vision, and has additional advantages
when the user has motor or cognitive disabilities.
Note that this lets people who need small text to use it, while letting
other folks enlarge the text.
I addressed this earlier, but unfortunately this discussion has gotten
spread among so many lists that not everyone in the current discussion saw
my answer [1] Here's the problem with screen magnifiers compared to HTML text.
1. When you use a screen magifier, you have to scoll left and right in
addition to up and down, because the screen expands into a virtual space
larger than your screen. If the screen itself has a scrollbar, you're
using two scrolling mechanisms. This significanttly adds difficulty in
terms of keystrokes and in terms of "knowing where you are". It's a
signficant problem for anyone, and is even more of a difficulty for someone
who has a motor or cognitive impairment.
On the other hand, if you design a page right, when you have real text and
let the user enlarge fonts, the text simply wraps at the right margin and
you don't run into this problem. All you have to deal with is the vertical
scrollbar on the regular window.
2. With a screen magnifier and image text, user is no longer able to
control the font. Some fonts are better than others. With HTML text, the
user can control the fonts.
3. Some people with low vision need reverse contrast. If the buttons are
already reverse contrast, then if they reverse the whole screen to read
other body text, the buttons get normal contrast. So they have to keep
flipping the contrast depending on where they are.
4. Similarly, if all you can do is an overall screen color map, you can't
get all the text, buttons and body, to have optimal color.
Bottom line: HTML text is not mere pandering to preference, vanity,
convenience, or even cost: it's a superior accommodation.
Len
[1] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-er-ig/2000Sep/0111.html
I explained this in the message. what I disagree with is that the text can
be small. some people have low enough vision that they need larger text but
not use assistives to achieve it.
Isn't this like saying some people need glasses but are too vain to wear
them? The advantage of the small text and small buttons is that these
elements can be present on a page without taking up space needed to present
the meat of the page on the opening screen.
Anne
Anne L. Pemberton
apembert@crosslink.net
Enabling Support Foundation
Leonard R. Kasday, Ph.D.
Institute on Disabilities/UAP and Dept. of Electrical Engineering at Temple
University
(215) 204-2247 (voice) (800) 750-7428 (TTY)
Chair, W3C Web Accessibility Initiative Evaluation and Repair Tools Group
The WAVE web page accessibility evaluation assistant:
It's "better" by some standards -- it's "better" for accessibility,
certainly. No one is actually disputing that. (Indeed, Edapta's
web morphing service explicitly replaces images with styled
textual equivalents when edapting pages for many audiences, as
well as providing the capacity to create variant-size button
sets.)
However, it is important to recognize that HTML + CSS is _not_ a
workable general replacement for images as text. Most graphical
web designers will _not_ accept styled text as a solution because
of the following:
(1) CSS is not widely implemented yet and excludes older browsers.
(2) CSS support on Netscape (and to a lesser extent, IE) is seriously
buggy and cannot be relied upon.
(3) Graphical designers may have valid reasons for desiring a
specific font that is not widely available (and thus styles
are not acceptable).
(4) There are a number of effects available in images which cannot
be replicated by using styled text. As examples, consider
drop shadows on text, or mouseover "glow auras".
My personal philosophy regarding web accessibility is that "we" (the
people who understand accessibility principles and in some cases
write the guidelines) should _not_ be telling a web designer that
she should "stop using that." Instead, we should tell her how to
"make it accessible", whatever she's using. (Be it Flash, animated
GIFs, Streaming Audio, etc.)
It is "our" responsibility (as informed advocates for web accessibility)
to provide the right answers, and we have a responsibility to not
leave the web designer hanging -- it is not acceptable to say "don't
use that thing which meets your needs, instead use this method
which will not."
I suggest therefore that instead of looking for ways to _forbid_
textual images, we should rather concentrate our energies on ways
to make textual images more accessible. That may require user
agent guidelines, it may require web content guidelines, but simply
throwing out the baby with the bathwater is not sufficient.
Let's be realistic here, folks -- we _cannot_ force most web designers
to give up their textual images. If that is a requirement for
double-A accessibility, then _web designers will not design double
A sites_, period. If given a choice between the benefits of graphical
text (and you are living in denial if you claim there there are not
benefits from a design standpoint!) and accessibility, accessibility
_will lose_.
Bottom line: We should _not_ be forcing web designers to have to
make that choice! _We_ should be out finding the way to "do it
right" rather than trying to say "don't do it at all."
--Kynn
Kynn Bartlett kynn@idyllmtn.com
However, it is important to recognize that HTML + CSS is _not_ a workable general replacement for images as text.
Nor is "image as text" a workable replacement for "text as text".
Apples, oranges, William.
At some point in the so-called "design process" that text that became "image-text" was actual "text - text". Just as the PDF text or table was once not a "scanned-type" of text. The proportion of today's text that is not at some point in its career in digital (dare I even say it "ascii") form is miniscule. I don't know why "image text" is any different than any other image in requiring a text equivalent? In short I think this is already covered early in the guidelines.
I think you may be missing the point -- the discussion has not been
about "should image text require a text equivalent", it was "should
image text be thrown out entirely for double-A compliance".
Let me repeat "image-text is in fact image".
I don't think anyone is claiming it's not, so I'm not sure you need
to make this point so forcefully. :) However, I think you may have
missed _my_ point, because your response doesn't really address it...
Kynn Bartlett kynn@idyllmtn.com http://kynn.com/
Director of Accessibility, Edapta http://www.edapta.com/
Chief Technologist, Idyll Mountain Internet http://www.idyllmtn.com/
AWARE Center Director http://www.awarecenter.org/
Accessibility Roundtable Web Broadcast http://kynn.com/+on24
What's on my bookshelf? http://kynn.com/books/
Nor is "image as text" a workable replacement for "text as text". At some
point in the so-called "design process" that text that became "image-text"
was actual "text - text". Just as the PDF text or table was once not a
"scanned-type" of text. The proportion of today's text that is not at some
point in its career in digital (dare I even say it "ascii") form is
miniscule. I don't know why "image text" is any different than any other
image in requiring a text equivalent? In short I think this is already
covered early in the guidelines.
Let me repeat "image-text is in fact image". The fact that it's an image of
text is of no consequence, it's still "image" - full stop. The image of a
book cover with the author's name in some supposedly artistic font is an
image, not text. The author's name need not even be in the alt-text if the
designer doesn't think it's important to serve as a replacement for the
image of the book cover. The designer need not explain that "the eerie
mysticism of the illustration has been enhanced by the selection of a font
that..." That's up to the designer. If she can suffer the belief that the
proper replacement text for the missing image is "book cover" then so be
it. If semantics is involved we are in another venue.
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
I think you may have missed _my_ point...
Nope. Everyone's missing the "point" - there is no such entity as "image
text". When an image is made of em strong anything /em /strong it
becomes "image" and must endure the same requirements whether it is an
image of text or an image showing apples vs. oranges. It requires a textual
equivalent.
KB:: "I don't think anyone is claiming it's not, so I'm not sure you need
to make this point so forcefully. :)"
WL: The reason I'm sure that I do need to make the point "forcefully" is
that somehow it has been allowed to slip by that images of text are a
special case of images. They are not. IMO this also goes for PDF. The clear
purpose of the guidelines applicable to this entire genre is that if
there's any semantics in there it must be teased out. If not, then...
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
