Has independent interoperability been demonstrated with RFC2518 shared
locks? If you believe it has been, what are the clients and servers with
which it was demonstrated?
thanks,
Lisa
I don't think so.
Our server passes the tests in the Litmus test (as does moddav, I think),
but I'm not aware of any client actually requesting shared locks...
Julian
Accidentally caught by the spam filter. I have added
frank.biederich@adobe.com to the accept2 list, so future emails from Frank
at this email address will go straight through to the list.
- Jim
Julian -
FYI, Adobe GoLive (version 5 or later) is able to do it. No workflow is
built upon this feature, but you're able to set shared locks on resources
using the included WebDAV browser.
Best, Frank
Frank Biederich
Adobe Systems
frank.biederich@adobe.com
Regarding the interoperabiltiy of shared locks:
I've done a few tests and found the following problems with IIS 5.0 (posted
here so that it's gets archived and assigned a URL :-):
1) When reporting shared locks, IIS inserts one DAV:lockdiscovery element
for *each* shared lock into the DAV:prop element. This is plain wrong,
because each DAV: property can only have a single value (maybe the spec
should clarify this in an example?).
2) When UNLOCKing shared locks, it seems that IIS sometimes removes the
wrong lock (you have lock tokens "a", "b" and "c", remove "a", and upon a
new PROPFIND, "a" and "b" are reported).
Shared locks in moddav seem to work as expected (as far as my own tests are
concerned).
Julian
Frank, have you tested interoperability of shared locks with the Xythos
Sharemation server? What servers have you been able to create shared locks
on?
We'd only need one more interoperable client to be able to keep shared locks
as we go forward.
Lisa
Lisa -
as far as I know, GoLive wasn't even able to connect to the Xythos server during the last interoperability test (Oct 2001). But I know, we're able to set shared locks on IIS and Apache (mod_dav).
Is there any solution/workflow implemented upon shared locks? Currently we're using the exclusive locking scheme only, even within our new workgroup system in GoLive 6. So, our Adobe Web Workgroup Server doesn't support shared locks either.
Best, Frank
