Hi --
Adobe officially announced the release of Acrobat 5.0. The complete press
release and product description can be found at:
at: http://www.adobe.com/products/acrobat/solutionsacc.html
I've extracted the information concerning Acrobat and PDF accessibility
below:
Make Documents Accessible
Acrobat 5.0 software lets you create Adobe PDF documents that are accessible
to those with disabilities.
Support for high- contrast- Acrobat fully supports high- contrast settings,
which enable workers with low vision impairments to more easily read Adobe
PDF documents.
Support for screen readers- Acrobat 5.0 lets you create documents that are
compatible with third- party, Windows- based screen readers, such as Henter-
Joyce's JAWS and Window- Eyes from GW Micro, Inc. Screen readers synthesize
text into speech.
Keyboard shortcuts- Acrobat Reader software enables functionality to be
controlled through keyboard shortcuts, making it easier for people with a
broad range of disabilities to take full advantage of Acrobat.
Regards,
Mike
Mike Paciello
Founder and CTO
WebABLE, Inc.
www.webable.com
paciello@webable.com
* Author of CMP Media's *
* "Web Accessibility for People with Disabilities" *
* Order it from: http://www.amazon.com *
* http://www.bn.com *
* http://www.rdbooks.com *
* http://www.borders.com *
Hi All,
This is good news, but there's one feature I've been looking for --
the ability to add something like ALT text so that when the access
plug-in removes the image, it is replaced by the corresponding text.
Does anyone know if Acrobat 5.0 has this feature, or does any other
similar mainstream application have this capability?
Thanks in advance.
Jim
Jim Tobias
Inclusive Technologies
tobias@inclusive.com
732.441.0831 v/tty
908.907.2387 wireless
I'm not aware of any tool that supports this functionality.
My opinion is that we need to approach the creation of accessible PDF
documents the same way we did in the documentation publishing industry --
and that is simply to insure that every image contains an associated
caption, label, or title. In situations where the image requires additional
explanation, then an appropriate longer description should be contained
within the surrounding text. This places the responsibility on the writer,
the rightful owner.
When we created ICADD several years ago, we included an element called
FIGDESC for this very purpose. That element is part of the ICADD-22 DTD
which itself is part of the American Association of Publishers DTD for
creating books of any form.
We allowed for the possibility that writers and editor might not include
figdesc and the required explanation. As a result, specific instructions
to braille transcribers are included within the DTD.
-Mike
Jim,
In Acrobat 5, you can add ALT text to images in a PDF file, and the Acrobat
5 accessibility support will present Alt text to the user. However, the
Acrobat 4 access plugin does not make such ALT text available.
Loretta Guarino Reid
Adobe Systems
