I have drafted a list of the proposed tasks we came up with during
the teleconference. Please send additions or proposed
amendments/clarifications to the list.
Thanks Jutta
For Techniques Document:
1. Clean up organization of document so that information is in
appropriate sections. Under each checkpoint there would be the
following sections:
a) Clarification of Requirement- for information that is not an
actual implementation technique but a clarification of what is
required by the checkpoint. This information may be a good candidate
for transition to the next guideline revision.
b) Suggested Implementation Techniques
c) Example Implementation Techniques
d) Reference material
Part of this task is to identify checkpoints that are missing
information and to work out a scheme whereby we identify whether a
technique is sufficient to meet the checkpoint or whether it only
contributes towards meeting a checkpoint.
2. Reduce Redundancies
Where the same technique is used in several checkpoints link to a
single description of the technique.
3. Insure that examples are actually examples and not comments on
Amaya compliance.
4. Determine what the views will be (identify the types of authoring
tools or the types of content to being authored). Determine what
portions of the overall document fit into each of the views.
5. Create a compressed tree-structure-like view of the document as
per William's example for better on-line readability.
For Evaluation Document
1. Extend structure used in image section of evaluation document to
other content types.
2. Identify content types not yet covered and draft evaluation
process for the missing content types.
document as per William's example
I need more items for the leftmost column. From the top:
ATAG is a link to the Guidelines Document
Checklist is a link to the List of Checkpoints Document
Techniques is a link to the Techniques Document
Key jumps to a brief explanation
Each table item jumps to the appropriately prioritized checkpoints and on
each line the underlined number of the checkpoint links to the correct
place in the Guidelines Document and each "T" icon links to the appropriate
technique.
That's enough for an old person fixin' to fly to London so he can visit
Porlock (and Bristol on the way).
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
Oh, it's at http://rdf.pair.com/atag.htm g .
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
My father-in-law died last night so I am on my way to Providence for
the funeral. My apologies for missing the meeting and the more
in-depth discussion of the AU WCAG dependencies.
Jutta
