Anyone care to comment on the patent [6,662,341] Microsoft
was awarded today for Writing Windows Applications Using HTML?
It covers the authoring and execution of HTML that runs
in its own window outside of the browser.
Seems like it would be tougher to code around than the Eolas
patent!
Hi TheoDP,
Looks like the Patent refers to HyperText Applications (HTA).
Microsoft has had this since early MSIE 5.0 days - but I guess the Patent
only just came through.
HTAs cannot be executed over the web without invoking a security prompt in
MSIE (this is by design), and the files are totally useless in any other
browser.
They're meant for executing from the desktop for either "Intranet" style web
applications or for utilizing Windows Script Host code locally.
They are "not" meant for general public consumption, and not likely an issue
you have to code around.
More information here:
ode_entry.asp?frame=true
Actually, the whole concept is pretty slick. I've built some HTA modules for
an Intranet before. It's very much like using HTML and Script to create
Desktop apps.
You can customize the HTA window's title bar, chrome and icon - just like a
Desktop app, and it never has to look like a browser window.
Many components and configuration dialogs in the newer Windows Oss are just
HTA files.
Of course, some a**holes have produced malicious applications with HTA, so
never "OK" an HTA file you download from an unknown source.
Hope this helps. Cheers......
Scott Cadillac,
XML-Extranet - http://xmlx.ca
403-281-6090 - scott@xmlx.ca
Well-formed Development
Extranet solutions using C# .NET, Witango, MSIE and XML
How very interesting, thanks.
I see that this was filed on May 20 1999.
Under 'other references' I also see our product WPM (which was subsequently
renamed Zeepe [http://www.zeepe.com/] ) flagged as being available "at least
as early as June 1999". In fact WPM was first made public and offered for
sale on our company site during May 1998. WPM/Zeepe is also a "method and
apparatus for writing a windows application in HTML" as described in the
abstract of this patent [6,662,341].
I wonder what the intention is here.
Jerry Mead
knowing MS to take you to court and litigate you out of business or just
steal it and dare you to sue them.. G ...seriously though with MS who knows?
May God Bless you and everything you touch.
My "foundation" verse:
Isaiah 54:17 No weapon that is formed against thee shall prosper; and every tongue that shall rise against thee in judgment thou shalt condemn. This is the heritage of the servants of the LORD, and their righteousness is of me, saith the LORD.
