I continue to have serious problems with search and replace in HTML
source files. Basically, I simply can't get it to work reliably. Yes,
edit mode is on when this happens. I wish that were the problem (no edit
mode) but it isn't.
I just tried to find all instances of " tool " and do either a replace
on request or an automatic replace, "in the whole document", such that
the string becomes " page tools ". There were at least four instances of
the search string in the file, but Amaya told me it couldn't find any.
I've had this happen so many times that I simply give up doing this
function in source code editing with Amaya. My text editor (jEdit) does
this fine. I use Amaya for text composition, and leave source code alone.
I don't really want to have this restriction. Any suggestions as to what
I'm doing wrong?
I'm using Amaya 8.3 on a Win-XP OS.
t.
Tom Cloyd, M.S., M.A., L.M.H.C
Psychotherapist in private practice
Spokane, WA, U.S.A: (509) 475-9617, (800) 841-4424
Governing Board, EMDR Resource Cooperative
"EMDR Portal" website -- http://www.EMDRPortal.com
On Sat, 13 Mar 2004 04:59:58 -0800
Due to the coloration, the searched text is within 3 different elements " "
"tool" and " ". To be able to do that we need to change radically the search
algorithm. One other solution would be to remove the coloration on request.
Irene.
Ir?ne Vatton INRIA Rh?ne-Alpes
INRIA ZIRST
e-mail: Irene.Vatton@inria.fr 655 avenue de l'Europe
Having to understand that Amaya has some interenal mechanism for colouring
source code that breaks its ability to search across colours is not very
intuitive for users. I think a much better solution is to change the search
algorithm so it can search across element boundaries and find text as
it is rendered in a particular view.
just my personal opinion
Chaals
Charles, Irene, and List:
Irene - thanks for explaining to me why this problem exists. I "get it"
now. Of course, the problem remains. *MY* problem is that I am wanting
Amaya to do as much for me in the arena of web page source code
development and management as possible. I love this program already for
what it can do for me in this area.
I'm slowly developing a suite of open-source software and procedures for
web page development and management which I'm hoping I can then use to
teach my peers in professional mental to develop and manage their own
web pages. These are smart people who often are NOT particularly
engineers by temperament, but who could truly benefit from access to the
great power of the Internet as a content publication technology.
If we cannot make the process more accessible for these people, they are
relegated to being mere observers. This is a tragedy. The W3C needs, in
my opinion, to give less time to developing elegant sophisticated
technologies for things people are hardly doing at present and probably
do not greatly need to do, and more time to solving this accessibility
problem. I can live a long time without scalable vector graphics. I die
tomorrow on the Internet if I cannot easily and quickly update the text
content and format of my web page. Right now it's only relatively easy
if I have access to a good WYSIWYG source code editor. I can pay
hundreds of dollars for one (and I do own two copies of Dreamweaver) or
I can use Amaya and a couple of other programs. I'm promoting the second
solution, because it's simply a door more people will walk through. It's
a more accessible solution.
Part of web site management is being able to make changes across
multiple lines of code (and yes, across multiple files) using a find and
replace function. Right now, since Amaya doesn't reliably allow me to do
this, I use the marvelous open source text editor jEdit (see SourceForge
for the binary module), and it works fine. However, NO program I can
find outside of Dreamweaver allows me to do search and replace **across
multiple lines of code**. I *can* do this in jEdit as soon as I learn
how to use regular expressions better than I can at present. In this
area, also vital to web site management, Amaya appears to simply be "out
of the race".
But, as Charles points out, the need remains.
In software development, history continually shows us that functionality
tends to get developed before usability. It's rare for developers to
carefully assess user needs and THEN respond directly. That, indeed, is
the topic of concern (but with products, not software), for Jakob
Nielsen's website column this week
( http://www.useit.com/alertbox/20040315.html ).
I know that this post has been wide-ranging and a bit tangential. But
the point I have to make is that Amaya lives or dies in relation to the
degree to which it meets user needs - unless, of course, it is "vanity
software"--some kind of project done primarily to please its developers
and offered to the world only as a second priority. To the degree that
this is the case, IF IT IS AT ALL, it is not, of course, illegitimate.
It's just a different thing, and if its what it takes to get the
development to occur at all, then I personally can live with it.
I do want to make an appeal, however, to the notion that there is
something glorious about really being helpful to a group of people who
in turn help other people. If Amaya helps ME help some of my peers to do
their work better, then it's having a serious effect on this corner of
the world, and this is no small achievement.
To that end, I will continue to hope that this program gets ever better.
I use it every day, and expect to continue doing so. I will soon be
promoting it to an organization that has several thousand members, many
of whom would love to have web pages but find the technology
intimidating. I love what Amaya can presently do, and hope for continued
development. I hope that improved search and replace functionality is
part of that development, and NOW you know why I hope this!
Irene, I continue to marvel at, and appreciate, your involvement with
and contributions to this list. For that, and your excellent work on
Amaya, I thank you.
t.
Tom Cloyd, M.S., M.A., L.M.H.C
Psychotherapist in private practice
Spokane, WA, U.S.A: (509) 475-9617, (800) 841-4424
Governing Board, EMDR Resource Cooperative
"EMDR Portal" website -- http://www.EMDRPortal.com
