Team:
Between --- lines you will find the text proposed. Any comments must occur in the next few minutes (sorry).
The W3C Internationalization Working Group, Web Services Task Force [WSTF] is pleased to announce the publication of the Web Services Usage Scenarios Working Draft. This document contains a series of different internationalization issues or demonstrations using existing Web service standards and technology. The goal of this document is to gather as many different useful descriptions together as quickly as possible. This will help WSTF to:
o create "best practices" and tutorial information for Web service implementers and technologies
o propose standards for Web services and related technologies to support international operation
o demonstrate issues in existing Web services technologies and standards to the groups responsible for their development and maintenance.
The current version of this document is located here:
For more information on WSTF, visit our home page, located here: http://www.w3.org/International/ws
The WSTF welcomes public participation and public submission of usage scenarios. Anyone may submit a usage scenario to WSTF for consideration towards inclusion into this document by sending the scenario via email to mailto:www-international-comments@w3.org.
Each scenario or group of scenarios must follow the format of the scenarios in our working draft in order to receive our full consideration. The title of the submission should be "WSTF submission: title " where " title " is the name of your scenario or scenarios. Please note that this is a public forum and task force and you should refrain from sending or submitting proprietary material or information.
Addison P. Phillips
Director, Globalization Architecture
webMethods, Inc.
Internationalization is an architecture.
It is not a feature.
Chair, W3C-I18N-WG Web Services Task Force
To participate see http://www.w3.org/International/ws
Hello Addison,
Many thanks for your work. I used your material to put some
text in the 'Status of this document' section. What I currently
have is:
We invite contributions of additional Usage Scenarios and Use Cases to
document aspects of Web Services internationalization that are not covered
yet in this document. To contribute, please use a format similar to the one
used in this document, and send your contribution to the
www-i18n-comments@w3.org mailing list (public archive). Please use [Web
Services] or [WSUS] in the subject.
This is on purpose a bit more personal than your text below. We still
can tune some details tomorrow, but it's good enough now to request
Tim's okay.
I'll send more comments on your proposal tomorrow.
Regards, Martin.
That looks great. For my part I purposely made the text LESS personal
because I thought that might fit the style of the WSUS better.
Regards,
Addison
Martin, thank you for all updates. I didn't update the document today,
because I think it looks nice. If you have what you haven't done yet
today(12/19), please let me know. I can work for it during your night.
Thanks,
Kentaroh
Kentaroh Noji : nojik@jp.ibm.com
"Addison Phillips [wM]" aphillips@webmethods.com
Sent by: public-i18n-ws-request@w3.org
12/19/2002 09:41 AM
Subject: RE: Call for Participation/Scope section
That looks great. For my part I purposely made the text LESS personal
because I thought that might fit the style of the WSUS better.
Regards,
Addison
The 'status of this document' has some boilerplate that is pretty
formal, but there are not many limitations for the rest.
Regards, Martin.
Hello Addison, others,
Here is a rewrite. Please feel free to change or discuss.
The Web Services Task Force of the W3C Internationalization Working Group
is pleased to announce the publication of the first
"Web Services Internationalization Usage Scenarios" Working Draft at
[put actual location here].
This document contains a series of different internationalization issues
or demonstrations using existing Web service standards and technology.
The goal of this document is to gather as many different useful descriptions
together as quickly as possible. This will help us to:
o create "best practices" and tutorial information for Web service
implementers and technologies
o propose standards for Web services and related technologies to support
international operation
o demonstrate issues in existing Web services technologies and standards
to the groups responsible for their development and maintenance.
For more information on the Task Force, visit our home page, located here:
We invite contributions of additional Usage Scenarios and Use Cases to document
aspects of Web Services internationalization that are not covered yet in this
document. To contribute, please use a format similar to the one used in this
document, and send your contribution to the www-i18n-comments@w3.org mailing
list (publicly archived). Please use [Web Services] or [WSUS] in the subject.
Please refrain from sending proprietary material or information.
Comments, please. I wonder whether we should also include a paragraph
inviting additional participants.
Regards, Martin.
Martin and Kentaroh:
The page looks great. Thanks for shepherding us through this first
publication.
Martin: Your text looks pretty good too. I think further invitation for
participation would be useful also. Perhaps:
We invite you to contribute additional Usage Scenarios and Use Cases to
document aspects of Web Services internationalization that are not yet
covered by this document. To contribute, please use a format similar to the
one used in this document, and send your contribution to the
www-i18n-comments@w3.org mailing list (publicly archived). Please use [Web
Services] or [WSUS] in the subject. Please refrain from sending proprietary
material or information.
We also invite you to contribute directly to our activities by joining the
Task Force. Members of the Task Force will have the opportunity to influence
the internationalization of Web services standards as they evolve.
Information on joining is located on our home page:
Let me know what you think (members). I would like to spam the usual lists
with this (suggestions for other lists welcome). The lists I spammed last
time were:
unicode
locales
i18n-prog
nelocsig
Thanks,
Addison
Addison P. Phillips
Director, Globalization Architecture
webMethods, Inc.
Internationalization is an architecture.
It is not a feature.
Chair, W3C-I18N-WG Web Services Task Force
To participate see http://www.w3.org/International/ws
[WSTF]
Hi,
If I had known there was time to edit, I would have commented earlier.
I think it may be more effective to be more concise and direct. Also the
comment on proprietary material should perhaps not be a request, but an
imperative.
I do agree the suggestion to join should be included as well.
Here is my suggested text.
I changed the second para and the prop. material comment. I reordered
the invite to join, and information plus url paras.
I removed the "as quickly as possible". (It shouldnt be said without a
justification in my opinion. Otherwise, everything is aqap.
I would suggest we add a date by when we would like responses.
hth
tex
The Web Services Task Force of the W3C Internationalization Working
Group is pleased to announce the publication of the first "Web Services
Internationalization Usage Scenarios" Working Draft at [put actual
location here].
The goal of this document is to gather together many different scenarios
using web services standards and technologies, in ways that require
attention to internationalization.
This will help us to:
o create "best practices" and tutorial information for Web service
implementers and technologies
o propose standards for Web services and related technologies to
support international operation
o demonstrate issues in existing Web services technologies and
standards to the groups responsible for their development and
maintenance.
We invite you to contribute additional Usage Scenarios and Use Cases to
document aspects of Web Services internationalization that are not yet
covered by this document. To contribute, please use a format similar to
the one used in this document, and send your contribution to the
www-i18n-comments@w3.org mailing list (publicly archived). Please use
[Web Services] or [WSUS] in the subject.
Do not send proprietary material or information.
We also invite you to join this Task Force. Members of the Task Force
will have the opportunity to influence the internationalization of Web
services standards as they evolve.
For more information on the Task Force, visit our home page, located
here: http://www.w3.org/International/ws.
Information on joining is located on our home page:
Tex Texin cell: +1 781 789 1898 mailto:Tex@XenCraft.com
Xen Master http://www.i18nGuy.com
XenCraft http://www.XenCraft.com
Making e-Business Work Around the World
Hello,
I agree with Tex's comments: it may be more effective to be more concise
and direct. I think it is good idea to add a paragraph for participation,
too.
I would like to spam the usual lists with this (suggestions for other
lists welcome).
When the text is sent to other mailing lists, I think that it can notify
that discussion of WSTF takes place on the public mailing list
public-i18n-ws@w3.org together with the call for participation.
Thanks,
Kentaroh
Kentaroh Noji : nojik@jp.ibm.com
