Hi everyone, I was given several action items at the Boston face-to-
face. Some I was pleased with, others are the start of what will
need some discussion and other thoughts.
This is one of them: Checkpoint 2.1. I'm not overly pleased with this
so far, but I think it identifies a few points that could be useful.
Note: I consider "navigation" to be a specific case of "interactions"
and thus it may not be necessary to separate the two -- except if
it's necessary for clarity's sake.
Action Item: Rewrite 2.1, possibly splitting into two guidelines
2.1 Provide a variety of navigation mechanisms
glossary Navigation mechanisms /glossary help
the user find information on your site. Providing
more than one navigation mechanism makes content
easier to locate and use.
ISSUE: What does "a variety" mean? By this guideline
I mean "use a site map, use a search feature, use navigation
bars" etc.
3.X Provide consistent interaction behaviors
(should follow WD-WCAG20-20010125 guideline 3.1)
glossary Interaction behaviors /glossary are the
results of user actions. They include, for example:
* events caused by the user activating a link
* rollover effects and popup menus
* form submission, after activating a submit
button
* interface controls within applets or scripts
These actions should be predictable and sensible
to the end user; this is achieved by making the
interactions consistent, both within the site
and with commonly used models of computer
interaction.
ISSUE: Should there be a separate checkpoint for navigation
consistency? If so, how do we define navigation consistency?
Kynn Bartlett kynn@idyllmtn.com
Kynn,
Comments in line ...
It's important to consider the size of the site to be navigated. At what
size does the author need to add a site map? a navigation bar? A search
feature?
Anne
Anne Pemberton
apembert@erols.com
Another good issue. Probably a "techniques" issue but I don't
mean with that suggestion that we put off the discussion of this!
Techniques or checkpoint/guideline, we definitely need to arrive
at a decision on this.
A good source of info on this is the O'Reilly book "Information
Architecture for the World Wide Web", which I've used in a textbook
in my online course on Web Management.
--K
Kynn Bartlett kynn@reef.com
Technical Developer Liaison
Reef North America
Tel +1 949-567-7006
ACCESSIBILITY IS DYNAMIC. TAKE CONTROL.
Kynn,
This is your attempt to create a checkpoint that encompasses 2.5, right?
[2.5 If search functions are provided, provide a variety of search options
for different skill levels and preferences.]
In that case then you might want to say, "provide more than one path or
mechanism to find content." still pretty rough, but "more than one" might
be a bit tighter than "a variety."
then we could talk about the "scent of information" and the variety of ways
people navigate information. It's like saying, "there are 5 paths to get
from A to B and people will choose a path based on which stores they wish
to pass or which park they want to walk through."
this is good. At the face to face we talked about "consistent" having two
meanings in this context:
1. consistency with standard UI design.
2. consistent usage within a site.
This ought to mentioned in the rationale as well, no?
I think navigation is a subset of navigation and therefore a separate
checkpoints is not necessary.
--w
wendy a chisholm
world wide web consortium
web accessibility initiative
madison, wi usa
Oops, I meant to say that I think navigation is a subset of interaction.
--w
wendy a chisholm
world wide web consortium
web accessibility initiative
madison, wi usa
Aaah. agreed. (althugh navigation is a susbset of navigation via an identity
transformation grin/ )
chaals
Oops, I meant to say that I think navigation is a subset of interaction.
--w
wendy a chisholm
world wide web consortium
web accessibility initiative
madison, wi usa
Location: 21 Mitchell street FOOTSCRAY Vic 3011, Australia
(or W3C INRIA, Route des Lucioles, BP 93, 06902 Sophia Antipolis Cedex, France)
This is a question of how much abstraction we can get the reader to follow.
When we talk about consistency of interaction, people will think of things
like
key bindings and icon to action bindings. Reasonably local stuff. And
reasonably explicit.
Navigation, they think of the structural patterns used to put the content
together. The structure that one navigates is relatively implicit, and
far-reaching. People don't think of navigation as their interacting with the
document. The illusion is that there is a scroll of paper behind that scroll
window and the scroll with the text on it doesn't change, one just scrolls it
past the viewport. One is clearly interacting with the state of one's view of
the content when one navigates. Forms and next/previous buttons and the like
people are more likely to conceptualize as interaction. So I would be careful
about merging the discussion of these two.
Funny, we just had the same question come up in the User Agent Guidelines
Al
