I just downloaded Amaya and was looking forward see a browser with full
support for CSS 2.0 and HTML 4.0, but to my disappointment it does not
support frames, nor does it contain any JavaScript functionality, thus
no DHTML is possible. Yes, I have read the archive and your argument
that it does support frames, but in a different way than all other
browsers. So what is this good for? Pages in framesets are designed to
be viewed together, not seperately. So maybe this might be a good
editor, but as a browser it is useless.
Besides there seems to be a bug with transparent GIFs. Tables are not
displayed properly, there seems to be a problem with the height of table
rows... And how do I recognize links when the mouse pointer does not
change. There is no status line or any indication that I can (double)
click certain elements...
Regards,
Martin
Amaya is an editor, not a browser - in particular it has no
pretensions to be a freeware competitor to IE and NS browsers. I
believe it is funded by W3C and, as Microsoft are a major member of
W3C, I cannot see it getting any funding to compete with Microsoft
products.
Lynx handles frames in the same sort of way.
David Woolley - Office: David Woolley djw@bts.co.uk
BTS Home: david@djwhome.demon.co.uk
Wallington TQ 2887 6421
England 51 21' 44" N, 00 09' 01" W (WGS 84)
Any views expressed in this message are those of the individual sender,
except where the sender specifically states them to be the views of BTS.
David ,
Amaya is presented in the W3C pages on the subject as a browser/editor that
is experimental and fully HTML 4 compliant, unlike MS or NS browsers. It is
an editor as well, so it seems to me you didn't answer the question of the
original writer. Also, who mentioned anything about freeware. The claims
about Amaya is what is at issue here.
Amaya is an editor, not a browser - in particular it has no
pretensions to be a freeware competitor to IE and NS browsers. I
believe it is funded by W3C and, as Microsoft are a major member of
W3C, I cannot see it getting any funding to compete with Microsoft
products.
Second, what has MS being a major player in the W3C have to do with funding
or the inability of Amaya to be a full featured browser. Amaya is a
"experiment" of the W3C right? Why wouldn't someone fund such a project in
spite of having a competitive product. Why, everyone knows that Microsoft is
into "open source" support, right?!? What's the competition. No one, in their
right mind, new to the Internet would use Amaya. It's too confusing relative
to the MS/NS/Olympia/HotJava/etc. browsers. This "experiment" appears to be
for those that, at least partly, know what their doing.
Third, Amaya does not support frames, as frames are presently used/viewed.
Whether Lynx displays frames the same as Amaya is irrelevant. The question
really is "Is frames, as they are used now on the Internet, HTML 4
compliant?" If they are, Amaya should display them as they are meant to be
displayed. If not, what is the Proper HTML 4 protocol for creating them
properly. That is the issue here.
That was implied rather than explicit. Many people reject IE and NS
for more or less political reasons and are looking for a freeware
replacement when they try to use Amaya as a browser - they tend to
end up as described in the subject.
On frames... my reading between the lines is that the writers of HTML
4.0 were documenting a faite accompli and would rather have excluded
them from the spec entirely. As this is only an impression, you are
free to interpret it things the opposite way. You might want to
note, though, that the frames DTD is based on the loose version of
the non-frames DTD, not the strict one.
David Woolley - Office: David Woolley djw@bts.co.uk
BTS Home: david@djwhome.demon.co.uk
Wallington TQ 2887 6421
England 51 21' 44" N, 00 09' 01" W (WGS 84)
Any views expressed in this message are those of the individual sender,
except where the sender specifically states them to be the views of BTS.
It's possible but frames _are_ a part of HTML 4 and if Amaya doesn't
support frames in the way one would expect from a browser (other than
Lynx) then it isn't truly HTML 4 compliant.
Just my equivalent of 2 c.
There are other issues with Amaya which make it hard for me to use. But
I don't have to delve into those now.
M.
As been told before: Amaya is primary an editor, and on the second look a
browser. The way Amaya 1.4 targets to implement frames promises enough for
me: Frames are just a way to display more than one page at once in a given
layout. I think a speparate view (Frame view) should be given on frames.
CB
Vote against SPAM!: http://www.politik-digital.de/spam/
Corne' Beerse| Alcatel Telecom Nederland
In-reply-to: Your message of Tue, 20 Apr 1999 19:15:14 +0200."
Do you mean that HTML 4 browsers for blind people are not HTML 4 compliant
just because they doesn't display frames as IE or Netscape?
I guess you make a confusion between structure compliance and rendering
compliance.
One major benefit of HTML is that it describes information which can be
read on different devices (dumb terminals, large color screens, and in
near future mobiles). Obviously it mustn't be displayed with the same
rendering
on all these devices.
CSS have also be designed to alter the *standard* HTML rendering.
I'm interested. If you have enough time to send us a message about it?
Regards
Irene.
You got a point there. I just suppose I have a hard time seeing (no pun
intended) the web as a medium for blind people. I know however that
they use it - I actually got a question about my own site from someone
who couldn't see it.
Hmm, no. But then I think you contradict yourself here a bit. As it is
as you say, wouldn't it be appropriate if Amaya could display frames in
the same way as, say, Navigator? Perhaps one should be able to have an
option somewhere switching between methods to display frames?
And my main gripe about Amaya is that as over 90 percent of the
visitors to my site uses either Navigator or Explorer, and I use frames
on one part of the site, AND Amaya is an graphical editor it would be
very nice if I could view the results in Amaya and not have to change
to some other app for this.
BTW, you talk about different platforms. Isn't that the future of XML?
(I'm reading up on XML right now). Are there any plans to do an
XML-editing module for Amaya or as an stand-alone test editor?
Not now, sorry. It has to do with (among other things) the display of
images as compared to the rendering in Navigator. Perhaps I'm too
impatient to use Amaya properly.
Cheers,
Martin S.
Well, maybe you could look at
to see *some* of the organisations who are on the WWW relating
to blindness. Then there are the organisations for and of
deafblind people, who basically use braille (rather than speech)
to access the WWW.
No, this says "there is not just one way to do this".
Just because Amaya, Lynx, Getweb, www4mail, do this
DIFFERENTLY doesn't make them WRONG. This is no contradiction.
So they have to write the code at least twice? And this is when
they have all the other stuff to write?
So up to 10% of your visitore are not worth the trouble? You have
obviously not considered those in poorer countries who are
browsing the WWW using e-mail alone. Those methods
were started by W3C, actually by CERN, with the Agora program.
Hugh
hgs@dmu.ac.uk
Now, you are contradicting your own argument. You say that that difference
isn't wrong and Amaya supports a different kind of frame rendering. So you
go on to argue against the standard (by volume) way of rendering frames.
As you say there is more than one way to do frames.
And you obviously have not seen the site - or you wouldn't write such
rubbish. There is a non-frame version available for the framed section.
Apologies if I was wrong I thought Amaya was a tool, not a religion.
M.
You were asking for an option to change how it is done.
This means it must be capable of peforming in at least 2 different
styles according to how they set your option, -- how it does it now
AND how you want it done. That is what I mean about writing
the display functionality twice.
No, -- I did not see (possibly missed) the URL for it.
The existance of the "no frames" version could
on part of the site, with no reference to a no-frames version
of that part). You also told us that a blind person said that
they could not see the site and then went on to mention this
percentage, so that is what I was talking about
here: assuming your users are using Netscape or IE, when
blind users could be using Brookestalk, PW Webspeak, IBM homepage
reader, or some other browser than those two, and other users
could, for quite valid reasons, be using many different browsers
include mobile phones and e-mail.
It is a tool, and I don't believe it is perfect either. If
the forcefulness of my comments seemed religious, it was
brought on by your assumption about blind people. I currently
cannot use Amaya, because I cannot configure it to use large
print, and use light on dark colours.
Hugh
hgs@dmu.ac.uk
In the forthcoming version of Amaya, you'll be able to change the
font menu size, the default zoom, and the colors from a preferences menu.
There's also an option for enabling/disabling double-click activation of
links.
-Jose
Excellent news! Thank you. I look forward to trying this
out.
Something to consider, which is non-trivial, and obviously
not based on code I have not seen :-) --
Under NetScape I set the thing to use my colours always.
Sometimes this catches me out, when GIF images have clear
backgrounds on the assumption that the page is white or light
grey and the image is of text; I end up having to read
"black on black" text -- although due to sampling I get a light
outline of the text in a grainy sort of way! So I turn
off "use my colours always", then this problem
also comes up when people set the forground colour to black
but not the background colour, so my default (black) is used.
Or the reverse -- they set the page to white, and I get my default
(white). My workaround for that is to use a vile shade of
green for text at the moment!
Is it possible to use HSV space to map these colours to be
as far apart as possible? If the pertinent colours are "Near"
then move them apart so they are not. This may be a topic
of Human Computer Interaction research at the moment, and it
may be awkward from other points of view: one would need to
have loaded all the images one was going to load to work out
which were the critical colours to move, then how to move them
would be an issue.
Anyway, I plant this seed in the hope that you get a "bolt
of inspiration" about how to do this, if what you have already
written doesn't cover it.
Good.
Thank you again,
Hugh
hgs@dmu.ac.uk
unsubscribe
Amen. I have wished for some kind of browser intelligence in
this area since I first used Mosaic n years ago. I'd hate to hafta be
the one to figure out a simple, reliable way to do it, though:-)
Thank you. Well, I was thinking along the lines of:
HSV space is based on a circle, with hues (H) around the outside
and greys in the middle, and it extends out of the plane to
give the intensity (V) from black to white. The Saturation (S)
is the distance from the middle out, so (h,s,v) gives the
co-ordinates of any colour (like (theta, r, z)).
So my idea was that the points in the space, which represent
an individual colour would repel eachother like charged particles,
and so those close together would move furthest in a time step.
If the "charge" is proportional to the number of pixels then that
may help...
This is all very well, but it is computationally expensive,
colours which fly past others will make images look odd, pixels
that are exactly the same colour when they should not be, still
will retain that problem.
A linear transformation to fill out the space as best as possible
(like a monochrome contrast stretch) would help with some, but
not all of these problems, but as I say, it needs someone to he
hit by a bolt of inspiration, really.
-------p--a--s--s--i--o--n-----n--e--e--d--s-----a-----f--a--c--e-------
"oncology recapitulates philately" --Mark Maxson Robert M. Praetorius
"balance, not symmetry" --Mark Stanley home: rmp@MA.UltraNet.Com
(attribution by Stigler) work: RPraetorius@AspenRes.Com
Hugh
hgs@dmu.ac.uk
Amen. I have wished for some kind of browser intelligence in
this area since I first used Mosaic n years ago. I'd hate to hafta be
the one to figure out a simple, reliable way to do it, though:-)
-------p--a--s--s--i--o--n-----n--e--e--d--s-----a-----f--a--c--e-------
"oncology recapitulates philately" --Mark Maxson Robert M. Praetorius
"balance, not symmetry" --Mark Stanley home: rmp@MA.UltraNet.Com
(attribution by Stigler) work: RPraetorius@AspenRes.Com
I welcome anyone who might be able to use the 'net. If my statement
about blind people was perceived as offensive I apologies. I have
nothing against blind people at all. The blind person visiting my site
did not complain about not being able to navigate it, she asked as
question about period cooking recipes. I just had forgotten that blind
people actually use the net. No big deal.
Cheers,
Martin S.
Apology accepted. Thank you.
No, I understand that. The assumption that got to me was:
intended) the web as a medium for blind people." -- which is
not "having anything against" blind people, but leaves
them excluded nonetheless.
I know what you mean by "No big deal", i.e. it was just an
oversight, but this "forgetting" is precisely what I was
talking about. The rise and rise of GUIs continues, but I
think screen reading programs were still a year behind the
last time I read about them. I have been trying to get
large widgets under X on the Suns for about 10 years, but
these things are forgotten. Then there is the issue of
accessibility for deaf people, terminals with "visible bells",
text alternatives to audio files....
If I have inspired you or anyone to consider these matters
further I have a section on WWW accessibility here:
More contributions to it are welcome.
But I will end here, before my "soapbox" collapses! :-)
Hugh
hgs@dmu.ac.uk
