No direct mention of people with disabilities, but support for
cross-browser design:
--Kynn
Kynn Bartlett kynn@operamail.com
My Browser Is Faster Than Yours
Hurrah! On account of him being a Famous Writer and all, he's nailed the
point I've been trying to make since attending the WAI launch in
'97. Working for government force will just add another reason to the pile
encouraging companies and people to take their sites offshore (encryption
restriction, taxes, etc.), and besides which it pisses people off to tell
them what to do (instead of showing them how it can help them). The
conservative and libertarian sites that are railing against section 508 (if
I've got the number right) would be taking exactly the opposite approach if
instead the WAI were presented as an industry consortium voluntarily
embracing a diverse Internet community without government involvement.
-Chris
Christopher R. Maden, Solutions Architect
Yomu: URL:http://www.yomu.com/
One Embarcadero Center, Ste. 2405
San Francisco, CA 94111
Working for government force will just add another reason to the pile
encouraging companies and people to take their sites offshore
(encryption
restriction, taxes, etc.), and besides which it pisses people off to
tell
them what to do (instead of showing them how it can help them). The
conservative and libertarian sites that are railing against section 508
(if I've got the number right) would be taking exactly the opposite
approach if instead the WAI were presented as an industry consortium
voluntarily embracing a diverse Internet community without government
involvement.
That really sounds great but has had essentially zero effect. The
publicity surrounding Section 508 has had much effect including
engendering "backlash" from the usual suspects.
Got to have standards.
Got to enforce the standards.
In matters similar to this in all civil/human rights movements there is
this frequent cry "you can't legislate morality, what's needed is
education." One of the best educations is a 2x4 upside yo' head.
I don't know if Chris is advocating we take no further steps to
promulgate regulations concerning standards compliance by government Web
sites or the proscription against our taxes being used to buy
inaccessible software, but if he is...
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
Whether section 508 will have much of an impact is still out to the jury in
my mind. But I think it is one of the first right things the feds have
done for accessibility in a long time.
In the physical world I firmly believe that standards on what's meant by
"accessible" have had a very positive effect. Now we have some clearly
delineated standards that one can point to in the information technology
sector.
The conservative and libertarian claptrap that it is unconstitutional and
such is pure bunk. I can't go out and build a factory polluting the
environment and simply say tough luck for the people who have to suffer.
We live in the information age and need standards and guidelines to ensure
everyone has access.
Quite frankly education and appealing to corporate good will only go so far
and thus far I'd say that hasn't been far at all. I say good for the
feds,I'm tired of my tax dollars continuing to support inaccessibility and
am glad that some level of change will happen because of 508.
If businesses close because of 508, then it is their own fault. Here the
government is spelling out exactly what they want a business to do. Any
business person worth a penny will grab the chance to get a customer to be
this specific.
Kelly
While ISO standards have force of law in some countries, some of the most
successful standards in terms of compliance include HTTP, SMTP, and
XML. One (XML) is "enforced" by an industry consortium (the W3C), and the
other two by a decentralized amorphous group (the IETF). These standards
are successful because the benefits of compliance are obvious and intensive
education efforts have been run by various groups at various times. (AOL
and Microsoft had notable non-compliance events with HTTP. They were
smacked into line not by any authority, but by a failure to communicate
with other Internet entities.)
In the case of accessibility, law enforcement will produce grudging
adherence to the letter of the law, which will not actually improve the
accessibility of the Web. Education that demonstrates the concrete
benefits of real accessibility will produce motivated accessibility efforts
on the part of content providers.
Any sysadmin knows the value of a LART. But the sysadmin has real
enforcement power on a system. The biggest problem with trying to enforce
anything on the Internet is that actual power to change anything is close
to zero. Any law ultimately has a gun behind it; figuring out where to
point those guns on the 'net is next to impossible. Enforcement *can't*
work - my philosophical disagreement with it is moot.
If I am, what? You'll take a 2x4 to my head?
I want to make it clear that there is a significant difference between laws
requiring that the government itself be accessible - which is effectively
the same as a corporate regulation - and laws requiring that other entities
be accessible. Here I'm referring to the DOJ finding that Web sites were
likely public accommodations covered by the ADA. I think that attempts to
rigorously enforce general accessibility, whether through litigation or
criminal proceedings, will give accessibility a bad name and hinder efforts
to make the Web a better place. A better idea is to vote with your feet,
and to encourage others to do the same. Organize boycotts and awards. I
use Lynx as my primary browser, and I simply refuse to visit sites that
can't be seen with Lynx. It acts as an excellent bozo filter; generally,
if it doesn't work in Lynx, the content really isn't that interesting anyway.
-Chris
Christopher R. Maden, Solutions Architect
Yomu: URL:http://www.yomu.com/
One Embarcadero Center, Ste. 2405
San Francisco, CA 94111
All,
I have been following this discussion with some amusement and some
consternation. I am wondering if the person who says the force of law will
produce gruding compliance, has ever had find a restroom that could
accomdate their wheelchair?
The Web is no longer a separate and distinct entity. It is more and more
becoming a part of everyday life. With that in mind it should be clear that
tne only way some organizations will comply with making things accessible is
by the force of law. This is not directed at those who would do it anyway.
I have seen estimates that some 70-90 % of web sites are inaccessible. Now
whether these figures are accurate is not the point, the point is that many
web sites are not accessible, and people with disabilities are being
separated from others and denied access to vital products and services.
The fact is that this will make a bad situation ( 80-90% of people with
disabilties who can work are unemployed or underemployed) even worse. All
the academic arguments in the world will not change this. If the force of
law was not necessary to level the playing field then the ADA would have
been unecessary. As it stands it has not done enough.
Again I suspect that many who rail against the force of law are neither
disabled nor unemployed. I suggest that they take a good long look at the
figures about this situation and re assess their postition. Let me add this
as well, I would rather have people gainfully employed and paying taxes than
on social security and being supported by those who do work. Most of the
folks I know on SSI feel the same way.
Just for the record I am disabled and employed.
Sincerely,
Mike Burks
Behalf Of Christopher R. Maden
While ISO standards have force of law in some countries, some of the most
successful standards in terms of compliance include HTTP, SMTP, and
XML. One (XML) is "enforced" by an industry consortium (the W3C), and the
other two by a decentralized amorphous group (the IETF). These standards
are successful because the benefits of compliance are obvious and intensive
education efforts have been run by various groups at various times. (AOL
and Microsoft had notable non-compliance events with HTTP. They were
smacked into line not by any authority, but by a failure to communicate
with other Internet entities.)
In the case of accessibility, law enforcement will produce grudging
adherence to the letter of the law, which will not actually improve the
accessibility of the Web. Education that demonstrates the concrete
benefits of real accessibility will produce motivated accessibility efforts
on the part of content providers.
Any sysadmin knows the value of a LART. But the sysadmin has real
enforcement power on a system. The biggest problem with trying to enforce
anything on the Internet is that actual power to change anything is close
to zero. Any law ultimately has a gun behind it; figuring out where to
point those guns on the 'net is next to impossible. Enforcement *can't*
work - my philosophical disagreement with it is moot.
If I am, what? You'll take a 2x4 to my head?
I want to make it clear that there is a significant difference between laws
requiring that the government itself be accessible - which is effectively
the same as a corporate regulation - and laws requiring that other entities
be accessible. Here I'm referring to the DOJ finding that Web sites were
likely public accommodations covered by the ADA. I think that attempts to
rigorously enforce general accessibility, whether through litigation or
criminal proceedings, will give accessibility a bad name and hinder efforts
to make the Web a better place. A better idea is to vote with your feet,
and to encourage others to do the same. Organize boycotts and awards. I
use Lynx as my primary browser, and I simply refuse to visit sites that
can't be seen with Lynx. It acts as an excellent bozo filter; generally,
if it doesn't work in Lynx, the content really isn't that interesting
anyway.
-Chris
Christopher R. Maden, Solutions Architect
Yomu: URL:http://www.yomu.com/
One Embarcadero Center, Ste. 2405
San Francisco, CA 94111
CM:: "I think that attempts to rigorously enforce general accessibility,
whether through litigation or criminal proceedings, will give
accessibility a bad name and hinder efforts to make the Web a better
place."
WL: Several decades ago a couple of authors had the effect of testing
whether their passions *needed* "enforcement" or could happen through
persuasion/education: Rachel Carson and Ralph Nader. Until the "2X4"
approach ensued the efforts were essentially futile. Substitute
"environmentalism" and "auto safety" for "accessibility" in the argument
and see what ensues. Perhaps their success in creating huge
bureaucracies and "government intervention" gave these fields a "bad
name" but cars are safer and less poison abounds, IMHO. "Voting with
your feet" is just as often an excuse for continued sociopathic
behaviour as it is an effective means of effecting significant change.
In a society that still uses "blind" as a pejorative, we shouldn't have
to wait another millenium for people to "get it" and the Web is as
public as the airspace and waterways. Anarchy is a nice idea but at the
moment there is some possibility of using enforcement for education,
distasteful as the prospect may be. "Market forces" totally unregulated
by "government (of the people) interference" might very well be a better
choice when those in charge think deaf people are stupid and people in
wheel chairs are "confined" to them. While "educating" everyone
otherwise is all well and good, unless you must go stand in the corner
when you're "bad", you will keep on throwing spitballs when the
teacher's back is turned.
As to the "Enforcement *can't* work - my philosophical disagreement with
it is moot": without "enforcement" we'd still have a society in which
women and people of color couldn't vote and gay men would have to
pretend they were entirely butch.
Even if I can't expect the protocols for posting stuff on the Web don't
ever get to the point where they preclude inaccessible materials'
inclusion, I can sure "vote with my vote" to get people in place who
make it likelier. And, yes, this will include *some* "government
interference" because WE are the government.
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
No, I haven't. I assume your point is that it's now fairly easy, at least
in public buildings, thanks to the ADA. If not, then I'm not sure I
understand.
But I feel that there is a fundamental difference between the physical
world and the Internet which radically changes the legal game in ways that
make the bathroom metaphor break down.
For starters, there's the matter of jurisdiction. A building in San
Francisco is unquestionably in the jurisdiction of the City and County of
San Francisco, the State of California, and the USA. If the building's
management finds the ADA onerous, they may complain, they may drag their
heels, but they'll have to comply eventually because they can't just move
the building management concern out of the affected jurisdiction. But what
jurisdiction is, say, canada.com in? The domain is adminstered by Network
Solutions, Inc., a US entity, but the contact address for the domain is in
Ontario, with network service through AT&amp;T of Canada. If their Web site
isn't compliant when a US user tries to use it, who enforces the
guidelines? For that matter, whose guidelines are used? Now consider the
case of a large company, say Microsoft, who has the facilities to simply
move their Web services offshore (say, to HavenCo). Whose jurisdiction are
they in then?
Then there's the matter of violation detection. In meatspace, there are
building codes and regular inspections; the buildings in a city can be
enumerated and visited sequentially. Even assuming that the WACG are
adopted globally, it's trivial to create a page that passes any
computer-driven test of the page without actually being accessible. No
government has the resources to monitor the entire Internet manually. So
it'll be left to individuals with standing to pursue enforcement, whether
by litigation or by pushing for prosecution. In these cases, I can't see
how the resources exist to pursue multiple instances of what would likely
be lengthy trials if the defendants were stubborn in the slightest. Add to
that the fact that many Web sites undergo complete redesigns, starting from
scratch, and enforcement becomes next to impossible. Only an organization
with a real commitment to accessible content can sustain accessibility
through these redesigns.
Which brings me to my final point: human nature. People really do not like
being told what to do. With a gun pointed at their head (which is what any
law not completely irrelevant comes down to), they will do as they are
told. But if detection, jurisdiction, and enforcement are that difficult,
who holds the gun and where does it point? Making threats which will, in
most cases, amount to a bluff, will only irritate content
creators. Education will produce content creators that understand the
tangible benefits of accessibility; as JM Straczynski wrote, "The universe
is composed of matter, energy, and enlightened self-interest." I
appreciate the work that's going into accessibility education, by the W3C
and others. I think that the work on legislation is counterproductive,
though, and that adding those energies to the education effort instead
would have a greatly increased benefit.
One thing that's become clearer and clearer to me is that the curb cut
metaphor cuts quite deep; navigational tools for people with limited vision
or mobility limitations make for more effective computer use by everyone,
and information design theory for people with cognitive challenges creates
information more effectively consumed by everyone. This is the message
that really needs to get out.
-Chris
Christopher R. Maden, Solutions Architect
Yomu: URL:http://www.yomu.com/
One Embarcadero Center, Ste. 2405
San Francisco, CA 94111
bathrooms that are ada compliant propperly built are still hard to find in
some places but without the standards for construction they would be even
harder to find. You'd be surprised at what a law in this country can do to
effect the way others do business with us. The law however only effects
entities that serv the public in the us and those who do business with those
entities. In effect, it goes like this. you meet our requirements no
matter where we are and we pour billions of dollars worth of commerce your
way. non compliance means no business. There is lots of president for
this.
Hands-On Technolog(eye)s
ftp://poehlman.clark.net
voice 301-949-7599
end sig.
CM:: "Education will produce content creators that understand the
tangible benefits of accessibility...I think that the work on
legislation is counterproductive"
WL: Work on legislation has produced 100X the effect on "education" in
these matters than all the other press releases, guideline
announcements, plenary speeches, etc. combined. The effect on MicroSoft
of Massachusetts' refusal to buy products a few years back was followed
closely (according to MS, coincidentally rather than as a result of g )
by major steps towards improved accessibility of their products. The
same thing is happening due to Section 508. As to the impossibility of
enforcement - so what? If the feds won't buy Web services from companies
that don't produce compliant sites, the companies will trumpet their
conformance. If ADA is invoked at any level it's more significant that
compliance increases, not that prosecutions result.
Legislative/regulatory efforts are educational. It's a shame that Chris
doesn't feel a part of the "government", but some of us do and hold that
unless these entities provide guidance in these matters the results will
be meager from other means of communicating any of these issues.
The metaphor of curb cuts will be remarked upon by media much more
prominently after legislative notoriety calls it to their attention
better than a gaggle of press releases from some obscure standards
setting consortium. As Chris Maden says "This is the message that really
needs to get out."
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
