There's been objections to various checkpoints on the basis of various
types of hardships: e.g. time and diffculty to implement, danger to
intellectual property, conflict with artistic visions. What I'll call
"considerations X"
These are all legitimate concerns.
But I bet we can come up with these problems for every single
guideline. For example, there are objections to textual equivalents. A
few years ago I wrote Scott Adams asking for textual equivalents to his on
line Dilbert comics. He refused on intellectual property grounds: he felt
it would make it too easy for people to make illegal copies of the
dialog. Similarly, a store may want to print sale prices as graphical
text, without textual equivalents, to foil robotic screenscrapers that go
hunting for competitive information. Or guideline 2, separate content
from presentation. Again, makes it easier for the screenscraping robotic
thieves, or people who want to take your content and make it look like
theirs (the next step after framed content). Or guideline 3, ease of
comphrehension. Constrains artistic freedom... James Joyce would never
have gotten past this guideline (the ghost of WCAG 1.0/checkpoint 3.1
returneth). Guideline 4, ease of navigation. I have heard web designers
say quite seriously that they want you to go bouncing around a lotta pages
to be exposed to max impulse buying stimuli. Guideline 5, device
independence... well, as soon as we see gamepad interfaces flying users
thru 3D interfaces (a la Neuromancer) there may well be economic resistance
to redoing the whole thing 2D discrete equivalents. As for Guideline 6,
graceful degradation: see guideline 5.
Now, we have to address these objections eventually. Plus the various
problems that others on this list have already brought up in the checkpoint
3.1 saga, and the intellectual property concerns about exposing internal
presentation rule bases.
But I thought we had agreed that for now, we'd just talk about
accessibility, like WCAG 1.0 said it was (cf. definitions of priorities 1,2,3).
Later, we can do one of the following
1. Just say we only defining accessibility, and not considering
considerations X
2. Make a blanket policy giving people dispensation to ignore checkpoints
in cases where there are legitimate consideration X concerns
3. Define "qualified" compliance that refers to consderations X
4. Make a detailed catalog of all the hardships that each consideration may
entail.
5. -- your suggestion here --
So, bottom line: are we going to focus on accessibilty now and package up
considerations X later?
Yes or No?
Len
Leonard R. Kasday, Ph.D.
Institute on Disabilities/UAP and Dept. of Electrical Engineering at Temple
University
(215) 204-2247 (voice) (800) 750-7428 (TTY)
Chair, W3C Web Accessibility Initiative Evaluation and Repair Tools Group
The WAVE web page accessibility evaluation assistant:
OK I'm a newcomer to this forum, and am missing out on the background
to your question, so feel free to ignore me.
But I went through AERT (as published at URL:http://www.w3.org/TR/AERT )
just a few hours ago with a view to posting here, and planning the next
level of accessibility checking for Site Valet. On several points, it
seems that AERT is - or could be - unnecessarily restrictive, in that
it condemns a legitimate but often-abused technique. I'll post my
comments soon, and include some examples.
As to your question: it seems to me that accessibility cannot be
well-served by antagonising authors. This argues for always taking
Consideration X seriously, and and accommodating it wherever reasonable
(I think some of the more extreme examples you suggested fall down on
the reasonableness test).
Perhaps it would be helpful to distinguish different types of case
where Consideration X may arise. I'm particularly concerned that
accessibility tools shouldn't be so restrictive as to be
marginalised in cases where authors are making an informed choice.
* Education - the author has no idea that a construct is a problem.
Guidelines and software tools have an important role.
* Laziness and stupidity - the author can't be bothered.
Not too much anyone can do - short of legislation.
* Diplomatic considerations - "don't tell us how to do it".
I mention this because your reference to Scott Adams seems
rather ironic: his reaction is very much the kind of thing
he is famous for lampooning!
* Choice - the author sees a good reason to use a construct that AERT
warns against, and that if used well will not present a problem.
We should avoid making the "Accessibility" choice seem
unreasonable or unduly restrictive.
Sorry, I'm rambling - perhaps someone can give me a URL for a past
thread where this has all been discussed to death before?
Nick Kew
Nick and all...
Sorry, I sent this to the wrong list. Please pursue on the guideline list,
w3c-wai-gl@w3.org where I'm posting a (slightly edited) version...
I just want to make a brief reply to what Nick said though. I definitely do
want to take consideration X seriously. That's what I was trying to
say. The question has to do with the process we're following in the
guideline group. Some people have objected to accessibility guidelines
because some authors will object some of the time. I'm trying to say that
we don't throw out the guideline just because there are objections in some
circumstances. The question is what process we follow in the guidelines
group to address considerations X. Right now it's kind of ad hoc. Anyway,
I'm continuing this in the guidelines list.
Len
Leonard R. Kasday, Ph.D.
Institute on Disabilities/UAP and Dept. of Electrical Engineering at Temple
University
(215) 204-2247 (voice) (800) 750-7428 (TTY)
Chair, W3C Web Accessibility Initiative Evaluation and Repair Tools Group
The WAVE web page accessibility evaluation assistant:
