I wrote to AOL using its e-mail address listed on its accessibility web
page
(AOLAccessibility@aol.com)
and received the bounced message below. Apparently, AOL access is not
functioning either as an e-mail address or as a company concept.
Its new media player does not have a means to control volume that is
accessible to the blind. it is controlled using a slide bar and mouse
only.
I do know that the aolaccessibility@aol.com address is still functioning. I
don't know why your message bounced, but I know from my contact at AOL that
they are aware of the issue that you raise and I'm cc'ing them on this
message so they can contact you directly.
I dont know about the email address and if AOL is aware of the issue and
is working on it or not... I am taking your word for it.
Keyboard and screen reader control of embedded media players is uniformly
poor, and this version of the aol media player is no exception. The
Quicktime player, when embedded will allow some control of the media player
controls (volume, next/previous song, etc.), but no embedded player gives
the same level of control as the standalone version of the same player.
Why not? It is not good enough to say dont worry about it because that is
the way they all are (inaccessible). And Kelly is trying to alert AOL of
IT'S inaccessible embedded media player. What you wrote here gives the
feeling that since noone has attempted to fix the problem, it is ok to be
inaccessible until one (or more) comes along that is accessible. This way
of thinking (whether or not you meant it that way) is one reason most of
the web is still inaccessible and businesses not moving to rectify it. If
everyone else is not accessible, then why should I bother until I am in
the minority. And with the majority thinking that way, accessiblity will
not be an important issue with them.
I know AOL will be interested in hearing your observations and wishes, but
you might also want to raise the issue with the radio station that is using
the player and ask that they provide a link to open the stream in a
standalone player.
Very good point!
I agree that this is an issue that should be addressed, and the fact that
other embedded players doesn't provide justification for the
inaccessibility
of the media player, but I don't think that a blanket dismissal of AOL's
accessibility efforts is appropriate.
I have a problem here.... dissmissal no, but if it is inaccessible on one
thing... it is STILL inaccessible.
-Steve
I'm not sure where you're reading me stating that this is a non-issue that
shouldn't be worried about. In fact, I state the exact opposite a couple of
paragraphs down. I wrote, "the fact that other embedded players doesn't
provide justification for the inaccessibility of the media player".
Kelly is welcome to alert AOL, and he should do so. He has brought up many
excellent points about access issues that I have seen.
The feeling you describe is not what I was trying to convey. You're
applying a bias to my words that is not supported by the actual words I
wrote.
Agreed. That mindset, which neither I nor the my contacts at AOL hold, does
impede progress. In any large organization you are bound to have people
that are at either end of the spectrum.
I agree that this is an issue that should be addressed, and the fact
that other embedded players doesn't provide justification for the
inaccessibility of the media player, but I don't think that
a blanket
dismissal of AOL's accessibility efforts is appropriate.
The player is not accessible and there is no good justification. However,
AOL does a lot more than provide a version of the WinAMP player that is
embedded in Web pages. To state that "AOL access is not functioning...as a
company concept" is unnecessarily inflammatory and doesn't accurately
reflect AOL's ongoing work addressing accessibility in its products.
Andrew
Andrew Kirkpatrick
Project Manager, WGBH National Center for Accessible Media
125 Western Avenue
Boston, MA 02134
617.300.4420
Andrew Kirkpatrick said:
Ok, I am not picking on Mr. Kirkpatrick or trying to start a flame. I am
making a point to all to watch what they say in a public forum where
businesses can use the words (albeit out of context maybe) by accessiblity
advocates against their (our) cause. Here is an example of what I mean:
Me (a made up lawyer for a made up company who is going to court to fight
an accessiblity issue that they dont want to be bothered with): I call Mr.
Kirkpatrick to the stand.
Me: Mr. Kirkpatrick are you a member of WAI and an established expert in
web accessibility?
Mr. Kirkpatrick: yes
Me: Mr. Kirkpatrick did you say this (refer to the previous message about
all embedded media players)
Mr. Kirkpatrick: but...
Me: Yes or no please.
Mr. Kirkpatrick: Yes
Me: Was this the exact statement of everything in the paragraph? Yes or No?
Mr. Kirkpatrick: Yes
Me: Thank You
Me: (to the court) I rest my case
Is this cheesy? yes. But it is done and done very well to get their point
accross. It makes it look like WAI agrees with their side. Now I, being
in the Washington DC area, have seen this tack employed far too often.
Andrew, I know you did not intend it to be read like that. And I am
truly sorry that your message was the first that I saw since I took an
active interest advocating the web accessiblity issue. I am just doing a
service to all whose job it is to advocate web accessibility. It is
definately not personal and I look forward to working with you and
everyone on this list to make the web accessible to ALL!
-Steve
This exchange between me and a lawyer who is trying to use one sentence out
of several in an email assumes that the lawyer on the other side is
completely incompetent.
It is true that most embedded media players are largely inaccessible to
keyboard and screen reader users, and I would be dishonest to say anything
else. Part of the entire message is that this is no excuse. I wrote that
at the outset, and a qualified plaintiff's attorney would draw that out if I
was forced to answer a misleading question with a yes or no
answer.
AWK
