How do we ensure that adults with learning difficulties have opportunities to make use of the web and improve their literacy?
Click here to read on: http://www.signbrowser.org.uk/ld+web.html
This is a short essay, please could a few interested members read it and comment.
thanks
jonathan chetwynd
IT teacher (LD)
jc@signbrowser.org.uk
Does anyone know Kai Gradert?
A Kai web authoring tool could enable learning difficulty creativity on the web.
I've been an admirer of Kai products for a while.
Superb interfaces, and InkLink is yet another.
jonathan chetwynd
IT teacher (LD)
jc@signbrowser.org.uk
Please could someone tell me how to distinguish by name the 2 types of search engine
the one you type a query in, the other you select keywords.
I am in the process of redisigning our homepage.
and choosing definitions for this:
ours is the second type.
jonathan chetwynd
IT teacher (LD)
jc@signbrowser.org.uk
For something where you give it a name and it goes and finds you a list of
links, I use the term "search engine". This is how I think of Google.
For a site where I get a list of choices that leads to a list of choices that
eventually leads to sites I use the term "portal". This is how I think of
Yahoo (although Yahoo's site also included a search engine last time I
looked).
cheers
Chaals
Please could someone tell me how to distinguish by name the 2 types of search engine
the one you type a query in, the other you select keywords.
I am in the process of redisigning our homepage.
and choosing definitions for this:
ours is the second type.
jonathan chetwynd
IT teacher (LD)
jc@signbrowser.org.uk
Location: 21 Mitchell street FOOTSCRAY Vic 3011, Australia
(or W3C INRIA, Route des Lucioles, BP 93, 06902 Sophia Antipolis Cedex, France)
Search Engine strategy is key to any web site. You have two types of
submission - Directories and Search Engines
Directories are human-indexed and so the meta data is very important. You
can input your data into these listings. Items like Category, site title,
and site description. Yahoo! and Looksmart are the two most important
directories. Search engines are computer indexed like google. All the
major search engines have placement fees for registration and this will have
you placed right away.
In addition, here are some good links
1.Create your Meta Tags here
2. http://searchenginewatch.com/
3. http://www.searchengineforums.com http://www.searchengineforums.com/
I agree with Charles' distinction, but would also like to bring up a couple of related
issues. If you'll recall the "Visualisation rather than text" thread back in October,
Brian Kelly brought up a site called The WebBrain which provides sort of a hybrid between
the search engine and portal. There's a new WebBrain 2.0 Beta that's just been
announced this week, so the site should be revisited:
Although I won't be able to attend CSUN this year, I will be going to Infonortics' Search
Engine meeting in Boston April 8-10. Please visit their website, and contact me if you
are planning to attend, or wants me to raise specific issues:
Regarding WebBrain, I've been working with the Personal Brain product rather intensely for
several months now, and it's helped me in contributing to some website redesign projects
(the tool can spider an existing site and help you gather links by audience) as well as
project/time management (I've developed a Brain where "Today" is the central thought).
Since The Brain Technologies company is located in Santa Monica, next week's CSUN
conference would be an ideal opportunity for some of you to meet with them in person and
give some feedback on how The Brain products could be part of assistive technology
solutions. In particular, I believe that:
1) The Brain could be especially helpful for visually-impaired to manage their
bookmark/favorites
2) The Brain could be part of a solution for people with certain types and degrees of
cognitive impairments, although individual thoughts would need to be associated with
images/symbols and it would likely need to be integrated with some sort of calendaring
program that bring up a reminder (launch a thought at a scheduled time or guide someone
through a multi-step process). With its associative user interface, the Brain can be used
to model the way a person thinks about and interacts with the world, and properly designed
Brains may be able to significantly reduce the cognitive load of finding documents or
links. The following paragraph are comments that the developer (Harlan Hugh) gave during
an interview; for the complete article, visit Steve Johnson's "Tomorrow's Desktop" article
at: http://www.feedmag.com/invent/interface.html
"When I sit down at my computer (or anyone else's), I want to see a useful
representation of everything inmy life. The fundamental difference is about
focusing on the connections between information instead of the separations. All
my information should be connected in a single interface?e-mail, Web content,
contacts, documents, and everything. I don't want to use different tools for
related information just because it's stored in a different place. For instance,
the way we perceive email as being separate from other data is an artifact of
building interfaces that expose too much of what's going on 'under the hood.'
The interface should distinguish information based on its content and not its
source. Taking this a step further, I'm looking forward to a world where the
whole concept of 'e-mail'?a special mode of operation where everything is
viewed based on discrete transactions?is replaced by a much more powerful way of
viewing and sharing connected information in context. Your screen should not
look like a bunch of pretty buttons that you use to order your computer from one
task to the next. Instead it should be a dynamic representation and experience
of everything that's important to you. I think The Brain demonstrates the
beginnings of realizing this vision."
Anyone who would like to work with me to help arrange a meeting for The Brain at CSUN is
encouraged to reply.
Thanks,
Karl
I'd be very keen to see a graphical version of The Brain, and endeavour to
make a visit, if you'll go ahead.
Small graphics load fast and the brain, reads them far faster than words,
millions of years study.
The topics have a relation to contents that words cannot emulate.
You'll see graphics and recognise them far faster than you can name them
here:
please visit our directory/portal for adults with a learning difficulty:
unfortunately our java drive thru with links has been down a while, it does
continue to work offline, just cannot find the time to get it working online
again.....
jonathan chetwynd
IT teacher (LD)
j.chetwynd@btinternet.com
