BBC Radio 4 is running an article on web site accessibility as I write
this.
The web page backing the article is at:
and the real audio should be at:
I don't have Real Audio tools on Linux to verify this.
It's about the National Library for the Blind's web site awards, but
the audio should cover the lack of difficulty of creating accessible
sites, as well; I missed the start, so I'll have to listen to the
audio from Windows to get the whole item. I can't find a transcript.
Fortunately they haven't used the random serial numbers in their content
management system, so it is possible to preeict the long term name for
this page (in some cases one has to wait for the next week, before the
archive name is assigned and then search on content). The archive name
seems to be:
The archive name for the audio is almost certainly:
See also http://www.bbc.co.uk/radio4/factual/intouch.shtml ,
the program's front page. There's a link entitled "text only"
(white, on a white background - I saw it as the page was coming
through my slow modem!) at .. Oh, it's not the program, it's a link to
betsie. Ugh.
It was only a short article forming part of their weekly program
"for and with" the visually impaired. They mention the Web from
time to time.
I heard it all (except where I was distracted by getting my supper).
Only 2 (of IIRC 10) judges were visually impaired; both the two were
using Jaws. Where does that leave the majority of blind people who
couldn't hope to afford such top-end kit, or who just don't want to
deal with a virus-ridden operating system and mandatory GUI?
Nick Kew
has anyone looked at the 6 winning websites:
I can't imagine how
got shortlisted let alone won anything.
it's a great service and in some parts not badly executed but IMO doesn't
deserve an award.
it forces the screenreader to use the text only link, and as if that weren't
bad enough it then restricts you to searching only for audio or large print
books.
having the option to search audio or large print would be very handy but
restricting people to only these options in unacceptable.
Adrian Higginbotham,
Learning Technology Advisor (disability)
Email A.Higginbotham@salford.ac.uk
ODL,
Technology House,
Lissadel Street, Salford M6 6AP.
I so hate this. I want to praise these awards for increasing the
awareness of accessibility (which they are). But they seem to be doing
*such* a crap job at it.
I had a very brief look through the winners, let me see...
* The British Museum Compass
First page has a meta refresh. Beyond that, better than most.
* Dial UK
As scripting was disabled in my browser, I got no style at first
due to their poor client-side browser sniffing. Otherwise good for
accessibility (if a little verbose on the alt text).
* Guardian Unlimited
I'm sorry? How on earth did this win an award for accessibility?
Just look at it in Lynx - http://tinyurl.com/3hu1 ! Although the
content is quite good, the surrounding design is very poor.
I just don't know how this could win over BBC News
(http://news.bbc.co.uk) or Ananova (http://www.ananova.com/news/).
Madness.
* The Local Heritage Initiative
Very good.
* National Maritime Museum
Hrm. Ok-ish. Could be better (and why does the text-only version's
link to the graphical version say "HTML version"...?)
* Whichbook
Whilst they have made clear attempts at making their site more
accessible, it's a shame some people won't be able to get into the
site in the first place - http://tinyurl.com/3hu5.
I really fail to understand how these awards have been worked out.
There are many, many more deserving sites than the few that have won
them. Very odd indeed.
But I have to say well done for the organizers for attempting
something like this, and to the BBC for covering the story.
Tom Gilder
wonder how many alternative browser users were on the selection committee?
Bob
ASCII Ribbon Campaign accessBob
NO HTML/PDF/RTF in e-mail accessys@smartnospam.net
NO MSWord docs in e-mail Access Systems, engineers
NO attachments in e-mail, *LINUX powered* access is a civil right
THIS message and any attachments are CONFIDENTIAL and may be
privileged. They are intended ONLY for the individual or entity named
above. If you are not the intended recipient, Please notify the sender as
soon as possible. Please DO NOT READ, COPY, USE, or DISCLOSE this
communication to others and DELETE it from your computer systems. Thanks
