Tom and all,
Date: Fri, 7 Mar 1997 10:27:29 -0500
From: dpkemp@missi.ncsc.mil (David P. Kemp)
Perhaps you should check with RSADSI to see if they still regard RC4 as
an "unpublished work", despite the fact that it leaked out some time ago.
I believe the answer is "yes", so anyone (at least in the US) who
wants to ship an "RC4-compatible" cipher should have lawyers ready.
(The name "RC4" is probably trademarked, regardless of the secrecy
of that algorithm.)
From Schneier, p. 398: "The name is trademarked, so anyone who writes his
own code has to call it something else....RSA Data Security, Inc. will almost
certainly sue anyone who uses unlicensed RC4 in a commercial product.
They probably won't win, but they will certainly make it cheaper for a company
to license than fight."
RC4 appears to be a strong cipher. The TLS protocol should clearly
not mandate the use of proprietary ciphers, but neither should it
prohibit their use.
I agree with this evaluation. It should be included.
2 Mount Royal Avenue http://www.gradient.com
Marlborough, MA 01752
Jeffrey A. Williams
DIR. Internet Network Eng/SR. Java Development Eng.
Information Eng. Group.
Phone :913-294-2375 (temporary)
E-Mail jwkckid1@ix.netcom.com
From: Christopher Allen ChristopherA@consensus.com
The next draft of the TLS 1.0 protocol has been submitted to the
internet-drafts site.
If you can't wait, a copy is at
http://www.consensus.com/ietf-tls/tls-protocol-01.txt .
Chris,
I noticed that the draft still contains references to ciphersuites
including the unpublished algorithms RC2 and RC4. Of course an
Internet-Draft is just that, a draft, and can contain anything.
But if we are to have a document that will allow us to move forward
towards a Proposed Standard RFC, this will have to be fixed in
another iteration of the draft, before we can go to Last Call.
I believe RC2 is still a trade secret, but RC4 was leaked to the Cypherpunks
list in September, '94. The algorithm is described in Chapter 17 of Bruce
Schneier's "Applied Cryptography", 2ed.
2 Mount Royal Avenue http://www.gradient.com
Marlborough, MA 01752
Yes, of course it is. And "alleged RC4" is also posted on Ron Rivest's
the statement "There is no good reference to these [RC2, RC4] as they
are unpublished works" in the SSL specification. This statement is still
included in the current TLS draft -01.
Perhaps you should check with RSADSI to see if they still regard RC4 as
an "unpublished work", despite the fact that it leaked out some time ago.
Why don't we add some Blowfish CipherSuites?
It's a published (and public domain!) algorithim.
Eric Murray ericm@lne.com ericm@motorcycle.com
Network security and encryption consulting: www.lne.com/ericm/resume.html
PGP keyid:E03F65E5 fingerprint:50 B0 A2 4C 7D 86 FC 03 92 E8 AC E6 7E 27 29 AF
Good idea. And Blowfish was mentioned the last time this came up,
several months ago.
The point of removing RC2 and RC4 from the TLS base document is *not*
to prevent their use with TLS, it is to restructure the IETF TLS
standard as a core document plus additional ciphersuite-specific
documents. This follows the IPSEC example of generic AH/ESP documents
supplemented by additional transform-specific documents. I thought
the working group had reached consensus on a modular document structure,
and am a bit disappointed that the present draft does not reflect that
consensus.
The TLS base document should specify mandatory-to-implement algorithms
to promote interoperability. Currently the DES/3DES ciphersuites
fill that role, but Blowfish or another published and freely-available
algorithm might conceivably be suitable as the interoperable
baseline.
TLS "transform" documents could be written to specify the use of many
other ciphersuites, published or proprietary, including RC2, RC4,
Blowfish, SAFER, Fortezza(R), etc. This makes it easier to add
future ciphersuites to TLS without having to re-do the base document
every time.
Glad to see the draft available!!
I believe the answer is "yes", so anyone (at least in the US) who
wants to ship an "RC4-compatible" cipher should have lawyers ready.
(The name "RC4" is probably trademarked, regardless of the secrecy
of that algorithm.)
Now, is this foolishness? Trying to claim Trade Secret protection
for something that's clearly not a secret? Yes. But it's lawyers
and judges which have to agree on that, not mere mortals. I don't
know that the IETF wants to fund those lawyers. If it does, that'd
be very good news.
- Dave
Just because it is published in a book (or on a mailing list) does not mean
it is acceptable to use in a standards track RFC. I think the question is,
"which algorithms can we have in this draft and still move it towards
standards track?
Also, Please note Chris' statement that the TLS mailing list is moving from
"ietf-tls@w3.org" to "ietf-tls@consensus.com".
--Paul Hoffman, Director
--Internet Mail Consortium
I spoke to Jeff Schiller (area director for security), and
we think that the reference to Schneier is sufficient
for the TLS spec. Having the RC4 ciphersuite is important,
I think, because of its widespread use in SSL today.
Without a similar description of RC2, it isn't appropriate
to include the ciphersuite.
- Win Treese
FYI ...
RFC2026, especially section 7.1 and section 10 provides guidelines for how to
incorporate external specifications into standards track documents. Section
7.1.2 says if the owners of RC2 and RC4 aren't willing to make these "widely
and readibly available, the IESG may request that it be published as an
Informational RFC". Section 10 has language that says that patented
technology can be incorporated, provided the owners will provide a
license under general and nondiscriminatory terms.
I'll leave to the IESG to determine if both RC2 and RC4 meet these tests.
-mre
Peter Gutmann posted an article to sci.crypt on Feb 11 1996 describing
RC2. Eric Young implemented his RC2 library from that article.
See:
crypto/rc2/rrc2.doc
doc/rc2.doc
from the SSLeay distribution.
From Schneier, p. 398: "The name is trademarked, so anyone who writes his
own code has to call it something else....RSA Data Security, Inc. will almost
certainly sue anyone who uses unlicensed RC4 in a commercial product.
They probably won't win, but they will certainly make it cheaper for a company
to license than fight."
RC4 appears to be a strong cipher. The TLS protocol should clearly
not mandate the use of proprietary ciphers, but neither should it
prohibit their use.
2 Mount Royal Avenue http://www.gradient.com
Marlborough, MA 01752
The language in RFC2026 stems from an ANSI requirement for "standards
providers" (of which IETF is one) so that the incorporation of intellectual
property into a standard doesn't impose an unreasonable barrier to the
standard's implemention.
Stephen Satchell, Satchell Evaluations
Opinions expressed are my own PERSONAL opinions.
Not leaked. Reverse engineered. And RC2 was also reverse engineered
some months ago.
You should only break rules of style if you can | Tom Weinstein
coherently explain what you gain by so doing. | tomw@netscape.com
I'd like to see some Blowfish cipher suites, but I'm against adding
anything to the list until it's turned over to the IANA. I'd rather
see any energy focused in that direction.
You should only break rules of style if you can | Tom Weinstein
coherently explain what you gain by so doing. | tomw@netscape.com
I agree, although I'd like to see at least RC4 (or alleged-RC4)
included in the mandatory list. I think the Kerberos work is a
perfect example of how cipher suites can be defined in seperate
documents.
You should only break rules of style if you can | Tom Weinstein
coherently explain what you gain by so doing. | tomw@netscape.com
Does [HMAC] (p. 14) corresponds to [KRAW] (p. 63)? There is not [HMAC]
in the bibliography.
Does this reference corresponds to the RFC 2104 "HMAC: Keyed-Hashing for
Message Authentication", also by Hugo Krawczyk? If so, I think it's a
better reference.
Luis Saiz
Yes; the omission of [HMAC] was an error in the preparation which has been
rectified. [KRAW] will be removed. Also, a reference to the PKIX draft will
be inserted, specifing it as the guiding authorithy on X.509 certificate
profiles.
- Tim
Tim Dierks - timd@consensus.com - www.consensus.com
Software Haruspex - Consensus Development
Developer of SSL Plus: SSL 3.0 Integration Suite
Ref: Your note of Mon, 10 Mar 1997 19:10:35 +0100 (attached)
Luis is right. The official reference to HMAC is rfc 2104 (it has three
authors: Krawczyk, Bellare and Canetti).
Hugo
