re http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2003Aug/0138.html
ACTION 20030808#6 path to draft a sentence for alternative reification \
text to go into schema.
Pat, any progress on this? We need something to wrap up
cheers,
Dan
5.3 Reification Vocabulary
The original RDF Model and Syntax Specification [ RDFMS ] defined a
vocabulary for describing RDF statements without stating them. The
current RDF specification does not assign a normative formal
semantics to this vocabulary, but describes an intended meaning which
is described here. An informal introduction to the reification
vocabulary, with examples, may be found in the RDF Primer [
RDF-PRIMER ].
5.3.1 rdf:Statement
rdf:Statement is an instance of rdfs:Class. It is intended to
represent the class of RDF statements. An RDF statement is the
statement made by a token of an RDF triple in a published document.
The subject of an RDF statement is the instance of rdfs:Resource
identified by the subject of the triple. The predicate of an RDF
statement is the instance of rdf:Property identified by the predicate
of the triple. The object of an RDF statement is the instance of
rdfs:Resource identified by the object of the triple.
rdf:Statement is the domain of the properties rdf:predicate,
rdf:subject and rdf:object . Different individual rdf:Statement
instances may have the same values for their rdf:predicate,
rdf:subject and rdf:object properties.
5.3.2 rdf:subject
rdf:subject is an instance of rdf:Property that is used to state the
subject of a statement.
A triple of the form:
S rdf:subject R
states that S is an instance of rdf:Statement and that the subject of S is R.
The rdfs:domain of rdf:subject is rdf:Statement . The rdfs:range of
rdf:subject is rdfs:Resource.
5.3.3 rdf:predicate
rdf:predicate is an instance of rdf:Property that is used to state
the predicate of a statement.
A triple of the form:
S rdf:predicate P
states that S is an instance of rdf:Statement , that P is an instance
of rdf:Property and that the predicate of S is P.
The rdfs:domain of rdf:predicate is rdf:Statement and the rdfs:range
is rdf:Property.
5.3.4 rdf:object
rdf:object is an instance of rdf:Property that is used to state the
object of a statement.
A triple of the form:
S rdf:object O
states that S is an instance of rdf:Statement and that the object of S is O.
The rdfs:domain of rdf:object is rdf:Statement. The rdfs:range of
rdf:object is rdfs:Resource .
OK?? Pat
IHMC(850)434 8903 or (650)494 3973 home
40 South Alcaniz St.(850)202 4416 office
FL 32501(850)291 0667 cell
phayes@ihmc.us http://www.ihmc.us/users/phayes
I'm a bit concerned that some people (particularly those not familiar
with [RDFMS]) reading the above two sentences might get the impression
that [RDFMS] defined a normative formal semantics which the current RDF
specification has somehow removed. I think something along the lines of
the following might be more accurate:
"The original RDF Model and Syntax Specification [ RDFMS ] defined a
vocabulary for describing RDF statements without stating them. [ RDFMS ]
did not provide a formal semantics for this vocabulary, and the informal
definition that was provided was somewhat inconsistent [***or
"confused", or insert some other favorite mildly pejorative term
instead***]. The current RDF specification does not assign a normative
formal semantics to this vocabulary. However, an intended meaning of
this vocabulary (which generally clarifies the intent of the [ RDFMS ]
definition) is described here."
An informal introduction to the reification vocabulary, with
examples, may be found in the RDF Primer [ RDF-PRIMER ].
Pat, are you satisfied that the Primer does a reasonable job of
informally introducing the reification vocabulary, and is also
consistent with the text you've provided?
--Frank
Frank Manola The MITRE Corporation
202 Burlington Road, MS A345 Bedford, MA 01730-1420
