There are two references to presentation elements in the
page authoring guidelines, one reference has an "etcetra" in
it, which I think is bad idea. The second reference is
size="14",B,I,TT,FONT,BASEFONT,CENTER which leads me to wonder
whether anything is left out (size="14" is simply
an instance of a class of errors). I think this needs to
be clearer and I would also suggest describing the
alternative, using style sheets or not, following each
presentation element.
In addition, can someone send me the complete list of
presentation elements, I haven't searched the dtd
carefully, but are there any others than those listed
above?
+ Josh +
B, BASEFONT, BIG, CENTER, FONT, FRAME, FRAMESET, HR, I, IFRAME, IMG, PRE,
S, SMALL, STRIKE, SUB, SUP, TT, U.
Liam Quinn
Web Design Group Enhanced Designs, Web Site Development
I disagree HR is in the set. HR is a structural element to me, which I
can decorated in CSS and specialize using its class or title.
FRAME stuff is also special, and separated in their own DTD.
IMG ? you mean vs. OBJECT ? It's not presentation, and not even
deprecated (APPLET is).
Interesting enough, this doesn't match the strict vs. loose dtd.
(B, I, TT, BIG and SMALL are in strict, the others are only in loose)
Also important to list are all the deprecated presentational
attributes (background, link color, compact, align, etc)
I tried to give a complete list of presentational elements, knowing that
some in the list could be used structurally despite their inherent
presentational nature. HR can be used to mean START-OR-END-OF-SECTION, but
at its basic level it's just a "horizontal rule"--pure presentation. FRAME
can be used as a weak LINK REL="some relationship" element, but frames
were intended from the beginning as a way to carve up a windowed display
and that's how they're used by the vast majority of authors. I put IMG on
the list since its primary purpose is to provide a graphic; alternate text
for the IMG was clearly an afterthought from the start (unlike OBJECT).
For what it's worth, IMG was my last addition to the list, and the one I
thought about the most. But when people (and the WAI-GL Working Draft)
recommend ALT text like "XYZ Logo", it becomes clear just how
presentational IMG is.
A lot of presentational elements could have structural purposes if one
looks hard enough. SMALL makes a good DE-EMPHASIS element. I sometimes
use the I element, along with an appropriate LANG or CLASS attribute, where
HTML has no suitable structural element. STRIKE is useful in combination
with DEL since so few browsers support the latter. In the future these
could be replaced by SPAN or DIV plus style sheets, but there are still a
lot of old browsers out there that can be conveyed some (weak) structural
information through SMALL, I, B, and friends, but that are shut out by
style sheets.
Liam Quinn
Web Design Group Enhanced Designs, Web Site Development
Daniel's comment below that the B and I elements are not removed in the
HTML 4.0 strict dtd is important. I didn't realize this. But it means
if this point is kept in the WAI guideline it is at odds with the
HTML 4.0 guideline.
Josh Krieger
You really mean "WAI HTML guideline is at odds with the HTML spec".
I don't know the exact reason why B, I, TT, BIG and SMALL are still in
HTML4 strict.dtd while a bunch of others presentational attributes
have been deprecated (probably they were more widely used).
But one thing to realize is that strict dtd compliance and
accessibility guidelines cannot be readily related, without being
completely orthogonal either.
For instance, there are things deprecated in the strict DTD (like
ISINDEX, MENU, or some use of TYPE, or LANGUAGE as attributes) that,
if used, would not change the accessibility of a page.
Anyway, I want to go back to the Required status of the use of Markup
vs. CSS for presentation.
I think we need a finer granularity.
Right now, the guideline (1.1) says that not using B , I , etc as
well as CENTER , or BORDER or ALIGN attribute is Required.
How doing this makes it "impossible for one or more groups of users to
understand the page" ?
It should be Recommended.
Under the same section (1.1), we mention things like
converting text to images
alternative text file formats (such as PDF)
using proprietary extensions
Which are really of a different order or evilness.
Later on we talk about misusing markup, like BLOCKQUOTE for indent, H#
for big font, wrong nesting of headers, etc, which are of the same
vein, and also much worse than using B , or CENTER (or using HR
for that matters).
I think we need to revise Section 1 and 5 to make them more realistic
and accurate, and maybe converge them into one "Text and Style"
section.
