In section 10 of draft-ietf-http-v10-spec-01.txt , it says:
Proxies must be completely transparent regarding user agent
authentication. That is, they must forward the WWW-Authenticate and
Authorization headers untouched. HTTP/1.0 does not provide a means
for a client to be authenticated with a proxy.
I read this to imply that caching proxies may never cache responses to
requests with Authorization headers.
Is this really the intended meaning? It sounds like a wasteful
requirement to me.
I feel that passing along Authorization headers untouched is fine as a
default, but that there has to be some way to override this default.
A response message could contain a header to explicitly _allow_ a
proxy cache not to be transparent, e.g.
URI: http://shopping.com/food/vegetables/carrots.gif ;
unvary="authorization"
The `unvary' would tell the cache that the response does not vary if
the Authorization header varies, implying that no authentication is
done on http://shopping.com/food/vegetables/carrots.gif. This would
allow the proxy cache to act non-transparently, to serve future
requests for that picture from cache memory without ever contacting
the origin server.
Koen.
I think, that once we have the pragma no-cache, this should be applied to
every non-cacheable responses.
And the fact, that the no-cache pragma isn't applied, shall be a garantee,
that the result is cacheable.
Oops! If this is true, - is it, honorable collegaues in WG?
then in shttp draft this should be stated - as long, as any shttp
response isn't appropriate to cacheing, that a Pragma: no-cache
MUST BE applied in every response, which contain encapsulated shttp messages.
My point is: if the presence/absence of the no-cache pragma means non-cacheable/
cacheable status of the message, then it's very easy to handle in cacheing
proxies the whole question. Oherwise the cacheing proxy should know about every
extension, which may concern cacheability status.
The requirement for caches, that the whole cacheing proxy should be as simple
as possible for better performance, I can't imagine other considerations, which
can overrule my position.
And the WG's point in this question?
Andrew. (Endre Balint Nagy) bne@bne.ind.eunet.hu
Actually, it doesn't say that, but it should. I have added it to draft 02.
Anything that involves authentication in "current practice" also
implies exclusion of those not authenticated. Since the proxy cannot
duplicate the server's authorization capability, it must not deliver
the response to anyone but the client requesting it (and only for that
particular request), and therefore should never cache such responses.
....Roy T. Fielding Department of ICS, University of California, Irvine USA
Visiting Scholar, MIT/LCS + World-Wide Web Consortium
(fielding@w3.org) (fielding@ics.uci.edu)
