Finally, at last, there is a new version of the MT document at
Ive used DanC's 'set of triples' way of describing RDF graphs (with
all the horrid math in the appendix), I think Ive fixed all the known
bugs in the tables, and have put in guarded comments about datatypes
not being done yet (see esp. end of 1.2 ). It is still missing the
long-promised proofs of the lemmas, but I will graft those on rather
than keep it hanging around any longer.
Sorry this has taken so long. I will be unable to take part in
telecons until mid-January, and wont be reading much email either.
Happy holidays, and all.
Pat
IHMC(850)434 8903 home
40 South Alcaniz St.(850)202 4416 office
phayes@ai.uwf.edu
Good stuff... I did a quick review; I hope the
artifacts of using the #rdfig channel and the
scratchpad won't get in the way...
RDF Model Theory (draft) 2001-12-12, Pat Hayes
posted by dajobe at 2001-12-12 19:52
dajobe: as usual, I've checked it into CVS so you can see the
differences
dajobe: to previous drafts which were published at the same URL
DanC: issues: (a) datatypes. explicitly called out by the editor, but
could be linked to issues list
DanC: I'd like to see more motivation for the use of blank nodes. it
just says "seems more in keeping with [RDFMS]" which doesn't do our
extensive discussions justice.
DanC: I've been asked for more justification of this point in SWAD
meetings.
DanC: issue: "since such value spaces as integers cannot be fully
axiomatized in first-order logic.
DanC: " seems to appear out of nowhere. Delete it or explain it better.
DanC: issue: "Herbrand Lemma. Any RDF graph has a satisfying
interpretation.
DanC: " this needs discussion, as we discovered in a telcon a couple
weeks ago.
DanC: I think you can say false things in RDF. e.g. using
ont:disjointFrom
DanC: "tidying the resulting set" under 2.2 - editorial left-over.
DanC: "namespace entailment" - don't like this term. layered
entailment, vocabulary entailment, maybe. hmm...
DanC: RDFS reserved vocabulary - actually, there is a semantic
constraint for some of those other terms: isDefinedBy rdfs:subPropertyOf
seeAlso
Dan Connolly, W3C http://www.w3.org/People/Connolly/
OK, that version is now dated 14 December and has the following
changes, in response to Dan's comments below. I suggest that this
version be archived and announced to WebOnt, as per today's telecon
discussion. Or, if you like, I can tell them to get it from the above
URI, which should be stable enough to use.
I scanned the issue list but didn't see one that would characterize
it! (I get the impression that this has gotten bigger than any one of
our named issues.)
OK, point taken. I put in a few sentences and a pointer to the issues
list where one can track on into the discussions in the archives. If
you would prefer something different, or want to see other issues
addressed, say what or suggest a change.
(Might be helpful if you could expand on what it is that is worrying
people. I am at a bit of a loss here, in that this seems such an
obvious point that I have trouble following what kind of
justification people could possibly be asking for; its a bit like
finding people worried about the need to have feet on the ends of
ones legs.)
OK, deleted
Hmmm. The proof of the lemma is simple, and surely ont:
disjointFrom just isn't part of the RDF vocabulary, right? I think
the point is that the semantic restrictions associated with the ont:
vocabulary go beyond simple entailment.
Fixed.
OK, replaced with 'vocabulary entailment'
Oh damn. Rats. Then I will have to include all that vocabulary in
all those tables, just to say this piffling constraint. Grumble
grumble.
I reserve the right to put this off to the next draft.
Pat
IHMC(850)434 8903 home
40 South Alcaniz St.(850)202 4416 office
phayes@ai.uwf.edu
