see:
3.6 Graph Equality
(which uses both terms)
If I have two N-triple files of one line each
eg:a eg:b _:x .
and
eg:a eg:b _:y .
Do you think they are equal or unequal?
Those two files are clearly distinguishable, hence
they are not equal.
Personally, I would say they are equal as RDF graphs, and unequal as text
documents.
"as RDF graphs"... I'm not sure what you mean by that, formally.
I don't think you mean that N-triples file are RDF graphs.
I think you mean that there's a straightforward correspondence
from N-triples files to RDF graphs, and that the
two distinct N-triples files above correspond to the
same RDF graph.
Jeremy's talking about *syntactic* equality (ie, "X equals Y" means
"every expression involving X can be rewritten with Y substituted for it
and the expression's value is preserved"), not identity (X and Y can be
equal but not identical; if X and Y are identical then they're equal).
This terminology is used (in my experience) by some mathematicians but
not all; depends on the field and personal choice. In the sense it's
used it's ok (I think) so it comes down to choosing a terminology and
sticking to it. If this is going to cause wide-scale confusion it might
be better to revert to couching this in terms of "isomorphism" which is
a less overloaded term.
jan
Personally, I would say they are equal as RDF graphs, and unequal as text
documents.
"as RDF graphs"... I'm not sure what you mean by that, formally.
I don't think you mean that N-triples file are RDF graphs.
I think you mean that there's a straightforward correspondence
from N-triples files to RDF graphs, and that the
two distinct N-triples files above correspond to the
same RDF graph.
Hmm... I wasn't familiar with that idea before... I'll have
to think it over.
But my intuition says the difference between syntactic
equality and identity matters to the RDF spec.
For example, if X and Y are distinct graphs that
art syntactically equal, what's the cardinality
of the set {X, Y}? It's 2, right?
The model theory spec does stuff like putting
graphs into sets, and I think it matters what
the cardinality of the resulting set is;
if X and Y are the graphs arising from
the n-triples document jeremy gave as
an example, I think the model theory
spec depends on the cardinality of {X, Y} being 1.
But I'm not certain. It could be that it doesn't
matter.
Dan Connolly, W3C http://www.w3.org/People/Connolly/
It doesn't; it's akin to thinking about how many number 10s there are:
you can take a view, but it's irrelevant to the way you do arithmetic.
jan grant, ILRT, University of Bristol. http://www.ilrt.bris.ac.uk/
You're 100% certain that the RDF semantics document
is indifferent to the cardinality of {X, Y} above?
I'm not (yet) convinced.
Dan Connolly, W3C http://www.w3.org/People/Connolly/
Yes, absolutely.
jan grant, ILRT, University of Bristol. http://www.ilrt.bris.ac.uk/
Ceci n'est pas une pipe |
