First define disability.
Someone can be disAbled by a congenital defect, chronic illnesses or injury.
It could be any combination of, or even multiple, congenital defects, illnesses and/or injuries.
There are also debilitating side effects of medications.
A "non-reader" is not necessarily blind
- they may have had a TBI (traumatic brain injury) or have a Learning Disability.
Disabilities can effect fine and gross motor skills.
(Arthritis is a common fine motor complaint)
A Quadriplegic may use different assistive technologies, such as voice pilots, mouth tools or devices that follow eye movement.
Some people type with their toes!
IMO, before you can define Accessibility you must first define disability.
KPR,
LK
> First define disability.
Why?
I view that anyone should be able to access information, regardless of whether or not they have a "disability."
Your access shouldn't be _limited_ because you have a certain quality about you that other people don't have.
Regardless if we call that a "disability" or not, it should not interfere with your ability to access content on the Internet.
I think it's perfectly reasonable to define "accessibility" with having a strict definition of "disability" as long as your accessibility definition doesn't speak _only_ about access for people who fit that disability definition.
Kynn Bartlett mailto:kynn@hwg.org
President, HTML Writers Guild http://www.hwg.org/
AWARE Center Director http://aware.hwg.org/
> First define disability.
> IMO, before you can define Accessibility you must first define disability.
OK.
Here's my short definition:
"Disability is a design flaw in the environment."
Here's the long version, from a chapter in an upcoming book on web-based training:
"People are not "disabled."
A disability is a consequence of design flaws in the environment.
Some individuals, due to accident, illness, or heredity, have difficulties performing -- or cannot perform -- certain tasks, such as moving their legs, seeing, hearing, talking, grasping or lifting.
When these functional limitations are severe enough to adversely affect a person's performance, and the natural and human environments fail to accommodate their functional limitations, the individual is said to have a disability."
You take your pick.
If I were rewriting it, I would say something like this:
... ALL individuals, due to circumstance, accident, illness, or heredity, have difficulties performing -- or cannot perform -- certain tasks...
Alan
Alan Cantor
Cantor + Associates
Workplace Accommodation Consultants
New e-mail address: acantor@interlog.com
> OK.
> Here's my short definition:
> "Disability is a design flaw in the environment."
I like to tell people that if a blind person can't access the web page she's trying to use, the REASON is not _her_ disability, but the disability of the _web author_ who created the page.
That web author is "disabled" because he was _not able_ to make a correct web page.
Why should she suffer for _his_ problem or failing?
In no way is a user with a disability "disabled" on the web
-- the sites THEMSELVES have the disability inherent in their code by not being accessible!
We should identify the problem where it exists.
The problem is not that there's anything "wrong with" the user, it is a problem with the page author and his output!
Kynn Bartlett mailto:kynn@hwg.org
President, HTML Writers Guild http://www.hwg.org/
AWARE Center Director http://aware.hwg.org/
I should like to add that we do have to accept that the victorians probably had an insuperable task in trying to design and build a wheelchair for a quadraplegic that the individual could control themselves.
Today this is possible if not universal.
jay@peepo.com
Our site www.peepo.com is a drive thru.
When you see a link of interest, click on it.
Move the mouse to slow down.
It is a graphical aid to browsing the www.
We value your comments.
