Dear WAI Interest Group,
Another mainstream article on accessibility. From this months "first
person" column in civic.com "the magazine for it professionals in state and
local government". "Make the Internet Accessible for All" by Kathleen
Anderson. Subtitled Q Connecticut Webmaster calls for more "welcome''
sites. /Q I first saw this in print but, of course, there is an on-line
version at URL:
I like the article very much. I am sorry I did not offer a similar piece
before Kathleen took the initiative. In truth, she did a much better job
than I would have! I was disappoint that the article does not mention HWG
AWARE, Trace's world/web resources, nor the W3C WAI or WCAG. Bobby and the
W3C validator, however, are only a couple of clicks from the official State
of Connecticut (http://www.state.ct.us/) home page, and there is plenty of
information if one goes looking for it.
I hope Kathleen (and the other members of the ConneCT Management Advisory
Committee Web Site Accessibility Subcommittee) will not be too disappointed
about not achieving their goal Q to make ConneCT, Connecticut's Web Site,
the em first /em universally accessible state government Web site in the
country /Q (emphasis added). The official State of Maryland pages may not
offer detailed reference listings regarding universal design, but our pages
have been accessible (and still are) since they first went online in 1994!
Check out URLs:
choices if you try going to http://www.state.md.us/).
I wish I could take some credit for this fine state of affairs, but I
really can't! Sailor evolved from a text-only system, and still offers
toll-free (in Maryland) dial-up text-only Internet browsing. In general,
Maryland government has a good level of awareness and understanding (which
is something I do help with a little) of the needs and requirements of
persons with disabilities. This pretty much keeps universal design on the
drawing board, even with new projects. (Check out "eMaryland" at
accessible -- despite the fact that I had nothing to do with it!)
Full text of article follows.
Bruce Bailey
Maryland State Department of Education, Division of Rehabilitation Services
Make the Internet Accessible for All
By Kathleen Anderson
The Americans with Disabilities Act, signed into law in 1990, requires that government provide individuals with disabilities access to public places. If you take a walk around your state or local government complex, school or library, you'll see new ramps, wider doorways, new elevators and Braille signs where needed. All of these allow--even invite--everyone in.
As the Internet approaches its 30th birthday, we are rapidly making it a place of public accommodation. We are transacting business on the World Wide Web. Permit applications, license renewals, e-mail and requests for proposals. State and local governments that used to print all their publications on paper are publishing them on the Web. But if we are making these major transformations to the way we conduct business, and doing so with taxpayer money, we must make sure everyone can participate.
Our new place of business must not only be accessible, it must say, "Welcome."
Take a "walk" around your agency's Web site. But first, put your mouse away. Can you navigate your site without it? Some people can't use a mouse. People with limited or no physical mobility use a keyboard or voice input; those who are blind or visually impaired use a keyboard or voice input in combination with a text screen reader.
Try accessing your site with your browser's graphics turned off. Is your site still as effective and informative? Many of your visitors turn graphics off because of slow modem speeds or low-end processors in their PCs; other users do this because they are more interested in your content than your presentation.
A Web site that can't be navigated without a mouse, or is useless without the graphics or doesn't have enough information in text format, will lock people out of your place of business. I read an e-mail message a couple of years ago written by a woman whose husband was blind. She spoke about how, in the early days of the Internet, it was a wonderful place for her husband. It was all text-based and universally accessible. Now, it's a world of images, clicks, online forms, marquees, blinking text and music, all of which can be obstacles to accessibility.
I can hear Web designers and graphic artists saying, "But what about my photographs, logos and maps?" Making a Web site accessible does not have to stifle its artistic presentation or professional look. The design and presentation will not suffer if you follow one simple rule: Create your site with text-only pages first. When you are sure that it is complete and accessible, then add the images and other design touches. Your site then will be accessible to everyone.
Connecticut's policy is to ensure that people with hearing, visual and other disabilities have equal access to public information that is available on the Internet and the Web. We have followed that policy in designing and maintaining the Web site of the state comptroller, Nancy Wyman.
To implement that policy at the state government level, we have formed a work group focusing on Web site accessibility education and outreach to all state agencies and municipalities. The goal of the ConneCT Management Advisory Committee (CMAC) Web Site Accessibility Subcommittee (www.cmac.state.ct.us/access) is to make ConneCT, Connecticut's Web Site, the first universally accessible state government Web site in the country.
Don't get me wrong--I love the Internet. The opportunities it is giving government to improve the way we do things is tremendous. But we need to be planning our Web sites with the ramps, curb cuts and wider doors already built in instead of trying to fit them in after the fact. Let's do it right the first time.
-- Kathleen Anderson is a Webmaster in Connecticut's Office of the State Comptroller and chairwoman of the CMAC Web Site Accessibility Subcommittee. She can be reached at kathleen.anderson@po.state.ct.us or (860) 702-3355.
I shall address comments below.
...Glad you posted the article. I thought I'd posted the url for it
before it hit the news stands, but wanted to post it again and got hung
up with other things.
...she was solicitted for it.
...she was told to leave them out.
...this may be true, but this is the first actual top level to achieve
this as sailor and mec were mandated. This is hard to explain, but this
actually comes from within the gobvernment its self. While technically
you are correct, The goal for conneticut is to be the first to offer
completely adcessible government services. To my knowledge, that has
yet to be achieved by any state government.
Commendably accessible but I dare say that some of the pages that they
lead to have quagmire tendancies.
unless it has changed radically in the last two weeks, it is not what
I'd consider accessible. Further, the last time I checked, there was
only one directive regarding information on technology for the blind "go
to nfb".
I might also add that the site admin has been made aware that the page
where the article is located meeds to be more accessible. see below.
I'm sure Kathleen would love to hear from those working to make their
states and local municipal webs accessible.
To Bruce and David and my other WAI friends:
I was contacted by Civic.com and asked to write an opinion piece on web site
accessibility for state and local government information technology
managers. I was not asked to do a 'how-to' article or provide a list of
resources or organizations. There are many things I left out; unfortunately
I was limited to 700 words - I could have written enough to fill the entire
issue! I was not told to leave them out - there just wasn't enough room. I
am very aware of AWARE and the other resources and organizations that Bruce
mentioned; in fact, I am taking "Designing for Universal Accessibility with
HTML 4.0" http://www.hwg.org/services/classes/d201.8.html with Kynn
Bartlett right now and having a wonderful time - I highly recommend the
course.
If Connecticut 'comes in second' behind Maryland or any other state, that's
still not a bad place to be, IMHO. And Yes, I would love to hear from those
working to make their states and local municipal webs accessible.
Have a good holiday and a safe Y2K!
Kathleen Anderson, Webmaster
State of Connecticut
Office of the State Comptroller
55 Elm Street, Room 101
Hartford, Connecticut 06106
URL: http://www.osc.state.ct.us
CMAC Access: http://www.cmac.state.ct.us/access
I didn't pay her for this. ;)
BTW, the next course starts in February -- the Web Accessibility
course is always under-enrolled compared to the other classes (but
fortunately the HWG classes administration has a commitment to
keep offering this class!), so tell everyone you know!
I'm actually terrible at -self- promotion, so I have to rely on all
of you to do it for me. ;)
Kynn Bartlett mailto:kynn@hwg.org
President, HTML Writers Guild http://www.hwg.org/
AWARE Center Director http://aware.hwg.org/
