How to handle Advertisements
The following was the result of discussions on today's teleconference call.
The suggestion was that sites be allowed to claim conformance even if
advertisements did not conform as long as
the advertisements did not block access to the rest of the content.
Ways that ads could block access to the rest of the content included:
1. causing seizures
2. distraction
3. flashing screen reader readable text which might grab focus of screen
readers
4. pop ups
5. advertisements which either steal or keep keyboard focus
6. ads which make a page refresh periodically and thus caused screen
readers to reset.
It was commented that all but the seizure part might be okay if it was only
temporary. That is, it only continued for a short period of time and then
stopped automatically - or - if it was easy for the user to stop it. That
is, the behavior only persists for N seconds after the person first enters
the page (where N is two or three seconds or so but probably not as long as
8 or 10).
It was also felt that if the user agent could prevent or turn off any of
these behaviors then there would not be a need for the author to do that.
It would still be recommended that the authors not do it, but it wouldn't be
a requirement.
The definition of distraction has to be crafted very carefully since static
bright letters might be distracting. In this case it really means
distraction via movement etc. It was also pointed out that the purpose of
advertisements is to distract.
I agree, because one problem might be 'ambitious' Web sites (providing
accessible and standard conformable content) being annulled by cooperation
partners delivering inaccessible (advert) code -- will they force their partners to
comply with W3C or especially WAI standards (and are they at all able to
enforce this)? Or won't they, because they either don't care of foreign code or
they don't even see the problem?
Maybe the only realistic opportunity to get rid of (inaccessible) adverts.
-- By the way, this topic is like a gray area because there are several
characteristics only matching in the advertising sector... not only are foreign
providers responsible for an almost sensible Web site section (related to
content 'above the fold'), but also there still is a discussion about online
advertising efficiency [1, 2]. And in general, is a 'common sense appeal' really
enough?
Best regards,
Jens.
[1] Jakob Nielsen -- Will Plain-Text Ads Continue to Rule?
[2] Jakob Nielsen -- Making Web Advertisements Work
Jens Meiert
Interface Architect
Well, here is one point I was too timid to raise on Thursday with 5
minutes left. If services providers are pushing a range of adverts most
of which are simple gifs with an alt text. Then how can the site using
the advertising know for certain that there are not one or two
inaccessible ads and hence ruining their conformance. I have been
thinking about it, and since most sites use iframe to have ad content
served up to their site. This means that all the things we are asking
them to stop ad content from doing they have no control over. This
brings us full circle to that the ad content providers have to comply.
I am also afraid, however trivial it seems this is an issue we have to
deal with thoroughly we can not sweep it under the carpet. The reason I
say this is that whatever our own thoughts on the matter WCAG is quickly
becoming the defacto standard of what reasonable levels of
accessibility. I can see a situation where someone finds a site
inaccessible, sues the site, who sue the ad provider. This of course
would lead to a whole lot of wrangling over what is accessible and what
isn't, and WCAG being used to justify two cases at once. Whatever legal
decision happened could easily put acceptable accessibility in a
direction we do not agree with. So as political as it is, I suggest that
we make sure whatever our line is on this is rock solid. This I don't
think is.
So I guess I have to fall back on what Cynthia said, this is something
EO should look at. If they can get conformance (not really a hard thing)
from the ad providers there will be much less of problem.
Taciturnly,
Tom
Behalf Of Gregg Vanderheiden
How to handle Advertisements
The following was the result of discussions on today's teleconference
call.
The suggestion was that sites be allowed to claim conformance even if
advertisements did not conform as long as
the advertisements did not block access to the rest of the content.
Ways that ads could block access to the rest of the content included:
1. causing seizures
2. distraction
3. flashing screen reader readable text which might grab focus of
screen readers
4. pop ups
5. advertisements which either steal or keep keyboard focus
6. ads which make a page refresh periodically and thus caused screen
readers to reset.
It was commented that all but the seizure part might be okay if it was
only temporary. That is, it only continued for a short period of time
and then stopped automatically - or - if it was easy for the user to
stop it. That is, the behavior only persists for N seconds after the
person first enters the page (where N is two or three seconds or so but
probably not as long as 8 or 10).
It was also felt that if the user agent could prevent or turn off any of
these behaviors then there would not be a need for the author to do
that. It would still be recommended that the authors not do it, but it
wouldn't be a requirement.
The definition of distraction has to be crafted very carefully since
static bright letters might be distracting. In this case it really
means distraction via movement etc. It was also pointed out that the
purpose of advertisements is to distract.
I disagree with the suggestion. If the ad (which is content on the page)
doesn't conform, then the page doesn't conform.
If we write a conformance system that allows for variable conformance within
a page (this part conforms to extended, that part conforms to core, or to
"doesn't break the rest") then it would be fine.
I can't imagine that ads provided by a third party are different from any
other application provided by a third party, and don't think it makes sense
to allow a claim of conformance for something that doesn't conform. (I've
argued the detail before). It causes all kinds of problems, including one of
credibility.
cheers
Chaals
Post: 21 Mitchell street, FOOTSCRAY Vic 3011, Australia or
W3C, 2004 Route des Lucioles, 06902 Sophia Antipolis Cedex, France
Hi Charles,
There was a long discussion at the meeting (60 min) on this and the
group conclusion was that ads differed from other content on the page for a
number of reasons.
1 - you pay for other content and can choose it. With Ads, they pay you and
you usually subscribe to a service. You don't control the ads, nor do you
know what they will be like.
2 - if you can't find a service that has an accessible form of something,
you can skip that feature on your site. You can't skip the ads if that is
what is paying for your sites existence.
3 - there are often accessible forms of most things. There are only
limited Ad services. If a lucrative one existed that had only accessible
ads... then that would be great. But doesn't seem to be the case. If none
exists, the sites only options are to post accessible ads or shut down site.
(or, of course, ignore any accessibility).
4 - People coming to the site are coming for the content there. Not the
ads. If the ads are not accessible (but do not block access to the
information on the site), then the individuals did not miss anything that
they came for. [ Note that this exception on ads did not apply to ads that
the site had control of. For example, ads for that companies own products.]
5 - if the people are interested in the Ads, they could go to the ad site.
The ads would continue to have to meet the requirements of WCAG to be
considered accessible. But he site could be accessible if the third party
ads were not..... as long as the ads did not block access to the site
content.
I think I captured most of the content of the working group discussion. If
I missed a point - someone please let me know, or post a correction.
Gregg
Of Charles McCathieNevile
I disagree with the suggestion. If the ad (which is content on the page)
doesn't conform, then the page doesn't conform.
If we write a conformance system that allows for variable conformance within
a page (this part conforms to extended, that part conforms to core, or to
"doesn't break the rest") then it would be fine.
I can't imagine that ads provided by a third party are different from any
other application provided by a third party, and don't think it makes sense
to allow a claim of conformance for something that doesn't conform. (I've
argued the detail before). It causes all kinds of problems, including one of
credibility.
cheers
Chaals
partners to
code or
foreign
online
really
136
22
Post: 21 Mitchell street, FOOTSCRAY Vic 3011, Australia or
W3C, 2004 Route des Lucioles, 06902 Sophia Antipolis Cedex, France
Hi Gregg,
thanks for the explanation. In summary I am still opposed to the
exception for the reasons I have given in the past. A little more
detail below for anyone unfamiliar with the rough outline of the
argument.
I think that the exception is contrary to the goal of the guidelines,
and will weaken rather than strengthen accessibility, by providing a
means for claiming that some content is an advertisement and can
therefore claim conformance despite being manifestly not in conformance
with the guidelines as they would apply.
I also believe that such an exemption is inappropriate in the
guidelines - if it makes sense at all, it would make sense in material
directed at policy makers, providing further guidance on issues that
might arise in implementing the guidelines in a policy framework.
As I understand it, these guidelines are not a law to be imposed on
everyone, but a technical specification which describes what makes
something accessible. If there are good policy reasons for granting
exemption (just as if there are good policy reasons for requiring
conformance in the first place) it is the job of policy makers to
decide that, rather than for the working group to precipitate that
decision. For some legal systems such an exemption made by the working
group would be incompatible with the law, which would potentially
result in a law requiring that certain parts of the guidelines be
ignored in favour of better accessibility, which is embarassing as well
as putting the problem in the wrong place.
The arguments given below apply to other important services, from
search engine results to a third-party travel application provided for
a global intranet (these are two real applications I am dealing with in
a multinational company that I hope will become a great example).
The exception might be the argument that people don't go to a site for
advertising, but I don't see the point as relevant. People who find the
ad inaccessible are unlikely to go to the site that made it, and there
is a strong argument that the relevant destination is in any event
advertising and should get the exemption. Likewise, a global
organisation may not have any more control over their own advertising
material than they do over others', since it is likely to come from an
external provider (i.e. not the unit responsible for the website, which
may be a separate company in another country).
cheers
Chaals
On Monday, Sep 22, 2003, at 07:03 Australia/Sydney, Gregg Vanderheiden
Charles McCathieNevile Fundaci?n Sidar
charles@sidar.org http://www.sidar.org
Normally I'd agree to this point of view (because it's only consequent), but
in this case I think the considered way is best. First of all -- will
someone pass on integrating (thus using) ads if they are inaccessible? I don't
think so, because online advertising is still a uncontrollable (often in relation
to delivered source and content) must (despite its humble efficiency).
So, if this topic is being handled carefully (e.g. by treating adverts as an
exception), not only ad providers will possibly improve their source (code)
while a growing awareness of Accessibility importance offers an incentive to
measure up to this level -- and this will maybe rather succeed than trying to
force external content or ad partners to deliver valid and/or accessible
source.
All the best,
Jens.
Jens Meiert
Interface Architect
