Time:
10:00:00 Fri Oct 26 2001 in America/New York
which is equivalent to
15:00:00 Fri Oct 26 2001 in Europe/London
23:00:00 Fri Oct 26 2001 in Asia/Seoul
irc: irc.openprojects.net #rdfcore
1: Allocate scribe
2: Roll Call
3: Review Agenda
4: Next telecon - 10am Boston time, 2nd Nov 2001
The next telecon will focus on specific technical issues(s). Which issues will
be decided at the end of this telecon.
5: Review Minutes of previous meeting with correction
See:
6: Confirm Status of Completed Actions
ACTION: 2001-10-19#11 Sergey
to post text attempting to state the two options, ASAP
see:
7: Propose resolution of whether graphs are sets or bags
Propose the WG ACTION Pat to ensure that:
the model theory uses tidy graphs from which duplicate arcs have been removed
Further the WG notes that:
o an RDF/XML document may represent an untidy graph which contains duplicate arcs
o an n-triples document may represent an untidy graph which contains duplicate arcs
See:
8: Brief update on Primer status
9: Brief update on schema status
10: Status of Action 2001-08-02#7
Dave Beckett, with help from Art and Jan, investigate how to represent RDF/XML grammar and the specification of the transformation of RDF/XML to a graph representation.
11: Postpone syntax issues
The aim here is to quickly resolve those issues for which there is clear concensus. If extended discussion is needed, we will postpone the decision.
Propose the WG RESOLVE that the following issues be postponed for consideration by a future WG
See:
12: Close syntax issues
The aim here is to quickly resolve those issues for which there is clear concensus. If extended discussion is needed, we will postpone the decision.
Propose the WG RESOLVE that the following issues be closed on the grounds that they are resolved by the new approach taken to defining the syntax.
See:
13: Datatyping: Review Sergey's analysis and proposal
See:
14: Decide on topics for next telecon
This agenda was produced by Jema, the Jena WG assistant
I had a reaction against the wording ....
(Sorry - this sort of mailing is tedious).
Graphs for me are sets and cannot have duplicates to remove.
How about:
Propose the WG ACTION Pat to ensure that:
the model theory uses graphs with no duplicate arcs
Further the WG notes that:
o an RDF/XML document may contains duplicate triples
o an n-triples document may contains duplicate triples
o and such triples map to a single arc in a graph.
(Omitting the last point would leave Pat more wriggle room to take a
multiset view of graphs if he so chooses).
Jeremy
This is a vote of support for Jeremy's proposal.
Sergey
Well, we are the Core, guys: we can define them any way we like :-) .
RDF graphs are not mathematical graphs in any case (they seem to be
directed partially labelled pseudographs, as near as I can make out
from the various on-line mathematical lexica, but I promise not to
tell anyone about that.)
Pat
IHMC(850)434 8903 home
40 South Alcaniz St.(850)202 4416 office
phayes@ai.uwf.edu
As I won't be present, my comments to some issues below:
OK, but I'd draw attention to the start of section 2 as addressing (and
completing) the specific action. There is also much other material in this
message.
I like the direction here, and am happy to let the experts propose details.
[See separate message]
OK ( ... but on the grounds that they *will be* resolved by the new
approach taken to defining the syntax?)
I'm not sure exactly what the "proposal" is here. And I can't see if the
Model Theory approach to data typing being worked up by Peter-FPS and Pat
is really covered here.
Concerning the specific suggestions:
SUG1 - I have no strong view (though I'd be reluctant to require our
readers to also read [UML] and [CWM]?). Being able to use XSD datatypes
seems to be a given for this forum, though I'd prefer we were not limited
to the primitive datatypes introduced there. (I've already bemoaned the
lack of arbitrary rational numbers in XSD primitive datatypes.)
SUG2 - I generally favour of this, but it seems to me that attempts to do
this without some level of additional model theory support have their own
difficulties
(see my message:
SUG3 - unless I am missing something here (which I suspect I am), I've
seen plenty of use-cases where this just doesn't cut the mustard. Hence, I
don't find myself agreeing with:
Regarding the model theory for datatyping, I don't think that
datatyping needs some special treatment if we go along with SUG2 and
SUG3 . Of course, it would be fine to introduce a "shortcut" notation
for datatyping in the model theory if necessary, just like ICEXT is
defined as a shortcut in the MT draft.
(a) I think we'll want some kind of MT support for datatyping.
(b) "shortcut" sounds to me like a syntactic issue, so doesn't help us
remove required MT support.
#g
Graham Klyne MIMEsweeper Group
Strategic Research http://www.mimesweeper.com
