Jason and myself have been looking at the issue Al calls "Text
descriptions and alternatives for images" in his HC-plan page
(http://www.access.digex.net/%7Easgilman/web-access/HC-plan.html).
Reviewing
made us realize that Dave had already been improving the spec.
In particular, it does take care of the wording concern (not being
explicit enough about the use in non-graphical environments) Jason
raised a while ago.
We think we still need to add of something like:
In order to allow arbitrary anchor (such as long textual description)
in the OBJECT shapes content, OBJECT should only looks for A that
have a "coords" attributes and ignore the others when building the
image map.
Even though we think this will be the case by default: no coord = no
relevance for the image map and therefore no use.
We think the MAP extension is not to be pursued, as it's not backward
compatible for old browsers and would require the use of hacky comment
techniques to gain support.
We think we should ask the LONGDESC for IMG, the reasoning
being that it's simpler to implement than OBJECT and so we should see
implementation in Lynx/WebSpeak/Emacs sooner than expected and the
benefit of the functionatily present for users.
We do want FRAME to get a real TITLE attribute and a LONGDESC too, the
reasonning being that FRAME becomes equivalent to IMG in that
situation (result in inlining the image).
Additionally, we think the note on generating ALT text automatically:
should be improved to say that some prefix will be added to the
generated alt text when the author is not responsible for it, so that
the user know what quality to expect.
We also think this section should be moved in the Browser guideline
book, not in the HTML spec.
to follow up on what Daniel Dardailler said:
[snip]
I don't think that is browser behavior. Tags that are not recognized
are ignored. Content of unrecognized elements, on the other hand is
displayed because their containers are ignored and the content could
as well be text/plain.
I don't understand why plain text as content in an OBJECT doesn't have
the same problem with old browsers as plain text in the content of
a MAP. I hope Dave can clarify this point.
I believe that for LONGDESC to be a solution, there must be some default
browser behavior defined. I believe that there is not consensus on this
point, nor on what the default behavior is. There is a smaller issue
as to whether the HTML spec or a separate document is the place to
publish the default behavior.
That point will generate more discussion, you will need to explain it.
-- Al
In response to Al's query, it should be pointed out that although the
content of OBJECT is normally ignored if the resource which it designates
(for example an image or a script) can be processed, this is not the case
with an image map for which the boolean SHAPES attribute is specified.
Under these circumstances, the visual user agent processes the content of
OBJECT, searching for anchors that provide the coordinates of the various
regions of the image map. The text of the HTML specification, as currently
drafted, does not make this point sufficiently clear (it states that a
visual user agent will process the content of OBJECT, looking for anchors;
whereas it should qualify this by saying "anchors with COORDS
attributes"). This is a minor point relating to the accuracy of the
specification which is not directly an accessibility concern.
Moving to Al's more substantive concern, Daniel and I have given some
consideration to how LONGDESC should be presented to the user. The general
conclusion is that it should be controlled by style sheets. In practice,
of course, LONGDESC behaviour would most often be specified by the user's
default style sheet, since most document authors are unlikely to make
specific provision in their style sheets for non-visual media, even if
they take advantage of LONGDESC itself. LONGDESC would, in general, act as
a link to the description, which would be placed at the end of the current
document or, more typically, in a separate document. The presence of
LONGDESC could be signaled to the user by changing the speech or braille
formatting of the ALT text associated with the image, or by inserting text
next to the ALT text (for example the familiar "[D]" to indicate the
availability of a description).
There are, of course, limitations of CSS 2 syntax which prevent the
rendering of LONGDESC from being controlled effectively by styles. Daniel
is investigating these problems at the moment to find out whether they
will be resolved as part of the ongoing CSS development work. An
alternative would be to require the user agent to convert an image with
LONGDESC into an equivalent OBJECT element prior to applying styles to the
document. Such an OBJECT would have a class of LONGDESC, and automatically
generated content (for example, an anchor containing the text of the ALT
attribute from the original image). The OBJECT could then be addressed by
familiar CSS selectors.
Personally, I would prefer to extend CSS so as to permit the rendering of
LONGDESC to be specified directly, instead of relying on user agents to
transform img src="image.gif" alt="alt text" longdesc="description.html"
into object data="image.gif" a class="longdesc"
href="description.html" ALT text /a /object or similar markup.
Note that an alternative approach would be to import the contents of
description.html in the above example directly into the document.
To meet short term requirements, the types of behaviour mentioned above
could all be proposed as alternatives which text-based user agents could
implement, even if they do not support style sheets.
to follow up on what Jason White said:
That may be the only option.
It makes all the difference in the world to the writer of that
resource what is going to be done with it. If it is an inline
like OBJECT DATA=... you do one thing. If it is going to be
turned into a link, you write something else. For a hypertext
resource that will be browsed as its own page, you may well
include a reminder on how to get back using your browser "back"
function, or you include lots of pro-forma stuff that goes with
being a page on your site. This would not be included in a
resource designed to be applied inline.
From the author perspective it is unacceptable to have no idea of
what "normally" is going to happen with what you are writing.
If you can't tell the authors that, they likely won't write it.
We will be more effective if we can be reasonably definite.
-- Al
Al has made a good point, but I would maintain that it can be accommodated
without unduly restricting the user's freedom to choose the means by which
he or she wishes the long description to be rendered. The navigational
aspects of LONGDESC should be handled exclusively by the user agent. For
example, if LONGDESC is treated as a link, the user agent should prompt
the user to press a particular key in order to return to the underlying
HTML document. This should not be the responsibility of the author of the
long description. If a long description contains a title followed by the
text of the description, then it can just as easily be read as part of the
document or accessed via a link, provided in the former case that the user
agent signals the start and end of the dLONGDESC resource, for instance
with an audio cue.
Of course, long descriptions should be indicated in a way that
distinguishes them from ordinary links; but the details should be left to
the discretion of the user agent developer. All that the author needs to
provide is an HTML document containing a title (which is obligatory in any
event) and a text which, if read as part of the principal document at the
point where the image appears, would convey the same content as the image
itself, bearing in mind the purpose of the graphical resource and the
context of the principal document.
For image maps, the only assumption that need be made is that the ALT text
associated with each active region can be conveniently read by the user,
before or after reading the long description.
HTML 4.0 formally excludes OBJECT from occurring within PRE.
As a result, text within an OBJECT element would be rendered
as text within the BODY or P elements -- white space sequences
including newlines mapped to a space character etc.
default for which browsers?
For Netscape and Internet Explorer, I believe we can readily get
them to make this attribute available to scripts and programs in
languages such as Java that walk the parse tree using the features
being exposed via the Document Object Model. It will be practical to
develop tools for people with accessibility problems that leverage
the scripting interfaces to visual browsers. I don't think MS or NS
will want to do much specifically for screen readers, as these are
seen as something of an anachronism.
For browsers specially designed for non-visual rendering, I would
expect them to render the longdesc attribute appropriately, and
under user control. For instance images could be rendered by a sound
icon plus the alt text. The user would be able to ask for the
longdesc text if he or she so desired, e.g. via a spoken command or
key press.
Regards,
-- Dave Raggett dsr@w3.org http://www.w3.org/People/Raggett
World Wide Web Consortium (on assignment from HP Labs)
It is planned for CSS to include the ability to pickup attribute
values and to render them appropriately. Longdesc is trickier in
that it is a hypertext link and either needs to be presented as
such or deferenced in flow. We could perhaps add the ability for
CSS to create objects that serve as hypertext links. For speech
I imagine this would be a new property of the speak property.
It would be cool to use the alt text as the label for the link
implied by the associated longdesc attribute, perhaps along with
sound icons, corresponding to the visual underlining of links.
Regards,
-- Dave Raggett dsr@w3.org http://www.w3.org/People/Raggett
World Wide Web Consortium (on assignment from HP Labs)
Jason and Daniel, please note:
As a result, I don't see how OBJECT gives us a conditional
hypertext block that gets inlined when the image is not displayed
and hidden when the image is displayed (but accessible to an
off-screen model by attribute query).
We may need to define both LONGDESC for a normally-minimized
(i.e. displayed on the current page as a link, sometimes) HTML
resource and ALTSRC which is defined as an URL to be inlined in
lieu of the image when the image is not displayed. We would then
have to change the completeness rules so that either ALT or
ALTSRC was required, not ALT is required regardless.
-- Al
to follow up on what Dave Raggett said:
There could be different defaults for different functional
classes of browsers, but the one the authors will care about is
the class of browsers operating in the "screen" medium. The GUI
browsers.
That is not a position I can represent as reasonable to the
Interest Group. I would be lynched.
Furthermore, inlining a full-hypertext alternative to some image
is an improvement for any user with left-brain preference, not
just those with screen readers.
-- Al
Today with NS 4.03
This is a smiling clown, undoubtably a sad clown ...
You see the text contained by the object element, since NS 4.03
doesn't yet know how to deal with gif images in OBJECT. Lets
assume that a new version 4.0x does support gif, then when
you turn off images to speed loading, the browser would instead
show you the text, perhaps with an inserted hypertext link
to retrieve the image. This behaviour is of course UA dependent.
None of this effects the arguments for longdesc, which is about
how to allow authors to make pages, designed for the vast numbers
of browsers out there that don't support HTML 4.0, accessible.
For this we are introducing features that new browsers can
exploit, but which have no impact on existing browsers and so
can be safely used in pages intended for existing browsers.
Regards,
-- Dave Raggett dsr@w3.org http://www.w3.org/People/Raggett
World Wide Web Consortium (on assignment from HP Labs)
There is no need to define any default browser behaviour for the rendering
of LONGDESC, other than in very general terms. The details should be left
to the discretion of the user and the software developer. The essential
point is that the HTML document to which the attribute refers will be
presented at the point in the principal document where the image would
otherwise appear, either automatically or at the request of the user. The
presence of LONGDESC will be indicated appropriately by the user agent,
for example by means of an audio cue, a special marker in the text (like
the D-link) etc.
For GUI browsers, the presence of LONGDESC should be exposed to external
applications such as braille and audio output software. I agree with Al
that GUI browsers should also indicate LONGDESC visually if graphics have
been turned off. However, being mindful of Dave Raggett's warnings, DOM
exposure should be taken as a minimal requirement; inclusion as an option
in the visual interface is an extra demand that can be made, though we
know in advance that it is likely to be rejected.
