hi Jon
i'd be happy to participate in this call. thanks for asking.
however, i'm concerned about the follow up discussion this request
has generated in DOM vs OSM vs API, etc.
i'd advocate that DOM is just another tool/method, and if company A
chooses to use DOM, or an OSM, or some other idea, that is company A's
decision. i don't support the concept that *all* companies have to
use DOM . I understand the advantages and dis-advantages, just concerned
about any "tone" we present to the AT community.
i'm also concerned about how much push there is to add the "chrome" to
DOM. Rich said it best, when he replied yesterday regarding
the DOM working group meeting he attended last week:
In fact, it was amazing how many of the other companies present at the DOM
3 working group meeting had a need for an application architecture based on
DOM.
Please don't mis-interpret me. I understand the need, and I would also like
to see access to the chrome. I just don't believe it belongs *inside* the DOM.
Indeed, I wonder how many of these "application architectures" are web based
and thus, I wish the DOM working group, and PF would step back and look at
all the possible web based applications of DOM, and what would happen if DOM
followed the data model of the MVC (model, view, controller paradigm)
rather than be extended endlessly to handle each and every new
need/requirement. Perhaps I'm hung up on semantics here, and maybe
the DOM working group's idea about extending the DOM to include
the chrome is really creating the "view and controller". If so, then
my conerns are not as serious.
However, I don't understand things to be that way, and as they say, "I
think the cat
got out of the bag", when DOM2 included Events. If DOM3 is really
going to address accessibility, and work in the future, with all these
applications and devices, which we have yet to develop, now is the time to
look at these
things.
Regards
Mark
also, while i support most of what the UA group has said about
supporting DOM, i am not in favor of adding the chrome (UI) to DOM. In my
opinion, DOM should remain the "clean" data model of the MVC
(model, view, controller paradigm). If the DOM is "extended" to
somehow include the chrome, then the "method of this extension"
is my concern.
mark
Peter, Mark and Rich,
The W3C WAI User Agent guidelines are going to be in Candidate
Recommendation within a day or two. Part of the goal of our candidate
recommendation period is to discuss the use of the DOM with AT vendors for
assistive technologies to provide alternative access to WWW content. We
hope to gain their support in using the DOM as the primary way to provide
an exchange of WWW content between user agents and assistive technologies.
We have tenatively scheduled this meeting for 18 Feburary at 2:00 EST. I
would like to invite all of you to participate in this teleconference and
was wondering about your availability and interest in attending at the
tenative date and time.
Thank you,
Jon
We talked about this at the ftf in Austin; the possibility of
removing the DOM-specific part and making it a general requirement
for exchange of content, with the DOM being one possible solution.
Those at the ftf meeting felt the DOM was important enough to
stand out.
- Ian
Mark,
The only real discussion about DOM in the current UA guidelines is for the
full implementation of DOM level 1 to provide access to the content. This
is a big enough problem for the working groups and developers right now.
The idea of adding chrome to the DOM is an idea of interest to the current
UA group, but it really will not effect the current guidelines. Our
biggest job right now is educating of AT developers of the DOM capabilities
and encouraging them to support the use of DOM to access content. This
support should be based on having access to information they do not have
right now through other means or it will be easier to get the information
through DOM.
Jon
Jon Gunderson, Ph.D., ATP
Coordinator of Assistive Communication and Information Technology
Chair, W3C WAI User Agent Working Group
Division of Rehabilitation - Education Services
College of Applied Life Studies
University of Illinois at Urbana/Champaign
1207 S. Oak Street, Champaign, IL 61820
Voice: (217) 244-5870
E-mail: jongund@uiuc.edu
WWW: http://www.staff.uiuc.edu/~jongund
WWW: http://www.w3.org/wai/ua
