A couple of quick comments on Joe Clark's comments
http://joeclark.org/f2f/?GL on WCAG 2.0 Public Draft:
Under "Deficiency Report:
1) Checkpoint 1.1: I agree with Joe's concern over the use of the word
"significant". This checkpoint should emphasize the importance of all
dialog and sound effects being captioned.
2) Response to captioning implementation issue in Joe's comments:
"There is no reliable way to produce online closed captions, using media
players? scripting or text formats, that works in the real world. Magpie and
similar SMIL/SAMI generators are not production-ready."
This is listed as an implementation issue under the subheading "Real-Time
Video". The statement that there is no reliable way to produce online
closed captions is false. Captions can be delivered for Real and Windows
media open or closed very reliably. This can be done for both real-time and
off-line (not live) projects. It is done very infrequently for live
broadcasts, but is reliable when done. The obstacles to live closed
captions seem to be budgetary rather than technical.
Regarding MAGpie and other SMIL/SAMI generators, I'm not sure how that fits
in here. MAGpie is not designed as a tool for real-time captioning, so it
is certainly not production-ready for that task. However, with regard to
off-line captioning, there are a number of tools that can be used to create
closed captions for a variety of media types. Depending on the definition
of "production-ready", you might or might not consider tools like MAGpie and
HiSoftware's HiCaption "ready". These tools are used in production
environments. In addition, a variety of "Production" tools (including the
one used by the Media Access Group here at WGBH) are capable of delivering
text tracks for different media formats.
Under "Recommendations":
It?s unrealistic to expect authors to caption all their videoclips right
away.
i. They don?t have the expertise and certainly should not be encouraged
to guess or dabble.
It may be unrealistic to expect, but it is important to set the bar on what
accessible means with regard to multimedia content for people who can't
hear. WCAG 2.0 should not set phase-in percentages; that should be left to
a legislative interpretation.
Dabbling should be encouraged. People learn from bad examples as much as
good ones, and bad captions are usually better than no captions. Large
productions tend to outsource or hire trained captioners because of the
efficiencies of the work being done by a professional.
These comments also apply to audio description, although it is certain that
fewer people will dabble at audio description than captioning.
4) On transcription:
"Transcription is not the way to make video accessible. The correct
accessibility methods are captioning and audio description."
It is important to keep transcription on the table. A deaf-blind person
doesn't benefit from audio description unless there is a text transcript
that includes the audio description text. Caption and audio description
production can include an additional step to output such a transcript.
5) On collated text transcripts:
"A ?combined? caption transcript plus audio-description script has been
attempted exactly once in known history (for a demonstration project that
was never completed). There is no method to combine those two sources due,
among other reasons, to a lack of interchange formats. The idea is a
non-starter."
Previous attempts are probably not too relevant here. This is easy to do
and is important for deaf-blind users. There is no post-production method
for combining the CC and AD sources, but it can be accomplished using
MAGpie's XML project file and XSLT. This is not a built-in feature of
MAGpie at this time, but a method exists.
6) Under "original Web content":
"Live video and audio presentations should require captioning or description
only if the source is already captioned or described. Adding real-time
captions is an onerous process online, reliant on proprietary JavaScript
methods; it?s also expensive. Live description has almost never been
attempted."
This comes back to the practicality of Real-time web captioning. It is
possible and practical, and doesn't require proprietary javascript methods.
It is expensive, but it is hard to find any time-sensitive skilled labor
that isn't.
AWK
Andrew Kirkpatrick
CPB/WGBH National Center for Accessible Media
125 Western Ave.
Boston, MA 02134
E-mail: andrew_kirkpatrick@wgbh.org
Web site: ncam.wgbh.org
617-300-3400 (main NCAM)
617-300-2489 (TTY)
WGBH enriches people's lives through programs and services that educate,
inspire, and entertain, fostering citizenship and culture, the joy of
learning, and the power of diverse perspectives.
Hi guys, after last weeks extensive discussion about the gateway docs. I
made a little something for the use cases. I am not sure how accessible
this pdf is. If I have managed to bork it will someone please let me
know and I will attempt to fix it.
Tom
Here is the text from Tom's PERSONNA PDF
Personae and Use Cases for WCAG 2.0
Guidelines and Techniques
The people who would want to use WCAG 2.0 fall neatly into
two main categories, professionals and non-professionals.
There is one important difference between pro and non-pro,
motivation. The vast majority of pros using WCAG 2.0 are
going to be doing it on a business case. This might be for
increased market share, or legal reasons but critically they
are doing it as long as it isn't too much work. The definition of
too much work of course depends on the company policy and
individual doing the work. Thus professionals using the
document are split into willing and unwilling. For example a
PwD (not necessarily impaired using the web) would be much
more willing to consider and spend time on accessibility due
to the empathy their own disability gives them.
Professionals
Willing Unwilling
Designer Designer
Programmer Programmer
Lawyer / Manager
(legal assessment)
Accessibility Professional
Non-professionals
Willing Unwilling
PwD looking for info
Web master wanting to be compliant
Marc
"I just want to make sure my design looks
ok, but I have to follow these standards too."
Marc spent a lot of work on this project
doing what he does best, graphic design. He
knows he has to make it accessible too but
his design comes first. He hasn't really
thought about the accessibility much, and
finds the documents rather too long. He might buy a book on the subject but
is more likely to buy a new game for his Play Station 2.
Age: 26
Company: Small web design company
Potential: Marc loves design and he could get used to making all his sites
with accessibility in mind. Making great looking sites isn't 9 to 5 for Marc
so
he really does want to do the best job he can. Right now though he thinks
accessibility just gets in the way.
Andy
"I have a deadline, and it's not like we have any
disabled users anyway. I looked at the server logs
I should know."
Andy is 'elite', a hardcore code monkey. He runs
the web servers, and codes on the web site. The
most technical guy in the company he takes the
lead with technical decisions. He thinks all this
accessibility stuff is just 'PC BS' it's not like
people with disabilities ever come onto his site.
Age: 34
Company: Medium sized food packaging company
Potential: Andy doesn't see the need for accessibility. His boss heard about
it
and told him to check it out. However since Andy is the only person who
knows how to do the web sites ultimately it's his decision. Unless he sees
the
need for it he isn't going to waste his time, after all this is just a 9
till 5 job.
He has better things to do at night with a Linux kernel.
Jessica
"I haven't got time to mess around. I need to
know where we stand, legally speaking."
Jessica likes power suits, power meetings and
power bars for power lunches. She is responsible
for risk management at her company. She wants
to know where her company would stand in a
lawsuit. She wants concise information that she
can verify with the team responsible for the
company intranet and web sites.
Age: 28
Company: Large enterprise industrial company
Potential: Jessica is keen to see that her company is covered. She would
probably be happy with the minimum needed to cover her bases. However
she could easily be persuaded to push the web development team that little
bit further to achieve that extra level of compliance, and legal safety.
Mary
"It would be nice to know what I can expect
from web sites. I know they are supposed to
help me but I don't know how exactly."
Mary has a motor neuron condition which
impairs her movement. Most of her friends
say 'Mary just walks a little funny' but she
also has trouble with a mouse. Mary would
love to know what web sites are supposed to
be doing for her but she isn't overly technical.
Age: 19
Company: Mary is doing a Degree at college
Potential: If Mary knew what was a reasonable amount of accessibility for
web sites to offer she might write a few letters when web sites didn't meet
those standards. She would probably complain to the faculty that their
supposedly accessible web site didn't really help her, and these people at
the
W3C said it wouldn't be to hard to fix.
Of Tom Croucher
Hi guys, after last weeks extensive discussion about the gateway docs. I
made a little something for the use cases. I am not sure how accessible
this pdf is. If I have managed to bork it will someone please let me
know and I will attempt to fix it.
Tom
