Pat,
Since http://www.daml.org/listarchive/joint-committee/ is public
and since I'm reading them from time to time, I came across
In there, I found (among other comments)
It might be salutary and useful if the RDFCore were to spend some
time listening to what the ontologists want, instead of telling them
what they can have.
Since I am a member of the RDFCore WG I'm more than glad to listen
to the ontologists. So what do the ontologists want?
Jos De Roo, AGFA http://www.agfa.com/w3c/jdroo/
As another member of the RDFCore WG, I'd like to second the motion. At
the same time, there's been a fair bit of comment on www-rdf-logic on
what RDF lacks that is useful input on this particular issue (as well as
both axiomatic and model-theoretic semantics that can provide a good
starting point).
--Frank
Frank Manola The MITRE Corporation
202 Burlington Road, MS A345 Bedford, MA 01730-1420
As one of the ontologists, I have quite a number of concerns with RDF,
which I have mentioned several times. I think, however, that Jonathan
Borden did a great summary of what I want, namely:
[...] strip out all the stuff from RDF that no one agrees on (such
as reification). Start with a simple but rock solid foundation, and
add concepts in only as absolutely necessary.
I would also add that I want a firm meaning for everything in RDF, and that
includes things like bags and alternatives, if they stay in. (I am of the
strong belief that bags and alternative do not have any reasonable meaning
provided by RDF.)
Peter Patel-Schneider
From: jos.deroo.jd@belgium.agfa.com
Subject: What do the ontologists want?
Date: Sat, 12 May 2001 22:59:56 +0100
I can't speak for the ontologists, since I am not one.
But I can speak for my company's use of references to
elements in controlled vocabularies. We will have
lots of statements such as
which is a reference to a (hypothetical) node in the
NAICS industry sector classification system.
We need to be able to tell certain things about these
statements, such as whether a human has reviewed them,
or whether the code was explicitly added or implicitly
added because it was a broader term of an explicitly
added code.
One way of accomplishing those needs would be through
reification, although the current reification approach seems
overly cumbersome. Perhaps others can suggest other ways
of fulfilling those requirements.
Ron
Certainly being able to quote statements/triples is useful ... indeed a
practical requirement.
For example I've suggested a quoting syntax for triples using an XPointer
extension triple(predicate,subject,object):
ex:foo, http://example.org/NAICS/1234 )
This yields a URI which can be discussed as needed.
The paper: http://www.openhealth.org/RDF/RDFmediatype.html
some of this still needs to be fleshed out.
Your comments would be appreciated.
-Jonathan
