hey,
what a pleasant surprise! check it out:
I haven't read all of the articles, but i'm impressed that it's a major
category on their navigation bar!
--w
wendy chisholm
human factors engineer
trace research and development center
university of wisconsin - madison, USA
Wendy, I checked out the site, and read some of the titles. One of the
articles disturbed me rather much. "Disabling Web Barriers" had a subtitle
that said "incresing use of dynamic content, multimedia advances could foil
disabled users ability to surf the net." In the article it said that the
considerations for access to the web applied to both physically and
cognitively impaired folks. No where in the article did it even suggest
that multi-media advances would enable surfing by increasing numbers of
cognitively-disabled folks, but instead implied that progress would impede
use by "the disabled".
Not a "pleasant" surprise at all....
Anne
Anne L. Pemberton
apembert@crosslink.net
Enabling Support Foundation
Wendy,
I agree that it is surely a good thing to have ZD-NET recognize the importance
of Web accessibility. It's too bad that the articles are mostly out of date
and provide information that might have been buried in a pile of old magazines
if not recently collected and posted to the site.
The main piece, Making Your Web Site Accessible: By Liora Alschuler, July 15,
1998, seems very out of date with respect to Bobby, even though it is only a
year old.
Oh well. Some good, some not so good. At least they date the articles.
Chuck
Chuck Hitchcock, Director
Universal Design Lab (UDL)and
Product Development,
CAST, Inc.,
39 Cross Street, Peabody, MA 01960
Voice 978 531-8555
TTY 978 531-3110
Although everybody seems to love complaining about
WAI's press coverage, I think that ZDnet's section
is the best piece I read so far about accessibility,
in the general web authoring online magazines.
The major impression the reader is left with is that
"accessible design is good design" and that the cost of making
accessible site is essentially the same of making inaccessible
ones.
True, a great deal of the stuff there is outdated, but it has links
to other resources that are updated, notably Bobby and the WAI's
website.
People who want to do accessible sites will go to the
other resouces after getting a non-threatning
good impression from ZDnet's site.
regards,
Nir Dagan
"There is nothing quite so practical as a good theory."
-- A. Einstein
