All,
I have a possible additional use case for you: content negotiation.
Some time ago, I did some work for an IETF specification using logical
expressions to describe sets of features, in a fashion having similarities
with Description Logics. In particular, the feature matching (i.e.
matching content origination capabilities with receiver capabilities) was,
I think, a form of subsumption calculation. See RFC 2533 [1] for more details.
Now we have CC/PP using RDF to describe client capabilities, but without
any framework for matching them with origination capabilities. E.g. the
sort of missing capability one could imagine is a number of content
generation stylesheets, each associated with a description of required
media features, from which a selection could be made by matching with the
client CC/PP profile. Preferably, this stylesheet would have a form very
similar to the CC/PP profile. This could provide a basis for protocol- and
application-independent content negotiation [2].
A long-term goal of mine is to work to converge the CC/PP and IETF RFC2533
frameworks to the point that the semantics, if not the syntax, are readily
exchangeable. Some work on converging vocabularies is underway. I had
been looking to the DAML/OWL work to provide a basis for implementing
feature matching of descriptions using logical expressions. There may be
some difficulties with the RFC 2533 form, as it uses negation and
disjunction, and keeps the computation tractable by limiting the
expressions in other ways. (I don't fully grok the constraints on DL
expressions that are used to ensure tractability.)
I have one other comment on the requirements document, concerning
procedural attachments.
While I can understand that there will be new applications that will need
some kind of extension to OWL to fulfill their requirements, I think it
would be a great shame if the language cannot satisfy its original use-case
goals without such extension (particularly given that string and arithmetic
primitives are also noted in the objectives).
Also, the term "procedural" makes me nervous. I strongly feel that such
attachments, where used, should not be used to allow an OWL expression to
have side-effects, as that would introduce all sorts of
evaluation-scheduling constraints (e.g. would effectively prohibit caching
of already-evaluated results). Related to this, I think that where
external evaluations are used, the OWL processor should be able to know if
they depend upon volatile conditions -- i.e. can the result be evaluated
once and then cached for use as-needed? (Specifically, I would like to be
able to perform OWL evaluations in the framework of a functional
programming environment using lazy evaluation.)
#g
[1] ftp://ftp.rfc-editor.org/in-notes/rfc2533.txt
[2] ftp://ftp.rfc-editor.org/in-notes/rfc2703.txt
RDFers - the Web Ontology Working Group has published our first working
draft - a use cases and requirements document for the Web Ontology
Language [1]. We are soliciting comments on the document at
issues on rdf-logic. We'd very much like to hear from you
thanks
Jim Hendler and Guus Schreiber
WebOnt WG CoChairs
p.s. apologies for the cross post - we thought both groups might be
interested. Please direct responses as discussed above.
[1] http://www.w3.org/TR/2002/WD-webont-req-20020307/
Professor James Hendler hendler@cs.umd.edu
Director, Semantic Web and Agent Technologies 301-405-2696
AV Williams Building, Univ of Maryland College Park, MD 20742
Graham Klyne
These comments may have already been fed into the process via Jeremy Carroll so
apologies if these are just repetition ...
1. The multimedia-collections use case is not completely convincing. There are
domains where purely symbolic descriptions are very appropriate but others, such
as this, which also demand subsymbolic descriptions. Certainly symbolic metadata
annotations can be, and are being, used for multimedia data, However, this
domain raises issues about representation of uncertainty, about statistical
rather than logical classifications and relations, about representation of
non-rigid qualifiers (e.g. the "late" in the example) and so forth - none of
which I see being addressed in the requirements sections. Personally I am
comfortable that Webont should not address such issues but this use case is
potentially misleading.
2. Can I suggest a requirement (or objective) that ontologies can be annotated
with additional meta information at a fine grain. There is a requirement already
for overall ontology annotation and a more specialized "procedural attachment"
objective. I'd prefer a general mechanism, as is currently possible which
DAML-in-RDF, which could be applied to more than just procedural attachment. For
example, I can see uses for an application annotating a class with non-logical
information such as display hints or inference hints which don't affect the
semantics but affect the nature and performance of the application. If you do
not build on top of RDF (where it comes for free) then a similarly open-ended
method of annotation or extension would be useful.
3. It is implicit in the whole document but I didn't see an explicit
goal/requirement/objective that OWL should be usable to describe the ontology of
terms used in RDF fact bases. I take it that this is a given (that RDF is the
"Abox" for OWL's "Tbox") but a more explicit statement of the relationship
between RDF and OWL might be helpful.
Dave
Graham,
Thank you for your comments. As for use cases, we did not try to provide
an exhaustive set, we only wanted to find very distinct, representative
use cases. The use case you mention is a good one, but unless it
generates some new requirements, there is no real need to add it to the
document.
I want to clarify that the objectives section of the document lists
things that some members of the group thought would be useful, but there
was no consensus on. Sometimes this was because the objective was not
well-defined, other times it was because it was considered too hard for
the first version of the language. There was no effort to keep these
objectives orthoganal, and thus some may overlap with each other (as you
point out, procedural attachments could be used to perform arithmetic or
string comparisons). Your concerns about procedural attachments are duly
noted, and should be mentioned in the description of the objective. It
is highly unlikely that this objective will be addressed in this version
of the language, but if it is, we'll take your suggestions into
consideration.
Jeff
RDFers - the Web Ontology Working Group has published our first working
draft - a use cases and requirements document for the Web Ontology
Language [1]. We are soliciting comments on the document at
issues on rdf-logic. We'd very much like to hear from you
thanks
Jim Hendler and Guus Schreiber
WebOnt WG CoChairs
p.s. apologies for the cross post - we thought both groups might be
interested. Please direct responses as discussed above.
[1] http://www.w3.org/TR/2002/WD-webont-req-20020307/
Professor James Hendler hendler@cs.umd.edu
Director, Semantic Web and Agent Technologies 301-405-2696
AV Williams Building, Univ of Maryland College Park, MD 20742
