A New Internet-Draft is available from the on-line Internet-Drafts directories.
This draft is a work item of the WWW Distributed Authoring and Versioning Working Group of the IETF.
Title: Binding Extensions to Web Distributed Authoring and Versioning (WebDAV)
Author(s): G. Clemm, et al.
Filename: draft-ietf-webdav-bind-05.txt
Pages: 32
Date: 2004-3-25
This specification defines bindings, and the BIND method for creating
multiple bindings to the same resource. Creating a new binding to a
resource causes at least one new URI to be mapped to that resource.
Servers are required to insure the integrity of any bindings that they
allow to be created.
A URL for this Internet-Draft is:
To remove yourself from the IETF Announcement list, send a message to
ietf-announce-request with the word unsubscribe in the body of the message.
Internet-Drafts are also available by anonymous FTP. Login with the username
"anonymous" and a password of your e-mail address. After logging in,
type "cd internet-drafts" and then
"get draft-ietf-webdav-bind-05.txt".
A list of Internet-Drafts directories can be found in
or ftp://ftp.ietf.org/ietf/1shadow-sites.txt
Internet-Drafts can also be obtained by e-mail.
Send a message to:
mailserv@ietf.org.
In the body type:
"FILE /internet-drafts/draft-ietf-webdav-bind-05.txt".
NOTE:The mail server at ietf.org can return the document in
MIME-encoded form by using the "mpack" utility. To use this
feature, insert the command "ENCODING mime" before the "FILE"
command. To decode the response(s), you will need "munpack" or
a MIME-compliant mail reader. Different MIME-compliant mail readers
exhibit different behavior, especially when dealing with
"multipart" MIME messages (i.e. documents which have been split
up into multiple messages), so check your local documentation on
how to manipulate these messages.
Below is the data which will enable a MIME compliant mail reader
implementation to automatically retrieve the ASCII version of the
Internet-Draft.
Hi,
this draft contains the latest changes discussed here on the list (see
issues (see
and
http://greenbytes.de/tech/webdav/draft-ietf-webdav-bind-05.html#rfc.issue.6_precondition_binding_allowed ).
Geoff and I feel that this draft is ready for a working group last call.
Any new issues that require spec changes then can be made in the draft
that we submit to IESG last call.
Best regards,
Julian
Patrik, Lisa:
Please issue last call on the draft-ietf-webdav-bind-05.txt.
All semantic and marshalling issues have been resolved,
and all recent email has been around questions of whether to
add any additional explanatory text, which we can continue
to discuss during last call.
Thanks,
Geoff
Julian wrote on 03/25/2004 03:58:34 PM:
Julian
+1
We've addressed all issues brought up, right? Count me as +1.
