First, regrets for tomorrow -- I will be out of the office in the
afternoon.
Secondly, here is another version of 4.1, recast along the lines
suggested by Jason and Wendy et al. Lisa and I would like to get some
feedback to see if this form is more agreeable (or if we need to be more
explicit about making all the criteria testable.)
You will have successfully met Checkpoint 4.1 at the Minimum Level if:
You reviewed the content and determined that the level of clarity is
appropriate, based on considerations such as these:
? Page titles are accurate and unique.
? The words and language structure are likely to be familiar to the
intended audience.
? Terms that should be familiar to the intended audience are favored
over terms that are less likely to be understood.
? Sentences are limited to a single idea.
? Paragraphs are limited to a single idea.
? Summaries are provided where these would aid understanding.
? Headings and linked text are unique and make sense when read out of
context.
You will have successfully met Checkpoint 4.1 at Level 2 if:
You reviewed the content and determined that the level of clarity is
appropriate, based on considerations such as these:
? Are sentence structures that increase understanding (such as active
voice in English and other languages) favored over those that reduce
understanding?
? Are most noun phrases limited to no more than three nouns?
? Are verb phrases likely to be understood?
? Are verb tenses only as complex as required?
? Do uses of slang or idioms support the purpose of the content?
? Are instances of ambiguity intentional?
? Is the writing style concrete enough, or abstract enough, for the
intended purpose?
? Would long paragraphs be easier to understand if rewritten as vertical
lists?
? Is the order of information logical?
? Are names and labels used consistently within a document?
? Are instructions or required actions explained step-by-step?
? Do sentences that explain actions and conditions list the conditions
first?
? Is it clear when users are being addressed?
? Are choices and options clearly explained?
? Are options to get more information clearly labeled?
? Is key information highlighted with proper markup?
? Is goal-action structure used for menu prompts?
? Are defaults provided, and is it easy to re-establish them?
? Is a two-step "select and confirm" process used to reduce accidental
selections for critical functions?
? Are there clear instructions about how to modify selections in
critical functions (such as how to delete an item from a shopping cart)?
? Is calculation assistance provided to reduce the need to calculate?
You will have successfully met checkpoint 4.1 at level 3 if
1. New material is tested with potential users for ease of
accessibility, or
2. A controlled language is used, or
3. Support has been given for conversion into symbolic languages.
Yes, this is in line with what was suggested at the meeting, and a
very good draft as well.
In view of Avi's absence I suggest scheduling a full discussion of 4.1
for the next meeting (in two weeks time). Meanwhile, as always,
comments and discussion are welcome on the mailing list.
In my opinion this is exactly what was suggested at the meeting. My
only comment is a pedantic point (see below).
We need to decide whether the considerations listed under checkpoint
4.1 should be expressed as questions or statements. If they are to be
formulated as questions, then there is a problem in as much as it is
only implicit that the "right" or "desirable" answer to each of the
questions is in the affirmative. This difficulty could be remedied by
reformulating the preceding text thus:
You review the content and determine that questions such as the
following are to be answered in the affirmative, and hence that the
level of clarity is appropirate:
I realize this is more verbose but if the document isn't sufficiently
explicit on the point, the door will be left open for disputes over
whether the requirement is that an affirmative answer be given to each
of the questions in any review. Of course, if the "considerations"
listed under checkpoint 4.1 are written as statements, the
introductory prose can be simpler, as Avi's first-level proposal
demonstrates.
