Hello all.
This message is a request for comments on draft
simply extends the ENUM idea in RFC 2916 to get various contact URIs
using an email address, instead of a telephone address, as the starting
point. The question to this group is if this is a useful idea to pursue.
Abstract:
"ENUM uses NAPTR DNS Resource Records (RRs) to map an E.164 telephone
number to Uniform Resource Identifiers (URIs) of other ways of
contacting (for example, by email) a specific resource. This memo
proposes an ENUM-like service called EADDR where an email address,
instead of a telephone number, is used as the key to fetch other
contact URIs. At human level, EADDR seems more useful than ENUM
because it is easier to remember an email address than a telephone
number as the key. At machine level, both services are equally
useful."
Jasdip
sounds much like what the RESCAP WG is working on. perhaps you should
bring your proposal there.
the question is not whether this will work, but whether it's better to
put stuff in DNS or to vector it to a separate lookup service.
Not sure whether to agree or disagree. :)
Exactly. The choice will have various trade-offs for this and similar
problems.
- Loosely-coupled query framework - Result based on queries to DNS, Metadata
server, and Data server, or a tighter coupling in terms of role of a
particular protocol server (for example, ENUM (and EADDR) using DNS for
functionality beyond SRV and A queries).
- Access control in terms of who can ask and/or update what.
- (Ab)using an existing, deployed protocol or defining one anew? What criteria
define an abuse and are they reasonable in contrast with other factors in
favor of using something extant? What criteria justify creating a new
protocol? The dreadful question IMHO seems to be where do you stop touching
DNS? Also, where to start and stop using directory services like LDAP?
I don't know.
Is the working group page for RESCAP just really out-of-date or
are there actually no ID's and RFC's yet for it.
-andy
Andrew Newton
VeriSign Applied Research
anewton@research.netsol.com
the page is out-of-date. there have been several proposals submitted
as internet-drafts, and discussed by the group, but they've all been
*individual* internet drafts. such drafts don't appear on the group's
web page until the chair asks the secretariat that they be put there.
Keith
... this is a very old discussion, and in general the opinion was DNS
works well, but it is also the fundamental glue between addresses and
services, names etc, thus overloading it with new stuff IS WRONG.
More over I believe that DNS is OK for machine driven quick lookups, i.e.
domain name to server address or server name.
One of the main resons for using DNS is often said to be "it works, it is
everywhere". But:
- this is no nore exectly true: it "seems to be everywhere", but virtual
hosting often makes the DNS server not under control of the domain name
users
- it works, but it is defintly not suited for an "information lookup
service". IMHO the major disaster that DNS has ever made was the attempt
to identify it with a trademark and distighushed names database. :-)
- currently, and finally, due to a number of application seriously needing
real directory services in order to work (GRID computing, mobile users
authorisations - AAA, on-line phone books, X.509 Government issued
certificates to citizens,...) the LDAP / Directory infrastructure is
being deployed (often non hyerarchically, but the directory bridge concept
seems to overcome the problem). This infrastructure is not at all in the
same places and same hands than DNS servers, but it seems much more
suitable to the needs expressed in your document.
It is just a personal view, of course, but I woul prefer efforts being
aimed to coordinate LDAP servers and define the relevant OIDs.
Claudio
The phrases "putting stuff in DNS" and "overloading DNS" deserve another look. It
seems that the "U" flag in NAPTR RR is being questioned in contrast with the "S"
and "A" flags. If yes, then does ENUM as proposed in RFC 2916 need
standardization? The use of the "U" flag in NAPTR RR for ENUM seems reasonable as
it starts with a derived domain name and transforms it to another network
resource identifier and not the data within it. However, this solution is limited
by lack of access control if an application needs so.
We probably need a clearer definition of a lookup framework specifying the roles
of various protocols like DNS, LDAP, CNRP, RESCAP, etc(?) in the various layers
of the framework for resolution discovery and resolution. And, when and if
violation of these layers is ok. IMHO, this will greatly help alleviate the
confusion.
Jasdip
As in the method layed in this draft:
draft-hall-ldap-whois-00.txt
-andy
Andrew Newton
VeriSign Applied Research
anewton@research.netsol.com
