HIGHLIGHTS OF TELECON ON 5/30/2002
INTRODUCTORY NOTES
Here are Highlights from the telecon today.
1) I am working with Ben and the Telconf crew to capture the highlights
for future reference and quick looks by all to the most important things
the group thought to capture so you all can comment. Occasionally
when an idea came from someone their name will be mentioned near it.
The final text however isn't usually exactly what they said but rather
the wording after discussion. So if you like it.credit them with the
idea. If you don't like it.. Blame the committee for either changing
it or endorsing it.
By the way.
We will also put together a "HIGHLIGHTS OF MEETINGS" page so you can
find these all in one place over time.
2) Wendy is also creating a Resources and References page (or some
similar name) that will include links to all the different docs and
links that we looked at or used as part of our discussions for future
reference. It will group them by topics.
TOPIC HIGHLIGHTS OF TELECON ON 5/30/2002
Recorded by Gregg Van and Ben Caldwell
Regarding FLICKER discussion:
1) We felt that everything about what the author needed to do so that
users could view without seizures needed to be in level 1. Level 2
might be about things that meant users wouldn't need to have fast
equipment in order to be sure - but they should be able to have
reasonable equip and be safe with level 1. This isn't the final word
on this but a thought we wanted to be sure to capture. (another
thought was that there be nothing below level 1)
2) Regarding the testing tool. Trace said it was going to explore.
Also thought of having a two ended tool (idea coming from the discussion
above). Two ended tool would be one that tested pages to meet a
certain criterion. Then also allowed users to test their computers to
see if their computers would safely display pages that met the tools
page test. (e.g. if screens the met the test would flicker on their
equipment because it was very slow or something - then they would know
it.)
3) Thought maybe the compliance levels might be
LEVEL 1
Success Criteria 1 - content was not designed to flicker (or flash)in
the range of 3 to 49 Hz.
Success Criteria 2 - (reader's note: we would like to include a second
criteria here which would state that a test that was conducted and the
pages passed. No test or tool exists yet though. Looking into how
such a test and / or tool might be designed.)
LEVEL 2
Success Criteria 1 - (tougher test - that would make pages pass with
even slower equip. Equip might be old or just slow for other reasons)
GENERAL COMMENTS REGARDING ALL CHECKPOINTS
1. (based on suggestion by Matt May) As a rule, we shouldn't ask
companies to guarantee that something won't happen, only to state that
they did something or that something didn't happen the author tested.
Regarding CONTRAST AND COLOR:
1. (based on suggestion from Cynthia) Suggested that instead of
using ratios or percentages, we define a specific number of points or
equation in RGB that could be used to determine sufficient contrast.
(e.g. don't say 10 to 1 contrast. Say contrast must be xx points
apart. For example " 200 points apart on a 256 scale"
2. ?? Is RGB the best format for making specifications? (Wendy took
@@ on this to ask some experts)
3. In determining success critieria for this checkpoint, we should
use scales that authors are familiar with and limit discussion of color
theory to display (rather than print) technologies.
Gregg
Gregg Vanderheiden Ph.D.
Ind Engr - Biomed - Trace, Univ of Wis
gv@trace.wisc.edu
May 30 telecon highlightsOk I am calling 4.1, still 3.3
I mean the same thing.
were is avoid confusing and distracting content?
individual comments:
Acronyms and Abbreviations are defined the first time they appear in
text. - without a short term memory, acronyms remain confusing. Mark
them up, all the time.
We must have make each word unambiguous or Hebrew and Arabic without Vowels
will stay acceptable
Lots of stuff in 4.1 missed out, (see
from the work done on the last including:
Highlight key information,
use active voicing in instructions, visual references, absolute
reference (rather than relative ones)
simplest word (for lowest reading age in the area were the highest %of
target audience) that does not change the meaning,
provide a mode with minimum functionality. - Eliminate or hide what isn't
essential. with simple screen layouts or one thing at a time presentation.
Use prompts for procedures and support decision making.
Structure tasks, provide step-by-step instructions Use a two-step "select
and confirm" to reduce accidental selections,
especially for critical functions ,cue sequences, use goal/action structure
for menu prompts, definite feedback cues,Provide defaults and make it easy
to re-establish them. calculation assistance, or reduce the need to
calculate.
Also I made a review of links from Greg not that long ago
from:
Lots of good stuff:
Do not use more then one negative in a sentence....
Use simple verb tenses.
Avoid split infinitives
omit needless words
Use concrete words
avoid redundancy ?(we would need to add that this is
only redundancy in text itself)
Avoid noun sandwiches e.g.: Underground mine worker
safety protection procedures development (add "OF" AND "FOR")
Readable sentences are
simple, active, affirmative, and declarative.
Use a known Lexicon, and stick to it
They recommend this by:
State one thing and only one thing in each sentence.
Divide long sentences into two or three short sentences.
Remove all unnecessary words. Strive for a simple sentence with a
subject and verb. Eliminate unnecessary modifiers.
[Include in WCAG ?] If only one or two simple conditions must be met
before a rule applies, state the conditions first and then state the
rule.
[Include in WCAG ?] If two or more complex conditions must be met before
a rule applies, state the rule first and then state the conditions.
[Include in WCAG ?] Use language consistently
Lisa
That is the problem, People assume that their target audience does not have
people with cognitive disabilities. Everyone Assumes that. but their is no
audience were you can know that no one is developing senility, or has LD or
many other common courses of cognition impairments without actually testing
everyone in your audience.
All the best
Lisa
Behalf Of Slaydon, Eugenia
I agree with Lee and Charles. "Use language that is easy to understand" is a
better wording for the checkpoint, but it is still constraining. Something
more along the lines of "Use language that is easily understandable by the
content's intended audience" ?
Eugenia
-----Original Message-----
I concur with Chaals. However, I have the same question as before.
If we say this, are we saying that the content must be written to a level
that everyone would understand. If a thesis, article, or scientific paper
is published on the Internet so others might be able to use the information,
is this then required to be easily understood by everyone?
It seems constraining and possibly discrediting to the individual's work or
studies. Or even discrediting to the business' research. If we go to the
library and do research on a scientific research project we expect to see
tough language and concepts. Wouldn't this also apply to the Internet?
Thanks,
Lee
-----Original Message-----
Behalf Of Charles McCathieNevile
I think the requirement belongs, but I agree that "as the author feels
appropriate" weakens the requirement beyond any point of usefulness. It also
makes self-fulfilling the claim (which I do not believe as consensus) that
it
is not possible to provide relatively objective success criteria (our 80%
rule) for this checkpoint.
How about "Use language that is easy to understand" as the text. This makes
no comment on the complexity of the content being described, does not
attempt
to incorporate success criteria such as "what the author thinks is
appropriate" into the checkpoint, and allows for success criteria to be
provided as well as additional techniques to be offered.
Cheers
Charles
I would like to object to 4.1 (and 4.2) - write as clearly and simply as
author feels appropriate for the content
I would prefer that the checkpoint is omitted entirely.
As it stands a site that is entirely inaccessible to people in terms of
conforms to 4.1 can claim conformance to 4.1.
This will serve to confuse people as to what sites are and are not
accessible to them
I also feel that "as appropriate for content " is offensive as most people
are not thinking in terms of linguistic art, but in terms of abilities.
In other words people will assume that WCAG thinks that there is content
were people with severe cognitive disabilities could not understand. I
prefer such a checkpoint should not be written
Thanks
Lisa
134 136
78 22
Location: 21 Mitchell street FOOTSCRAY Vic 3011, Australia
(or W3C INRIA, Route des Lucioles, BP 93, 06902 Sophia Antipolis Cedex,
France)
Charles' message presupposes that it is possible to make an absolute
distinction between "the content itself" of a document on the one hand, and
on the other hand "the language used to express the content."
I'm sorry, but I do not accept this premise. Different language is
different content. Even when the writer is making a good faith effort to
express what she or he believes to be the "same idea" in different ways, the
browser renders different "Web content" and the *reader* encounters
different "content" on the page: different words, different phrases,
different sentences, different rhythms, different images (whether manifest
in verbal or visual form), etc.
It seems to me that clinging to the notion that "content" is a separate,
highly stable entity that isn't affected by the "container" may actually
make our job harder, not easier. Expressed as an equation, the concept of
relativity is quite different from the concept of relativity expressed in a
series of sentences; I may understand the sentences, but I do not know how
to work the equations. The understanding I may derive from reading the
sentences may serve me well enough, but only as long as I'm not trying to do
physics.
Let's say we have two pages. Both are about relativity, but each uses a
very different vocabulary, a different syntax, a different representational
technique, a different explanatory strategy, a different rhetorical
approach. If we allow that these two pages have a shared topic but
*different content*, it seems to me that we then gain the ability to talk
about *both* the common problems facing anyone who tries to write/present
ideas about relativity, *and* the distinctive features of each site, the
unique accessibility challenges that each one faces and the unique solutions
each one develops. Those challenges have much less to do with relativity
(or whatever the subject matter happens to be) than with the techniques the
author has chosen for talking about it; thinking about accessibility from
the outset will likely shape those choices, mitigating against certain
choices and for others. By contrast, I get confused when we say these two
pages have the "same content" though it's expressed in completely different
language. I don't know where that "content" resides: it's *not* in the
document (literally, the content of the document consists of a set of
alphanumeric characters, references to some image and sound files perhaps,
some markup, etc., and the two documents aren't the same in this regard); so
then we find ourselves trying to make something accessible that isn't
actually *there* in the document.
John
No, we are not saying anything about the content itself. We are only
discussing the language used to express the content.
If I go to the library and find a book full of complex language and a book
full of plain language describing the same content I choose the one with the
plain language.
If I need to recommend something for other people to use I am more inclined
to think about how well the language is written. Not in terms of artistic
merit, in terms of technical use of language to convey information - sort of
like the idea of building a bridge that can carry the vehicles that are
going
to cross it.
The requirement has nothing to do with the complexity of the ideas or
information being expressed. Which is why I proposed wording that doesn't
mention those things.
cheers
Chaals
-----Original Message-----
I concur with Chaals. However, I have the same question as before.
If we say this, are we saying that the content must be written to a level
that everyone would understand. If a thesis, article, or scientific paper
is published on the Internet so others might be able to use the
information,
is this then required to be easily understood by everyone?
It seems constraining and possibly discrediting to the individual's work
or
studies. Or even discrediting to the business' research. If we go to the
library and do research on a scientific research project we expect to see
tough language and concepts. Wouldn't this also apply to the Internet?
Thanks,
Lee
-----Original Message-----
Behalf Of Charles McCathieNevile
I think the requirement belongs, but I agree that "as the author feels
appropriate" weakens the requirement beyond any point of usefulness. It
also
makes self-fulfilling the claim (which I do not believe as consensus) that
it
is not possible to provide relatively objective success criteria (our 80%
rule) for this checkpoint.
How about "Use language that is easy to understand" as the text. This
makes
no comment on the complexity of the content being described, does not
attempt
to incorporate success criteria such as "what the author thinks is
appropriate" into the checkpoint, and allows for success criteria to be
provided as well as additional techniques to be offered.
Cheers
Charles
I would like to object to 4.1 (and 4.2) - write as clearly and simply as
author feels appropriate for the content
I would prefer that the checkpoint is omitted entirely.
As it stands a site that is entirely inaccessible to people in terms of
conforms to 4.1 can claim conformance to 4.1.
This will serve to confuse people as to what sites are and are not
accessible to them
I also feel that "as appropriate for content " is offensive as most
people
are not thinking in terms of linguistic art, but in terms of abilities.
In other words people will assume that WCAG thinks that there is content
were people with severe cognitive disabilities could not understand. I
prefer such a checkpoint should not be written
Thanks
Lisa
134 136
38
78 22
Location: 21 Mitchell street FOOTSCRAY Vic 3011, Australia
(or W3C INRIA, Route des Lucioles, BP 93, 06902 Sophia Antipolis Cedex,
France)
134 136
78 22
Location: 21 Mitchell street FOOTSCRAY Vic 3011, Australia
(or W3C INRIA, Route des Lucioles, BP 93, 06902 Sophia Antipolis Cedex,
France)
I have also heard it argued that there are few genuine synonyms in
English (this may or may not be true of other languages), with the
result that substituting one word for another almost always changes
the meaning. The effects of this may be limited by context, of course.
It is usually a matter of degree as to how well one sentence can be
said to express the same meaning as another.
We still haven't analysed in much detail the relevance of audience to
the success criteria. Most writing is produced in a social context,
with certain assumptions made regarding its purpose and audience. I
think everyone in this working group agrees that for the purposes of
accessibility it would be better if these assumptions were made
consciously, with awareness of disability-related issues, rather than
only in a haphazard, ill-informed manner. The author also needs to be
satisfied that the text is written in accordance with whatever
assumptions have been made, and exhibits whatever qualities are most
conducive to clarity and simplicity.
One way of framing the success criteria, as in the current draft, is
to specify an "assurance requirement" as the main success criterion -
the author must be satisfied that only appropriate assumptions have
been made, that within these assumptions the text has the qualities
appropriate to both simplicity and clarity, and that the
purpose/audience-related assumptions have been given due
consideration, instead of being made implicitly.
The advisory information following the checkpoint would specify what
factors should be taken into account.
At the next level, the requirements could be more constraining, for
example that links be provided to background material and other
(easier to read) content on the same subject, or that a simpler
overview be provided, or that metadata characterizing the subject
matter of the content be included, etc. Note the overlap with the
checkpoint that discusses summaries and definitions.
