Hi Nikki,
I completely agree.
So now I think nodes types as 'soks:Concept' should NOT be allowed to have a
language property. ONLY the labels should be allowed to have a language
property/tag.
Representing non-exact equivalence relationships between concepts derived
from different languages is then covered by whatever we end up doing for
inter-thesaurus concept mapping.
This does have consequences for constraining the data model. It means a
node typed as a 'soks:Concept' must then be allowed to have multiple
'soks:descriptor' properties, one for each language. Is it then possible in
OWL to express the constraint that a concept may have one and only one
'soks:descriptor' property for each language? If not, can we live with
this?
Al.
[mailto:Nikki.Rogers@bristol.ac.uk]
indepe ndent, or both?
Hi Alistair
My philosophical angle on this is:
Human society distinguishes itself from (the rest of) animal society by its
reification of abstract concepts, done primarily via language. So the
concepts don't come from the language, they exist independently - languages
evolve in the attempt to articulate human understanding of abstract
concepts. Different languages have evolved over time of course, and have
much in common, but also some languages have sought to reify concepts that
other languages don't, and so on...
Coming back to the question of a pragmatic solution to modelling
multilingual data: I tend towards Option 2, but then I've not experimented
with much 'real' data, so you might want to give me some illustrative
counter examples.
Is it not the case that the *concepts* being reified by one language can be
mapped - partially or otherwise - to concepts being reified in another
language? And if there are "missing" concepts for some languages then
that's ok? i.e. is it possible to always map thesauri at the conceptual
level as opposed to at the 'label' level? I know this means deriving
concept hierarchies from thesauri from thesauri that don't have this
explicit - but I thought that was what we were aiming for anyway?
I guess we should continue the discussion on the wiki ...
Nikki
--On 31 October 2003 17:31 +0000 "Miles, AJ (Alistair) "
I've added this issue to the discussion on the RDF Thesaurus wiki page
http://esw.w3.org/topic/RdfThesaurus
Here is a summary:-
Issue 4 - Concepts as language-embedded, language independent, or both?
There are multilingual thesauri. When modelling multilingual data in RDF,
we can choose one of the following options:
Option 1: Concepts in a language - allow language properties only on nodes
typed as Concepts.
Option 2: Labels in a language - allow language properties (or tags) only
on nodes (or literals) which represent labels.
Option 3: And/or - allow concepts and/or labels to have language
properties.
The choice of solution has bold implications. If we choose option 1 we are
assuming that all abstract concepts are embedded in a language; there can
be no language independent concepts. If we choose option 2 we can model
only concepts that are deemed to be 'language-independent'. If we choose
option 3 we can represent both language-embedded and language-independent
concepts, however there may be some considerable scope for confusion.
... more at http://esw.w3.org/topic/RdfThesaurus
CCLRC - Rutherford Appleton Laboratory
Building R1 Room 1.60
Fermi Avenue
Chilton
Didcot
Oxfordshire OX11 0QX
United Kingdom
NJ Rogers, Technical Researcher
(Semantic Web Applications Developer)
Institute for Learning and Research Technology (ILRT)
Only if you represent content-in-a-specific-language as a class, which
would mean having a different class and different cardinality constraint
for every language. Which probably wouldn't be workable.
But in any case you need to add the qualifier "in any given conceptual
scheme". That definitely makes expressing the cardinality constraint in OWL
unworkable.
Dave
Hi Alistair and Dave,
I've been trying to consider some options here:
1. throw out the 'descriptor' cardinality constraint for multilingual
thesauri (as well as for/as distinct from monolingual thesauri?) and don't
worry about it - live with it, &amp; provide recommendation of use
instead.
2. model multilingual thesauri in a specific way: express each language's
interpretation of a concept uniquely by giving the same concept different
uri's in each of the languages in question. Then map the concepts (using
"owl:equivalentTo"). That way we could still specify exactly 1 preferred
label/'descriptor' per concept. Does it upset us to give different uri's to
what certain communities believe to be the same concept? I guess how
inferencing is then conducted over the thesaurus data (for queries) is then
critical &amp; I haven't thought about this in any depth. Therefore I'm not
sure if this approach is currently "legal".
3. Subclass 'soks:Concept' with what we'd understand to be concepts in the
context of a particular language. I think this is similar to what Dave is
referring to? And yes, it feels cranky:
e.g.
'soks:Concept'
'soks:English_concept'
Then we'd potentially have multiple properties (e.g.
soks:english_language_concept, soks:japenese_language_concept etc.) hanging
off any one 'soks:Concept' in a thesaurus schema.
[I guess 'soks:english_language_concept' has domain 'soks:Concept' and
range 'soks:English_concept' ....]
Using this approach, we can keep the cardinality constraint = 1 for
'soks:descriptor' properties (because there would be one for each of
'soks:English_concept', 'soks:Japenese_concept', etc)?
[I suppose 'soks:English_concept' could be further subclassed for
American_english etc.]
However, typically, one then feels that further constraints are now
required to protect data integrity. Such as a constraint that the
'descriptor' property value for any [Language]_concept must be in the same
language as that [Language]_concept bla bla.
Hmmm ... :-)
Nikki
NJ Rogers, Technical Researcher
(Semantic Web Applications Developer)
Institute for Learning and Research Technology (ILRT)
