In regards to: 10.2. Explicitly associate labels with their control.
It is problematic to require people to associate LABELs with
INPUT TYPE=SUBMIT buttons and BUTTONs primarily because these
controls often have no text to associate with them. Should
we be requiring empty LABELs or none at all?
There is also the sly INPUT TYPE=HIDDEN which shouldn't
be required to have a LABEL associated with it.
Josh Krieger
Do you think that if a control does not have a label that an author might
create one to satisfy the recommendation? If so, we might want to include
a submit button with out a label in the example and follow it with a
statement along the lines of:
This guideline does not apply to controls that do not have labels such as
submit buttons and hidden controls.
(or in the positive: This guideline only applies to controls that have
labels and not to controls such as submit buttons and hidden controls).
However, since we don't require every control to have a label, it might not
be a problem. it's perfectly clear to me smile
thoughts?
--wendy
wendy chisholm
human factors engineer
trace research and development center
university of wisconsin - madison, USA
By labels do you mean the label tag? Buttons by definition have labels,
the text inside of them. TYPE=IMAGE buttons can have ALT text.
Charles Oppermann
Program Manager, Active Accessibility, Microsoft Corporation
mailto:chuckop@microsoft.com mailto:chuckop@microsoft.com
http://microsoft.com/enable/ http://microsoft.com/enable/
"A computer on every desk and in every home, usable by everyone!"
Do you think that if a control does not have a label that an
author might
create one to satisfy the recommendation? If so, we might
want to include
a submit button with out a label in the example and follow
it with a
statement along the lines of:
This guideline does not apply to controls that do not have
labels such as
submit buttons and hidden controls.
(or in the positive: This guideline only applies to
controls that have
labels and not to controls such as submit buttons and hidden
controls).
However, since we don't require every control to have a
label, it might not
be a problem. it's perfectly clear to me smile
thoughts?
--wendy
control.
with
these
wendy chisholm
human factors engineer
trace research and development center
university of wisconsin - madison, USA
yes, we're discussing the label element and explicitly associating it with
its control.
for example, text input fields (example given in guidelines).
the problem we are trying to avoid is confusing authors so that they create
a label to associate with
a button. This would be a problem since, as you pointed out, a button
implicitly has a label that
is displayed on its face (its "name"). A button could also have alt-text
associated with it. Thus, it
is not necessary for an author to create a label and associate it with a
button.
we need to ensure that the guidelines are not misleading and authors don't
create extra work
for themselves.
--wendy
wendy chisholm
human factors engineer
trace research and development center
university of wisconsin - madison, USA
