PNG Transparency does not seem to be working. Example page is
background is trandparent in Mozilla.
Also, the W3C part of the W3C HTML 4.0 logo appears incorrect. It shows
as having a dark blue background, but it should be red.
To enter a quotation mark, I must press the quotation mark key twice.
Multi-imbedded lists do not cycle marks. Testcase is at bottom of
The W3C images in the Test Suites column appear to be stretched.
The underlines on links at
lower than the underline for the rest of the line.
The alternate stylesheet is unavailable for
enable/disable stylesheet lists.
To enter a quotation mark, I must press the quotation mark key twice.
this might be because multi-key is enabled?
The underlines on links at
lower than the underline for the rest of the line.
Oh, cool. I hate underlined text that isn't a link, because underlining is
one of the best-established presentation conventions on the web, and much
more useful than guessing where there is a link, so being able to tell what
is a link even when things are underlined sounds to me like a feature.
Cheers
Chaals
GIF transparency doesn't work either.
Example page: http://www.oxnardcc.org/committees/curriculum/; the condor
image in the upper left corner has a transparent, not white, background,
and should blend smoothly with the light blue background rather than being
displayed in a whitish square. Other images on the page exhibit the same
problem, although the condor makes the problem the most obvious. Compare
the rendering with that of the same page in IE 5 or 6, Mozilla 0.9 or 1.0,
or Opera 5 or 6. It probably works properly in Netscape 4.x, too, but I
haven't tested it.
Also note (at least in Win98SE) the slight misalignment of the second
column of the main layout table. The blue-dot bullets are supposed to be
just to the right, not the left, of the vertical blue/white boundary in the
upper portions of the page. Again, comparison of the rendering with one of
the browsers listed above will show the original intent.
--MB
It works with the GTK version and the OpenGL version.
With Motif and Win32 versions with supports only a subset of PNG
transparencies.
As the future is to use OpenGL, we won't spend time to improve these
implementations.
Where?
That is not under the control of Amaya. I have the same problem with
other applications on the Windows platform where the problem occurs.
Bug not detected by the team either on a Windows platform nor on a Unix
platform.
Yes the alternate stylesheet is not supported yet.
I have attached a screenshot of this. It seemed to appear okay in the
GL version.
Only the GL version supports 255 level of aplha and blending.
GTK only has one aplha level (due to imlib limitation)
Motif and WIN32 (GDI) may only have one level of 'alpha' = only if the background an uniform color.
As Opengl is going to be the main version, we do not plan to code alpha levels management for others version.
(And we'll need any bug report on this version before making it the main version, including graphic card vendor)
-Paul
Yes, the handling of the alpha channel is too limited in the non-GL version.
Irene.
