Dear Consortium!
You stand for the Web internationalization, but how
can it be reached, if no support for my language is
available?
For example, I tried to validate my page (it was in
russian and the lang and xml:lang attributes were "ru"
which satnded for Russian)
but the validator said to me it is an "invalid
language"! Is it?
In addition, I have found that the translations page
(http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Translations) doesn't
have any information about Russian translations. You
have to check all the Recommendations in order to find
a specification in Russian (don't say it is just in
progress, some pages are available).
Could you fix these problems please?
Thank you in advance.
Alexander "Croll" Crollev.
Do You Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Photos - Share your holiday photos online!
[ Note: The former part of this message would be more appropriate for
the www-validator list rather than the w3c-translators list, so I'm
moving to www-validator ]
Could you show us which page you were trying to validate?
Although internationalization/multilingualization/localization support
in the validator is still rather weak, I don't think "language" is
that relevant, as far as SGML/XML validation is concerned. At least,
the validator doesn't check the validity of language codes, as far as
I know.
Character encoding would be more relevant to perform the correct
validation, and I suppose the validator can validate documents
encoded in ISO-8859-5 (by chance), but will not work well with
documents encoded in KOI8-R, windows-1251 or KOI8-U. Which
character encoding are you using for your page?
"Add support for more character encodings" is among the to-do list
for the validator, and I hope this will be improved soon (as some
people have already provided patches for this ...).
cf. http://validator.w3.org/todo.html
Regards,
Masayasu Ishikawa / mimasa@w3.org
W3C - World Wide Web Consortium
Please note that "by language" lists at
http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Translation/#Language are not
comprehensive; those are mostly maintained by volunteers in W3C
Offices or host institutions, e.g. a list of German translations
is maintained by folks at W3C German Office. We are sorry that
we don't have an Office in Russia (yet).
Regards,
Masayasu Ishikawa / mimasa@w3.org
W3C - World Wide Web Consortium
If the status of some translations is not up to date,
that's either because the progress has not been reported
or because the report has been lost somehow.
According to the Copyright FAQ, each completed translation
has to be reported to this mailing list. You can easily
check whether that has been done by checking the mailing
list archive. If the translation hasn't been reported,
please try to make sure that it gets reported as soon as
possible.
If it has already been reported, then we apologize
for not having made the update. In that case, just
send a mail to this list with a pointer to the original
mail in the archive, and we will follow up quickly.
As for a page that lists all the Russian translations (or all
the translations in some other language for which we don't
yet have a page), if somebody wants to volunteer to put up
such a page, please contact me personally, so that we can
work on the details.
Regards, Martin.
