EOWG:
This updated agenda includes links to documents for discussion.
Time: 8:30am - 10:30am US Eastern Time
Bridge: +1.617.761.6200
conference code EOWG# (3694#)
AGENDA:
1. Outreach updates (brief)
- please send to EOWG mailing list in advance when possible
2. EOWG Charter renewal
- review replaced deliverables section in draft charter
3. WAI Site Task Force of EOWG, for Web site redesign
- brief discussion of task force formation
- draft task force statement:
4. Presenting the Case for Web Accessibility
- discuss revised Overview page:
- some notations on changes made:
- old version of Overview page for reference:
Reminder: IRC (Internet Relay Chat) Channel
- used only to accompany, not replace, EOWG teleconference discussion
- channel: #eo
- server: irc.w3.org
- port: 6665
Regards,
Shawn &amp; Judy
Judy Brewer +1.617.258.9741 http://www.w3.org/WAI
Director, Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI), World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)
MIT/LCS Room NE43-355, 200 Technology Square, Cambridge, MA, 02139, USA
I've been reading and trying to rewrite this document
It occurs to me that what we actually want is one unified standard, right?
Not a series of seperate but harmonized standards. I suggest that it might
be better to talk of unification rather than harmonisation. I don't think it
comes across in the document. I realise that we don't want to brazenly claim
that WCAG is the one and only true standard, but perhaps we can say
unification and still be diplomatic. I'm also wondering about using
"divergence" instead of "fragmentation."
My work so far is at:
I've dived into it where inspiration hit me, at the end of the introduction,
but the changes are clearly marked with ins and del .
I think it could be more readable if we assume that after a couple of
paragraphs the context is clear, and find a way to substitute phrases like
"standards harmonization" and "web accessibility" with something shorter
(like "it" or "this").
regards to all,
Alan Chuter
Fundosa Teleservicios, S.A.
achuter@teleservicios.com
I mean I'm commenting on it and rephrasing it, not rewriting it, of course.
Alan
it
claim
introduction,
