WAI EOWG:
Please review the draft technical reference Note on SMIL accessibility
features http://www.w3.org/WAI/EO/NOTE-smil-access-19990726 . It is also
under review by the SYMM WG. Please send comments back to this list
w3c-wai-eo@w3.org , keeping the same cc's as this message, before the EOWG
meeting this Friday July 30, if possible.
EOWG looked at an earlier version of this months ago; it's changed a lot
since then and we would like to publish this a.s.a.p., so this is just a
check to ensure no serious problems.
Thanks,
Judy
Judy Brewer jbrewer@w3.org +1.617.258.9741 http://www.w3.org/WAI
Director, Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI) International Program Office
World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)
MIT/LCS Room NE43-355, 545 Technology Square, Cambridge, MA, 02139, USA
Just in case you want typo, etc. stuff:
There's a gratuitous comma at "...formats such as smil 1.0,..."
There's a superfluous "an" before "refreshable Braille"
If we are to be consistent, I think elements and attributes should have
some differences in font characteristic "...attributes such as the _alt_
attribute and the _img_ element" might use different markup than italics
for both.
In 2.1 the phrase "...following attributes" implies a series to follow
which is not the case.
I will continue this sort of proofing if it's time to do so, I dunno??
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
here are some comments and just got back form vacation land....
1. i would like to see pictorial or GIF examples alongside the code.
2. would like to see a simpler explanation. Many people are going to be
drawn to this because SMIL is starting to get HOT! would a executive
summary or purpose be appropriate to tell people in one section "why they
need this and what it can do for them"
3. I would like to see a pictoral and word flowchart that describe how smile
file are used and their components. For example, what are the required
files and what is the directory structure. Not sure what can be done
without aligning the content with a company (does the file structure differ
form vendor to vender?). Geoff, one of the biggest problems I had when we
used it here was trying to make sense of the different files and where they
needed to be placed)
4. If i want to make a presentation with the video description, how is this
to be added...on another track.
5. I have more notes that i made on the airplane, but need to unpack to
find them...
6. In the sentence, "Dynamic multimedia presentations differ from less
dynamic pages in some important ways that affect their accessibility to
people with disabilities:" reword to "Dynamic multimedia presentations
affect accessibility" not sure what "differ from less dynamic pages in some
important ways" adds to this? Less dynamic pages are not explained anywhere
and i found myself caught up in this...
7. need visual examples of discrete and stream.. can we give examples of
how SMIL can be used?
8. file extensions RM and RTX are used without explanation. are there more
extensions? See item 3
good night?
Reply to: RE  Please review Note on SMIL accessibility features
Ian said...
It would be nice to link to a demo to show what we mean. Does
anyone have a demo handy that we can put on the W3C Web site?
I've got several SMIL demos showing captions, subtitles and descriptions. You can see one at
Follow the directions on the Web page for switching between English and German. You can also download this movie (CAR.ZIP) from
ftp.wgbh.org/incoming/ncam
Sorry this clip isn't available in streaming form (which is the whole point of SMIL). We don't have a G2 server set up yet.
Geoff.
Date: 8/4/99 10:09 AM
From: Ian Jacobs
While I agree that images or illustrations may help explain some
features, will static images convey the dynamic issues we are
discussing? Can you say a word about what you would like to see
in images?
While an "executive summary" would be useful, that is not the
role of this particular piece. This one is meant for developers
(to understand what features to implement) and authors
who are not necessarily using authoring tools to produce SMIL.
I don't believe that this is an accessibility issue. This would
be appropriate for a general SMIL tutorial or FAQ and I'm sure
that a tutorial would help all audiences. However, including
this level of detail in this Note might dilute the accessibility
points we hope to communicate.
Marja and I will discuss this.
I suggest looking near the shaving kit. wink
The goal of the sentence was to juxtapose static pages (a la HTML)
from
more dynamic pages (a la SMIL). However, in editing, we lost the
context that justified this transition. We'll clean it up.
It would be nice to link to a demo to show what we mean. Does
anyone have a demo handy that we can put on the W3C Web site?
Ok, we'll clarify.
Thank you for the comments Robert,
_ Ian
Ian Jacobs (jacobs@w3.org) http://www.w3.org/People/Jacobs
------------------ RFC822 Header Follows ------------------
Received: by wgbh.org with ADMIN;4 Aug 1999 10:00:46 +0100
Received: from w3.org (ibjacobs.dialup.access.net [166.84.254.4])
by mail1.panix.com (Postfix) with ESMTP
id EF96B4EF; Wed, 4 Aug 1999 09:46:05 -0400 (EDT)
Sender: ian@panix.com
Message-ID: 37A84562.1B21F4BD@w3.org
Date: Wed, 04 Aug 1999 09:51:30 -0400
From: Ian Jacobs ij@w3.org
Organization: W3C - World Wide Web Consortium
X-Mailer: Mozilla 4.6 [en] (X11; I; Linux 2.2.5-15 i586)
X-Accept-Language: fr,it
MIME-Version: 1.0
Geoff Freed Geoff_Freed@wgbh.org ,
Madeleine Rothberg Madeleine_Rothberg@wgbh.org , marja@w3.org,
ij@w3.org
Subject: Re: Please review Note on SMIL accessibility features
References: 3.0.5.32.19990727155147.00b1eca0@localhost 001201bede47$686a6500$64520518@alex1.va.home.com
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
While I agree that images or illustrations may help explain some
features, will static images convey the dynamic issues we are
discussing? Can you say a word about what you would like to see
in images?
While an "executive summary" would be useful, that is not the
role of this particular piece. This one is meant for developers
(to understand what features to implement) and authors
who are not necessarily using authoring tools to produce SMIL.
I don't believe that this is an accessibility issue. This would
be appropriate for a general SMIL tutorial or FAQ and I'm sure
that a tutorial would help all audiences. However, including
this level of detail in this Note might dilute the accessibility
points we hope to communicate.
Marja and I will discuss this.
I suggest looking near the shaving kit. wink
The goal of the sentence was to juxtapose static pages (a la HTML)
from
more dynamic pages (a la SMIL). However, in editing, we lost the
context that justified this transition. We'll clean it up.
It would be nice to link to a demo to show what we mean. Does
anyone have a demo handy that we can put on the W3C Web site?
Ok, we'll clarify.
Thank you for the comments Robert,
_ Ian
Ian Jacobs (jacobs@w3.org) http://www.w3.org/People/Jacobs
Items 1 and 3 are somewhat inter-linked. The question is how much clarity
is needed? I tend to be a vrey visually oriented person and use the text to
define the process and the visual to aid in understanding.
I think screen shots would help you along to support the series if a car
changing positions or moving faster while some one talks.
I do not think this would dilute the process, but would help clarify the
points by using screen shots.
Geoff_Freed@wgbh.org ; Madeleine Rothberg Madeleine_Rothberg@wgbh.org ;
be
they
smile
differ
we
they
this
some
anywhere
of
more
General comment:
Examples: I believe they should universally include the attribute title="..."
as is strongly encouraged (but not required) in the SMIL spec.
"This attribute offers advisory information about the element for which it is
set. Values of the title attribute may be rendered by user agents in a variety
of ways. For instance, visual browsers frequently display the title as a "tool
tip" (a short message that appears when the pointing device pauses over an
object).
'title
It is strongly recommended that all "region" elements have a "title" attribute
with a meaningful description. Authoring tools should ensure that no element
can be introduced into a SMIL document without this attribute.'
Also for region, root-layout, switch, par, seq, the media objects:
ref, audio, video, text, textstream, animation; and the link elements a and
anchor.
It is strongly recommended that all "par" elements have a "title" attribute
with a meaningful description. Authoring tools should ensure that no element
can be introduced into a SMIL document without this attribute.
It is strongly recommended that all "seq" elements have a "title" attribute
with a meaningful description. Authoring tools should ensure that no element
can be introduced into a SMIL document without this attribute.
Correction notations: _..._ addition X...X deletion
1. Intro Para 6
Part of the responsibility ... describe relationships XbetweenX _among_
tracks, ...
2.2 Last para: Below we discuss in more detail how to associate captions and
auditory descriptions with multimedia presentations in SMIL 1.0 in a manner
that allows XusersX _a user_ to control the presentation of the alternative
stream.
2.2.1 Captions
Example 1
Some browsers may recognize the short endtag of XML only if preceded by space.
I'd change all such to include that space.
Both examples:
have file suffixes rm and rtx
Unfamiliar to me, unlikely that ".rm" is appropriate for both audio and video.
2.2.3 Multilingual presentations and stream equivalents
In the following example, the TV news are offered in both Spanish and English.
If the user has the player configured to support both Spanish and overdubs, the
Spanish audio track will be rendered. Otherwise the second audio track of the
first switch element (the English audio track) will be rendered. Note that
since there is only one set of captions (in English), they will be rendered
when the user has configured the player to support captions. _This presumes
that English is the default lang, and that is the language of the caption._
4.0 Navigation and Linking Para 1
SMIL 1.0 includes a number of interesting linking features, including HTML-like
hyperlinks and image maps (as well as video maps). SMIL 1.0 also allows authors
to create time-dependent links that may
Xonly X
be active only at certain times during a presentation (as defined by the
author). To make these hyperlinks accessible, authors must provide textual
information and SMIL players should allow users to control the link rendering.
4.3 Useful Navigation Mechanisms
Example 2 refers to img three places. Add alt="..." to them.
Add spaces before " / " Fix the one that omitted the "/".
6. To Learn More about Accessibility and SMIL
Para 2. SMIL presumes CSS2; CSS alone is not enough.
Regards/Harvey Bingham
Thanks for helpful comments Harvey!
Here are my replies.
Marja
I agree in principle. At times it is difficult to know how the description
would be used in the UI e.g. with switch or par which are not objects
visible to users. So if someone has some scenarios of that it would help
when trying to write the titles.
variety
"tool
attribute
OK.
I prefer users.
space.
OK, if necessary.
video.
.rm real audio plugin
.rtx rich text
Most extensions come directly from SMIL examples but I'm not sure about
this one. The video could be changed to .mpg (Mpeg).
English.
overdubs, the
The default lang refers too much to user configured default lang which
could be Spanish as well. Here author only offers captions in one language
english independently of the user configured default lang.
HTML-like
authors
rendering.
OK.
OK.
I thought CSS is more general i.e. CSS1 or CSS2. If not, it can be changed.
On Fri, 6 Aug 1999, in response to Harvey Bingham's comments, Marja-Riitta
HB
space.
MRK
OK, if necessary.
CMN
A conforming XML rendering User Agent doesn't need the space. So I don't
think it's necessary
HB
video.
MRK
.rm real audio plugin
.rtx rich text
Most extensions come directly from SMIL examples but I'm not sure about
this one. The video could be changed to .mpg (Mpeg).
CMN
The values are for URIs, which need not have any file extension - the SMIL
specification explicitly requires the types to be declared rather than
assumed from either the element name or a filename extension. This is lucky -
.rpm is used both by files for the Real Media players and the RedHat Package
Manager. In this case the file extensions are standard ones, but they are not
at all important.
Charles McCN
I agree, images usually help me too. In addition to Rob's suggestions, it
would be nice to have images of the SMIL layout examples and maybe some
examples of how the user sees the test attributes in the player etc.
However, it would take still more time and maybe even some negotiation if
we selected one player and not the other etc.
At the moment I think that this document is more focused in the language
and we really need it out soon. Later we can make other documents based on
this for different purposes.
However, if I can easily find some good pictures to illustrate some points
I might add them to the document.
Marja
Here's an example:
Should we include the suffixes at all? I don't know
how SMIL players handle content negotiation,
but if possible, shouldn't we promote it?
Of course, we could still show examples
with suffixes, but indicate that content
negotiation is preferred.
- Ian
Ian Jacobs (jacobs@w3.org) http://www.w3.org/People/Jacobs
