Special thanks to Todd for cross-posting this
Piracy
The outline information in the PFR is encrypted to prevent piracy.
I think I've said this before, it took me 30mins to figure the decryption
method (that was just thinking time), once I'd figured it I "did" a font in
10mins, so much for that encryption.
Hackers
could conceivably crack the PFR's but they'd have to collect a lot of them
and do major tweakage in Fontographer before they could assemble a maybe
complete character set including redoing hinting, character mapping and
kerning (can you spell get a life?).
A few copy and pastes and you're there, even if you don't get a full set you're
going to get 90% of U&amp;lc from a smallish site, the whole set from a large one.
The amount of work is minimal compared to designing and digitising a font from
scratch.
Web designers need to recognize
the highly skilled work and long hours involved in creating quality
typefaces and support the artists who gain their livelyhood from this work
by buying type from reputable distributers, type designers and foundries.
I think this is the most telling thing that Andrew says. The fact that he has
to point it out is scarey enough.
The problem here as I see it is that TrueDoc pays no heed to embedding bits or
licensing, Bitstream constantly repeat the mantra "and developers you can be
confident that our technology using a non infringing data type and is
completely legal", fact is it isn't true.
Ok, it is true in the US, but only if a type design isn't covered by Design
Patent. It is illegal in many other countries including Canada, Australia, New
Zealand and most of Europe. Not only that, any foundry could change its
licensing agreement to specifically exclude conversion to TrueDoc.
If Bitstream could be persuaded to make TrueDoc obey embedding bits and
licensing hard coded into font formats then I think many of the foundries in
the world would have no problem with it. As long as they ride roughshod over
other people's rights then there will be friction.
Though if they did include embedding bit/code support TrueDoc would cease to be
a solution to anything.
Just for the record, Acrobat, as everyone knows, supports font embedding (and
has done since version 1.0), but Acrobat supports hard coding in fonts to
prevent embedding or force subsetting. Currently this will only work with PS
fonts, there doesn't seem to be a way of coding TT fonts.
TrueDoc "font resources" are no better optimised (size-wise) than
CFF/Type1c/Type2.
Some will dispute what I have written above, well go read the PDF
specification, then come back and tell me I'm wrong.
PDF on the web need be no larger than graphically rich HTML or FreeHand
generated Shockwave vector art (embedded PDF has the advantage over embedded
vector based Shockwave in that it actually prints, something Shockwave won't
do, at least on my system).
-- Clive
Fahrner quoting Andrew Joslin:
The outline information in the PFR is encrypted to prevent piracy. Hackers
could conceivably crack the PFR's but they'd have to collect a lot of them
and do major tweakage in Fontographer before they could assemble a maybe
complete character set including redoing hinting, character mapping and
kerning (can you spell get a life?). I think the labor involved and
difficulty in assembling COMPLETE coherent character sets will make font
pirating from PFR's a miserable occupation.
The same methods Truedoc uses to assemble a font these fonts can be
disassembled. Character collecting can easily be automated, especially
when the whole font machine is accessible by writing a Netscape-plugin
for it. Subsetting is a compression method, not a piracy preventer. Then
the whole security hinges on the encryption, which can be broken in 10
minutes, as Clive has proven.
This might not even be necessary when authoring software emerges that
allows Truedoc fonts that arrive from one webpage to be added to another
one. Recycling fontdata. Perhaps not all characters are present, but
perhaps not all are needed either. Current descriptions of
Truedoc/Netscape systems do not specify whether Truedoc fonts can be
re-used, neither do they promise that this will not be the case in the
future, neither is there a garantee that Truedoc will not be licensed to
companies with shady background in type.
The clever semantics of Bitstream are getting old. A file containing a
typeface description is a font by any standard. Calling the Truedoc fonts
'portable font resources' is a way of being gramatically correct when
saying Truedoc documents don't contain fonts. But lets not kid ourselves,
for all intents and purposes, PFR's are fonts. They're just as portable
as Truetype fonts or type1 fonts, and contain just as many curves and
serifs.
PFR relies on a Truedoc rasteriser being present on the client system,
just other fonts like to be rastered by their own rasterisers. There is
nothing remarkably portable about Truedoc, you still have to be in luck
that some company somewhere decides to write software for your platform.
Whether that's Microsoft, Adobe or Bitstream does not really matter.
Their approach to intellectual property does matter. Microsoft and Adobe
are at least trying to address the issues. Bitstream only invented a
blanket excuse to the entire system and ignores it for the rest. Note
that Bitstream has become yet another internet wannabe, and has severed
most ties to their typographic past. The legal issues tied to Truedoc in
most countries not USA will certainly be investigated and possibly tried
in court. It's curious that Netscape is getting tied up with such a risky
technology.
Bitstream has used the argument that Truedoc fonts are inseperable from
the document as a way to illustrate that the PFR's really are not fonts.
But this is losing credibility, as PFR fonts are now downloaded
_separately_ from a server 'just like a gif or jpeg'. That means that
unless something incredibly complicated (signatures?) happens, PFR fonts
can be linked to by any other document as well, perhaps from an entirely
different domain.
Then the world needs only one single PFR on a site for every typeface
used in the world! Subsetting this font can be easily subverted by making
a document that contains all characters. PFR fonts can be offered as
incentives, they can be traded, posted, mailed, reused. It's piracy
coated with a thin layer of credibility. Serious flaws that threatens all
type manufacturers.
As long as fonts cost money, there will be an incentive for getting them
for free. Truedoc fonts in Netscape make that a whole lot easier. Better
typographic capabilities for the web are quite necessary. But whether it
is worth to put the whole type industry at risk for a small temporary
advantage over someone else's browser is highly doubtful.
erik van blokland, LettError: Typestuff
letterror http://www.letterror.com
REMOV REMOVE REMOVE!!!!
: From: Erik van Blokland evb@KNOWARE.NL
: Subject: Embeddable fonts in Communicator
: Date: Thursday, February 20, 1997 1:48 PM
: Fahrner quoting Andrew Joslin:
:  The outline information in the PFR is encrypted to prevent piracy.
Hackers
:  could conceivably crack the PFR's but they'd have to collect a lot of
them
:  and do major tweakage in Fontographer before they could assemble a maybe
:  complete character set including redoing hinting, character mapping and
:  kerning (can you spell get a life?). I think the labor involved and
:  difficulty in assembling COMPLETE coherent character sets will make
font
:  pirating from PFR's a miserable occupation.
: The same methods Truedoc uses to assemble a font these fonts can be
: disassembled. Character collecting can easily be automated, especially
: when the whole font machine is accessible by writing a Netscape-plugin
: for it. Subsetting is a compression method, not a piracy preventer. Then
: the whole security hinges on the encryption, which can be broken in 10
: minutes, as Clive has proven.
: This might not even be necessary when authoring software emerges that
: allows Truedoc fonts that arrive from one webpage to be added to another
: one. Recycling fontdata. Perhaps not all characters are present, but
: perhaps not all are needed either. Current descriptions of
: Truedoc/Netscape systems do not specify whether Truedoc fonts can be
: re-used, neither do they promise that this will not be the case in the
: future, neither is there a garantee that Truedoc will not be licensed to
: companies with shady background in type.
: The clever semantics of Bitstream are getting old. A file containing a
: typeface description is a font by any standard. Calling the Truedoc fonts
: 'portable font resources' is a way of being gramatically correct when
: saying Truedoc documents don't contain fonts. But lets not kid ourselves,
: for all intents and purposes, PFR's are fonts. They're just as portable
: as Truetype fonts or type1 fonts, and contain just as many curves and
: serifs.
: PFR relies on a Truedoc rasteriser being present on the client system,
: just other fonts like to be rastered by their own rasterisers. There is
: nothing remarkably portable about Truedoc, you still have to be in luck
: that some company somewhere decides to write software for your platform.
: Whether that's Microsoft, Adobe or Bitstream does not really matter.
: Their approach to intellectual property does matter. Microsoft and Adobe
: are at least trying to address the issues. Bitstream only invented a
: blanket excuse to the entire system and ignores it for the rest. Note
: that Bitstream has become yet another internet wannabe, and has severed
: most ties to their typographic past. The legal issues tied to Truedoc in
: most countries not USA will certainly be investigated and possibly tried
: in court. It's curious that Netscape is getting tied up with such a risky
: technology.
: Bitstream has used the argument that Truedoc fonts are inseperable from
: the document as a way to illustrate that the PFR's really are not fonts.
: But this is losing credibility, as PFR fonts are now downloaded
: _separately_ from a server 'just like a gif or jpeg'. That means that
: unless something incredibly complicated (signatures?) happens, PFR fonts
: can be linked to by any other document as well, perhaps from an entirely
: different domain.
: Then the world needs only one single PFR on a site for every typeface
: used in the world! Subsetting this font can be easily subverted by making
: a document that contains all characters. PFR fonts can be offered as
: incentives, they can be traded, posted, mailed, reused. It's piracy
: coated with a thin layer of credibility. Serious flaws that threatens all
: type manufacturers.
: As long as fonts cost money, there will be an incentive for getting them
: for free. Truedoc fonts in Netscape make that a whole lot easier. Better
: typographic capabilities for the web are quite necessary. But whether it
: is worth to put the whole type industry at risk for a small temporary
: advantage over someone else's browser is highly doubtful.
: erik van blokland, LettError: Typestuff
: letterror http://www.letterror.com
To get off this mailing list, send an email to www-font-request with
"unsubscribe email address " in the message body. It's that easy.
Regards,
-h&amp;kon
H ? k o n W i u m L i e
howcome@w3.org W o r l d Wide W e b Consortium
inria ???#?? FRANCE http://www.w3.org/people/howcome
