Hello.
It's my first post: soon I will write my own short presentation, as
requested by Wendy. For now, I've in the mess with a redesign, and wish
to point out a problem with guideline 9 and checkpoint 9.3.
What if a event handler is used only as a feature useful, say, for
normal-sighted users? Like the feature of making something (as a
menu...) *disappear/re-appear in the page with a click*, only for visual
clearness
(and visible by default)? It must be considered a presentational
manipulation like changing color (changing visibility...), or I have to
insert an equivalent device-indipendent event handler? Equivalents are
not recognized by the browser I tested, anyway, and some of them are not
allowed by xhtml specs for that element (not an 'a').
I don't think the equivalent is necessary, 'cause the blind-sighted, as
example, do not take advantage by manipulating the visibility of the
element! It's not an important functionality, but a visual-only feature
for some users. Little more than a gadget... ;-)
My proposal is to better specify the requisite for event-handlers
device-indipendence in the guideline, including when and why, and some
example.
"...9.3 For scripts, specify logical event handlers rather than
device-dependent event handlers. [Priority 2] "
should be:
"9.3 For scripts that trigger functionality useful to any category of
user (and/or not for presentational-only variations), specify logical
event handlers rather than device-dependent event handlers. [Priority 2]
(Ehm... It can be be improved, i guess...)
Please consider that very often scripts (DOM compliant, of course...
;-) ) are used in a variety of ways for creating some interaction
effect, that are not important for those who are unable to see the
effect, and even for those who can see they are not important (basic)
functionality.
What do you think?
Thanks for any opinion.
Maurizio Boscarol
PS: Different validators give different evaluations on this case... Some
rapair tools suggested even an invalid markup to solve the problem!...
Well, I think that your idea about onlly having useful things is a good one.
But there are lots of people who are sighted, but who use a keyboard instead
of a mouse to navigate. It might be even more useful to these people than
people who use a mouse, since many of them are really using some slow form of
interface that mimics a keyboard, so simplifying navigation is
extra-helpful...
In general it is difficult to identify combinations of disability taht do or
don't occur - as far as I can tell almost all combinations of requirements do
occur.
Cheers
Chaals
SWAD-E http://www.w3.org/2001/sw/Europe ---------------- WAI http://www.w3.org/WAI
W3C, 2004 Route des Lucioles, 06902 Sophia Antipolis Cedex, France
Hi Charles.
Intersting point!
I think that scripts can even be used to facilitate the interface
manipulation to some category of disabilities, with specific device
usage. Those who use the mouse don't need the same script aid for those
who use keyboard, and so on for many combinations. So the entire
question of 'device indipendent' event handler has to be revised? After
all, if some event handler is useful for those who use the mouse, it's
possible that it's not useful for others, and vice versa... It's no
content: it's interaction, and it depends on the cognitive, motorial and
sensorial abilities of the user. Everything has to be accessible. But
further (convenient? comfortable?) interaction is dependent by device
and abilities.
Should we talk more about 'device indipence'? Can we imagine web
interfaces that have different features for different devices, without
creating a barrier to content or functionality access (only a different
way of access: so, no need of equivalent - better: no *automatic* need
of equivalent: a human judge may help to evaluate case by case)?
Maurizio Boscarol
good one.
instead
than
form of
do or
requirements do
wish
visual
to
are
not
as
feature
some
2]
Some
problem!...
409 134 136
92 38 78 22
