Hi Dave,
I've translated the XHTML 1.0 Proposed Recomendation (1999/12/10) into
Spanish.
There are two possible URLs where you can give a look a tell if the W3C
gives its approval to the translation. I know it still is a Prop. Rec.,
but I think it is important to the Spanish speaking comunity to have an
idea of what's going on.
Thanks in advance,
Juan Luis Lara.
Sorry, I forgot to write down the URLs.
and
They just differ in the position of the images of the two logos.
If you send me stable URL, I will add a link.
Regards,
-- Dave Raggett dsr@w3.org http://www.w3.org/People/Raggett
World Wide Web Consortium (on assignment from HP Labs)
I notice that the W3C Proposed Recommendation background image is
missing from both locations. Would it be possible for you to fix
this? I am also unsure what the W3C's policy is on the use of the
W3C logo for translations. I am checking this with our
Communications team. The 2nd URL pointed to a broken document
when I viewed it.
Regards,
-- Dave Raggett dsr@w3.org http://www.w3.org/People/Raggett
World Wide Web Consortium (on assignment from HP Labs)
Hello Dave, Juan:
Using the W3C logo, directly from the W3C site, is okay if done
correctly. Please see the example at
referenced from the Copyright FAQ
However, there are a few other things that can and should
be improved:
- Please try to make sure that the 'W3C Proposed Recommendation'
icon starts at the same height as the actual translation,
not before.
- Please put the disclaimers on the translation (i.e. "(Los posibles
errores presentes en este documento"...) in the header before
the translation.
- Please add a sentence saying that the normative version of the
specification is the English version found at the W3C site.
- Please move all logos of translators to the header.
- Please make sure that all browsers know the character encoding
of the document. Please see
do that.
Regards, Martin.
#-#-# Martin J. Du"rst, World Wide Web Consortium
#-#-# mailto:duerst@w3.org http://www.w3.org
Hello Dave, Martin:
This has been fixed.
This has been fixed.
There was a sentence saying that in the translation(in red). Now another
sentence has been added to the header.
Done.
Done.
Please, check it at
and
the fixed version of the translation in one or two days)
Regards,
Juan.
Regards,
