can anyone tell me how it is that I frequently get oof replies long before I
see the message I posted?
jonathan chetwynd
on the web"
learning difficulty get the most from the web"
A message from you goes:
You -- Server -- Everyone
The first loop, the out-of-office loop, goes like this:
You -- Server -- Someone else -- You
The second loop, your own copy of what you posted, goes:
You -- Server -- You
Now, the tricky part is that the transmission from Server --
Everyone might not happen instantly. For example, if you are
at the bottom of the distribution list, and I'm at the top, I
might get my mail long before you get yours.
An illustrative timeline:
:00 Jonathan sends email to the list.
:01 Jonathan's email is received by the server. The list server
starts sending out copies to everyone on the list.
:02 Kynn's name, 3rd on the list, is reached, and email is sent
to Kynn. The server continues on down the list of subscribers.
:03 Kynn's server receives the email. Kynn's "out of office"
program sends email directly to Jonathan.
:04 Jonathan's mail host receives Kynn's "out of office" email.
:07 The list server, continuing to send email, gets down to
Jonathan's address, near the end. It sends a copy to him.
:08 Jonathan receives his own copy of the email.
:10 The list server finishes sending copies out.
That's just one way it could happen. Another way is that email
delivery between points on the internet is not a constant amount
of time; it varies a lot depending on speed of connection and
network traffic. So another scenario could be:
Jonathan sends his email to the server. It takes 5 seconds to
get there. The server holds on to it for some amount of time
(see above) and then sends it out again. It takes 1 second to
deliver the email to Kynn. And it takes 2 seconds for a message
to go from Kynn to Jonathan. So it arrives in 3 seconds, while
Jonathan's copy took 5 seconds to reach him.
The two scenarios aren't incompatible -- and in fact, both are
likely at work here. To factor the second scenario into the
first, you just have to adjust the timeline for the amount of
time it took to transmit the message. In the first scenario,
the transmission time is assumed to be a constant 1 second
instead of a variable amount.
--Kynn
Kynn Bartlett kynn@idyllmtn.com
Yeah great Kynn
bar one thing.
I sent a reply to Cynthia and the list at 20:43
I got a reply from her at 21:27
My posting has not yet reached me at 22:10
I sometimes even go and look at the archives, just to make sure I'm still in
my tree....
see my point now?
btw I have done a search for 'snippet' and it is not on my HD.
Am I the only one, or does everyone have this problem...
thanks
jonathan chetwynd
on the web"
learning difficulty get the most from the web"
