On a thread on the WCAG working group mailing list, I raised the issue of
the state of Texas interpreting WCAG 1.0 as being guidelines for access
by people with visual disabilities (thread:
Texas policy: http://www.dir.state.tx.us/standards/S201-12.htm).
The concern is that needs of people with disabilities who are _not_
blind may be forgotten by those making policies or interpreting the
WCAG guidelines.
But it also raises an intriguing question -- are the guidelines slanted
toward championing the needs of certain disability types over other
types of disabilities? (Yes, I know some of you believe this already,
hi Anne.)
So I did number crunching. Here's my methology:
1. I made an spreadsheet and listed each WCAG 1.0 checkpoint.
2. I made one column for each of several broad disability types:
(a) Blind (defined: unable to see visual information)
(b) Color-Blind (defined: unable to reliably distinguish colors)
(c) Limited Vision (defined: can see but not well; may need
large fonts or magnifiers)
(d) Deaf (or hard of hearing; defined: cannot hear sounds reliably)
(e) Low Dexterity (defined: unable to use a pointing device and instead
must use keyboard or switch)
(f) Low Comprehension (defined: having problems understanding
content, textual or otherwise)
(g) Low Reading (defined: having problems reading text)
(h) Epilepsy (defined: may be subject to epileptic episodes)
3. I went through each checkpoint and recorded whether or not the
checkpoint applied to that disability type.
4. Some checkpoints were listed as "all", while others were listed as
"did not clearly apply to specific disabilities."
5. Sums and percentages were produced.
(Obviously, there is much potential in error in the above; for example,
you could choose to use different disability types (or definitions), or
you could assign applicability in different ways. If you are doubtful
of my figures, I urge you to try the analysis yourself to see what
numbers you might get.)
Here are my findings on WCAG 1.0:
Blind: 70.8%
Color Blind: 10.8%
Low Vision: 23.1%
Deaf: 9.2%
Low Dexterity: 20%
Low Comprehension: 24.6%
Low Reading Skills: 21.5%
Epilepsy: 7.7%
N/A: 10.8%
This tends to show a trend -- "bias" is a loaded word -- supporting
the idea that visually impaired users are highly promoted within WCAG
1.0. One of the reasons for this is that access by people with visual
disabilities is relatively well-understood and there is a long history
of activism on web to promote those interests. It's also attributable
to the fact that much of the assistive technology used on the web for
output is designed for people with visuam impairments. (AT used for
_input_ is more common among people with dexterity limitation.)
Now, something more interesting to look at is the priority system of
WCAG 1.0. Here's how that breaks down:
Priority One:
Blind: 81.25%
Color Blind: 18.75%
Low Vision: 25%
Deaf: 25%
Low Dexterity: 12.5%
Low Comprehension: 12.5%
Low Reading Skills: 18.75%
Epilepsy: 12.5%
N/A: 0%
Priority Two:
Blind: 63.3%
Color Blind: 10%
Low Vision: 30%
Deaf: 3.3%
Low Dexterity: 16.7%
Low Comprehension: 26.7%
Low Reading Skills: 16.7%
Epilepsy: 6.7%
N/A: 13.3%
Priority Three:
Blind: 73.7%
Color Blind: 5.3%
Low Vision: 10.5%
Deaf: 5.3%
Low Dexterity: 31.6%
Low Comprehension: 31.6%
Low Reading Skills: 31.6%
Epilepsy: 0%
N/A: 15.8%
It's interesting to note the distribution here -- it implies that if
you choose only "single-A" accessibility, you are primarily meeting
needs of blind users, while "double-A" provides a broader range, and
"triple-A" an even wider cross-section especially among people with
limited input ability and cognitive impairments.
Why is this? (As a diversion: It's NOT because people on the working
group are biased.) Most likely it is because blindness issues are,
for lack of a better term, more "black and white". They are either "do
or do not, there is no try."
On the other hand, the types of considerations you need to make for
different audiences tend to be more vague, and really -are- of the sort
"try to do this" or "do as much as you can" or "make it better by doing
some of this."
Because of the way the WCAG 1.0 priority system is structured, this
promotes the needs of users who fit a "do or do not" scheme over the
needs of those users who fit a "try" scheme. This explains in part why
some disability types seem to be "more important" in WCAG 1.0.
Here is another set of numbers: These are the percentages of different
priority levels, for checkpoints which apply to each disability type.
Blind:
Priority 1: 28.3%
Priority 2: 41.3%
Priority 3: 30.4%
Color Blind:
Priority 1: 42.9%
Priority 2: 42.9%
Priority 3: 14.3%
Low Vision:
Priority 1: 26.7%
Priority 2: 60%
Priority 3: 13.3%
Deaf:
Priority 1: 66.7%
Priority 2: 16.7%
Priority 3: 16.7%
Low Dexterity:
Priority 1: 15.4%
Priority 2: 38.5%
Priority 3: 46.1%
Low Comprehension:
Priority 1: 12.5%
Priority 2: 50%
Priority 3: 37.5%
Low Reading Skills:
Priority 1: 21.4%
Priority 2: 35.7%
Priority 3: 42.9%
Epilepsy:
Priority 1: 40%
Priority 2: 40%
Priority 3: 20%
I hope this is informative and thought-provoking; my goals here are to
examine how things look and figure out why, and whether or not this is
something that needs to be considered as we work on future versions of
guidelines. Please note: THIS IS NOT AN INVITATION TO START DISABILITY
VS. DISABILITY FLAMEWARS. We are all on the same team here, even if we
represent different types of audiences, so let's not assume any malice
is at work in the way WCAG 1.0 was written.
--Kynn
Kynn Bartlett kynn@reef.com
Technical Developer Liaison
Reef North America
Accessibility - W3C - Integrator Network
BUSINESS IS DYNAMIC. TAKE CONTROL.
Dear Kynn,
Contrary to others who think your analysis might indicate that you have
too much time on your hands, I am delighted with what you have done. It
shows a true system approach to the real-world issues, going beyond the
purely technical or regulatory view. Thanks so much for this.
As you note, many of the blindness-oriented WCAG items are totally Boolean:
either
you support screen readers or you don't, for example. This kind of item is
easier to test for, easier to template for, easier to semi-automate.
Compare
it with the low vision items, which are so much more contextual and
subjective.
And they refer to the needs of a much larger number of people, many of whom
do not identify as having low vision. It brings us into the space between
accessibility and usability, where the metric is no longer "Can I do it at
all?" but "Can I do it for an hour without getting a headache?"
In my opinion, this is where 508 falls down so badly, both in comparison
with
WCAG and Section 255 of the Telecom Act. The latter two both emphasize high
usability with a corresponding additional effort needed for compatibility
with
assistive technology when usability is not enough. The former is having the
effect of putting too much attention on compatibility and not enough on
plain
usability. As we see states developing their own "508 plus" strategies by
taking usability into consideration, we may want to admit that 508 will have
to
be re-done, and begin planning for it.
Jim
Jim Tobias, President
Inclusive Technologies
tobias@inclusive.com
732.441.0831 v/tty
www.inclusive.com
In a message dated 08/24/2001 8:29:49 AM Eastern Daylight Time, kynn@reef.com
Much agreement; Disability vs. disability flamewars are bad. They also let
the true idiots confirm their impression of us; As whiny sniveling losers.
That ain't good, cuz the world has an idiot majority.
However, on the point of WCAG and AT being designed mostly for the
blind/visually imapired...
This is part history, part convenience. The convenience part is easy.
In most cases, either the blind use something (often after making
modifications that have me kicking myself and going "Why didn't I think of
that?" as I gape at the complexity), or they do not.
The history part is harder.
Historically, the blind were some of the earliest to organize to
advocate for themselves; In part it's because we (the blind and visually
impaired), at first, usully got pushed aside in favor of serving the deaf,
those that were physically handicapped, or similar. Why? Because blindness
was thought to be mostly an old age thing, with those born blind shuffled off
to boarding schools. So, by 1940 we have the National Federation for the
Blind among others, and the blind begin to organize to an extreme.
By 1970, I'd say, the blind had activism down really well. In
contrast, a lot of tmes, people just regarded those with cognitive or other
disabilities as freaks, good only for circus performances or similar. (OK, I
admit: That old short bus/special ed stereotype is one even *I* use now anf
then. And I *ride* one, so I mostly manipulate people with it. Or, frankly,
to get people to realize I ain't a freak.)
This shows even in technical guidelines. Blind kids were shuffled off
to their own little worlds. Able-bodied kids usually reject em cuz of their
blindness, so odd hobbies are kind of normal. Like screwing with the phone
system, most unusually. Twas blind kids that largely cracked Ma Bell back in
the 60s and 70s, I believe. That kind of "inuititive feel" for technology
isn't well known, nor normal, but most kids with visual impairments learn to
fiddle with things early on, cuz it's usually one of our only really possible
hobbies, in my experience. So there are quite a few blind people in tech
fields. Techies write the standards.
Meanwhile, when government sits down about 1990, and tries to make
itself accessible, who's organized and been waiting for the time when it'd
happen? The blind. The NFB has all the discipline of a communist party, and
they can get out the sympathy really well when they need to. Failing that,
they smack Congressmen with their canes.:-) (j/k) Meanwhile, the deaf and the
learning-disabled are just being really recognized as anything other than
mentally retarded. The organization hasn't happened yet in a large scale by
that point. So there's a lag in their concerns being addressed. That lag
remains.
Now if someone can get JAWS to quit sounding so inhuman when it
speaks, and recognize normal net verbiage, I'll be happy.
John
another group that is almost always ignored.
many people with attention def disorders (including some with
Epilepsy) must or should avoid the "Confusion" of a graphics site the
blinking and flashing and poping up and all the "Stuff" on the screen make
it difficult or impossible to use. a simple B&amp;W text screen is fully
usable but throw in colors and movement etc and the site becomes just a
"confused mess" or even worse could cause an epeleptic or other type of
reaction
sure this is always the case, that which is understood and has a vocal
support group gets the most attention (squeaky wheel syndrome)
no I found it quite interesting
most important is to find a standard or system that will work for most if
not all users.
Bob
/"\ ASCII Ribbon Campaign accessBob .-.
\ / NO HTML/PDF/RTF in e-mail accessys@smartnospam.net /v\
X NO MSWord docs in e-mail Access Systems, engineers // \\
/ \ NO attachments in e-mail equal access is a civil right /( _ )\
THIS message and any attachements are CONFIDENTIAL and may be
privleged. They are intended ONLY for the individual or entity named
above. If you are not the intended recipient, Please notify the sender as
soon as possible. Please DO NOT READ, COPY, USE, or DISCLOSE this
communication to others and DELETE it from your computer systems. Thanks
The problem with this sort of uncontrolled study is that it usually produces
results which have no bearing on reality. Experiment design is difficult,
and even the best scientists often discover too late that they have
forgotten to account for some variable.
There are many possible explanations for Kynn's results other than a bias
("trend" is a euphemism) in the WCAG. The most obvious is that Kynn may have
simply assigned checkpoints to categories of disability incorrectly. (Note:
I am referring here to a bias in the document, not in the people who created
that document.)
Assuming that Kynn got the split right, it is still possible (even likely)
that the difference is the result of differences in specificity. For
example, the 14 Aug 2001 draft of WCAG 2.0 specifies: Write as clearly and
simply as is possible and appropriate for the site's content. (checkpoint
3.3)
This could be broken out into more specific checkpoints:
1. Use commonly understood words.
2. If a word is not commonly understood, provide a definition.
3. Expand acronyms.
4. Use simple sentence structures.
5. Use examples.
6. Organize ideas into forms that make relationships between ideas clear.
7. Etc.
Assuming that these checkpoints are considered "cognitive disability"
checkpoints (a problem in itself since following the above will benefit
everyone), suddenly we've shifted the balance considerably without really
changing the content. A similar effect can be produced by reducing the
specificity of, say, blindness-related checkpoints.
In fact, that is what has occurred between WCAG 1 and WCAG 2. Checkpoints
are becoming more generic, less specific. This alone may account for the
apparent shift away from a bias toward blind and deaf users. I am currently
working on a new version of checkpoint 1.3 which would subsume 1.4. This
appears to further shift the balance, whereas in reality it is only a change
in wording.
Another possible explanation for Kynn's results is that the WCAG 1 was more
about code than content. This had nothing to do with specific disabilities,
it had to do with who was creating the guidelines: mostly programmers.
Programmers tend to think in terms of code. Therefore, most of the solutions
proposed had to do with code. Content was an afterthought. So if this is
true, it is not a matter of bias toward one or another disability, but of
bias toward code-related solutions. Code-based solutions tend to help users
who have trouble *getting to* the information. Content-based solutions tend
to help users who have trouble *comprehending* information.
There are plenty of other reasons why the numbers could come up the way
Kynn's did. I won't bore readers with more examples.
So what does this mean? It means that Kynn's experiment tells us NOTHING. We
can't use these results because we haven't designed the experiment properly,
and there may be serious problems with our results. If we depend on these
results in any way, we could be making a big error.
But the biggest problem with this sort of informal experiment is that it may
fool us into thinking that we DO know something. And that may send us off in
directions that do nothing to improve the guidelines. Ask yourself, aren't
you tempted to believe that the apparent bias toward some disabilities means
something? It's hard NOT to be affected by these sorts of results.
Worse, this sort of experiment gives support to partisanism. Those who would
advocate for only one group can use this to bash anyone who doesn't toe the
party line. Results like these give rise to "See, I told you so!" comments
and worse.
Here is what I recommend:
Instead of looking for bias in the WCAG, why don't we look for needs that
haven't been addressed? Has it occurred to anyone that it might take more
checkpoints to address the needs of one group than it does another? (Kynn
acknowledges this in his comments about photo-epileptics.) Who cares how
many checkpoints address this group or that group? This isn't a contest to
see whose is longer.
The real question is HAVE WE FAILED TO ADDRESS ANY NEEDS? If we have, then
please state the specific problem, and, if possible, some solutions.
SOLUTIONS ALONE DON'T CUT IT. It is not enough to say, We need more
pictures! We need to know why. Instead:
1. Name the specific disability or disabilities.
2. Describe how access is impaired or denied to persons with these
disabilities.
3. Suggest a solution.
4. Describe how this solution improves access for these persons.
You may also want to:
5. Mention any problems with implementation (such as cost, lack of
supporting technology, etc.)
6. Mention any potential conflicts with other checkpoints/techniques.
If the current WCAG 1/WCAG 2 draft do not fully address the needs of one or
more groups of people, then we need to know WHAT needs aren't being
addressed and HOW this problem can be rectified. If the WCAG 1/2 DO address
the needs of all users, then what difference does it make how many
checkpoints were needed to accomplish this?
Just my two cents.
Charles F. Munat
Seattle, Washington
Charles,
I think, before we go for all that, we need to educate developers
about the different AGs, and convince them to use them (never mind convincing
MS and other development tool writers to encourage them as well).
If that doesn't happen, hoiw well we write the standard won't matter.
John Penta
"[We] need to educate developers about the different AGs, and convince them
to use them (never mind convincing
MS and other development tool writers to encourage them as well).
"If that doesn't happen, [how] well we write the standard won't matter."
Reply:
Agreed. And for the IG list, this is a good goal. But for those creating the
guidelines, the need to promote accessibility and educate others is beyond
the scope of the task. There are many groups working to promote
accessibility and the rights of people with disabilities. Others, such as
the Education and Outreach group of the WAI, are working on educational
materials.
The Guidelines (GL) group is tasked to provide guidelines. How well they
write them matters quite a bit. It will do no good at all to convince people
to make their sites accessible if when asked "how?" we can't answer or our
answers make no sense.
We need all of the above if we're to make a real difference.
Sincerely,
Charles F. Munat
Seattle, Washington
That's why I encourage people who care about this to run their own
tests. ;)
Not necessarily. The most important thing is how it relates back to the
original spark of this discussion which was: People who have read the
guidelines have come away thinking that they're all about access for
blind people, and all about access by screenreaders. This is not just
a hypothetical case, or even anecdotal; you can find solid evidence which
says folks think "WCAG 1.0 is about blind people, or about blind people
primarily."
And just the same, it's hard not to read WCAG 1.0, which spends about
75% of the guideline space dealing with blindness issues, and not come
to the conclusion that accessibility is mainly about blind people.
See, it all actually does make sense -- the study of "how much column
space is spent on x " can let us know whether or not people who read
WCAG incorrectly are doing it because they're "just stupid or something"
and "didn't read carefully"; or, if perhaps when WCAG was written, the
authors didn't realize that the amount of space spent primarily on
screenreaders and blind people would lead to a lot of misinterpretation.
I think there's a value in examining not only WHAT we wrote, but how
we wrote it. You gave an example of splitting a "write clearly"
checkpoint into a half dozen, to elevate the importance of one group's
needs -- I think we need to consider whether or not that kind of
thing was (unconsciously) done before, producing an artificial
_apparent focus_ on one group.
The good news is that, as you say, WCAG 2.0 checkpoints are being
written more broadly, which will give a better sense, when someone
reads it, that we aren't just talking about people who can't see
pictures, but about everyone who faces artificial barriers to web
access.
That kind of analysis would be great. I would love to see it. ;)
[Especially about section 508.]
--Kynn
Kynn Bartlett kynn@reef.com
Technical Developer Liaison
Reef North America
Accessibility - W3C - Integrator Network
BUSINESS IS DYNAMIC. TAKE CONTROL.
True. But we didn't need to count the checkpoints to learn that. The Web
being primarily a visual medium, it is only natural that it will present
more problems for blind users than for others. If you want to do a count,
how about this one:
What percentage of sites are inaccessible to blind users?
What percentage of sites are inaccessible to deaf users?
What percentage of sites are inaccessible to people with motor impairments?
What percentage of sites are inaccessible to people with cognitive
disabilities?
And you can break it down more specifically if you like.
My guess is that if you did such a survey you'd find that most of the
accessibility problems on the Web are blindness related. These problem are
also the simplest to solve, and they involve code more than content.
It is perfectly understandable that people might think that accessibility is
all about making sites usable by the blind. But we already know that some
people think this, we don't need to start a checkpoint war to correct it, we
need to educate users. Pointing out that there are more checkpoints
concerned with accessibility to people with visual disabilities only
distracts from the real issue, which is *are there any accessibility needs
that we have failed to meet*? If no, then it is a simple matter of
education, of doing exactly the opposite of what this "study" does: pointing
out the checkpoints that address needs other than those of blind users.
But this ignores the possibility that 75% is appropriate. The question, as
I've mentioned several times already, is Are there needs that aren't being
addressed? If all needs have been addressed, then we simply need to educate
users. That can be accomplished in the introduction to the Guidelines. If
not all needs have been addressed, then what are the needs and how do we
address them? Specifics will get something done. Rushing about trying to
balance the number of checkpoints without regard for whether needs have been
addressed is a waste of time. (I'm not suggesting that Kynn advocates this,
only that it is a danger of this sort of "study.")
But you didn't look at how much column space was spent on blind user issues,
you looked at the number of checkpoints. Checkpoints address specific
problems. There should be as many or as few checkpoints as it takes to
address that problem, regardless of what people think. Where column inches
come into play is in the *Introduction*, and that is where we should be
focusing our attention. But we didn't need to count checkpoints to do this.
We could have simply said, "People appear to be getting the idea that the
Guidelines are all about helping blind people. We need to rewrite our
introduction to stress access for people with other disabilities as well."
Thus we could have accomplished the same thing, and avoided subjective
surveys that may create problems from credibility issues to outright
checkpoint wars. By doing such a survey, we imply that it *does* have
meaning, that the number of checkpoints per disability tells us something
when, absent controls, it tells us nothing more than the number of
checkpoints that address each disability. Frankly, this is useless
information unless you presume that such information *means* something
beyond the number itself. And that is where the danger lies.
I don't think we need to examine that at all. I think we need to examine
whether checkpoints are overly specific or overly general, and I think
that's exactly what we're doing with WCAG 2. I personally think that
Guideline 3 needs a serious rewrite (and I'm putting together a suggestion).
I also think that Guideline 1 can be simplified considerably (ditto). I
haven't even looked at Guidelines 2 and 4 yet. But the question shouldn't be
who gets how many checkpoints; it should be, Have we achieved the right
level of specificity?
Chas. Munat
