ACTION jos Review new document, particularly section 2.3.
1/ what I've been missing are
rdf:List
rdf:first
rdf:rest
rdf:nil
(resulting from rdf:parseType="Collection")
and all WD's should be upgraded for that
2/ 2.3 Meaning of RDF documents
I can't do better than Pat's comments made some time ago
Would you agree that 'received meaning' can be
characterized as the social meaning of any logical
consequences? That gives a clean characterization
which I think is what Tim is getting at. If you
publish a graph G and G entails G', and we interpret
G' using the same social conventions that everyone
agrees could be reasonably used to interpret G, then
you are asserting that content of G' as well.
Tim wants to prevent human publishers of RDF content
from wriggling out of their mechanically-inferred
social obligations; I want to be clear that the
machines doing the inference aren't expected to know
what all this human stuff is about.
which I agree with
Jos De Roo, AGFA http://www.agfa.com/w3c/jdroo/
ACTION jos Review new document, particularly section 2.3.
Thanks: the vocabulary list is being replaced with a reference to the
syntax document.
I agree too, and that's the general intent I'm trying to capture. But the
words as above aren't really appropriate for inclusion in a document (e.g.
references to what "Tim wants", etc.).
#g
Graham Klyne
that's right Graham, sorry for that
so what about following sentences
Using RDF, 'received meaning' can be characterized
as the social meaning of any logical consequences.
If you publish a graph G and G entails G', and we
interpret G' using the same social conventions that
everyone agrees could be reasonably used to interpret
G, then you are asserting that content of G' as well.
Human publishers of RDF content commit themselves
to the mechanically-inferred social obligations.
The machines doing the inferences aren't expected
to know what all those social conventions/obligations
are about.
Jos De Roo, AGFA http://www.agfa.com/w3c/jdroo/
Jos,
I like that... I've used that to improve and contract sections 2.3.3 and
2.3.4.
Thanks!
#g
Graham Klyne
