Hi,
I've recently started using Tidy and it's great. I have a simple
request. I'd like to be able to tell it to use a tab character for the
identing instead of it being hardcoded to " ". If you point me at the
right area in the code I'd be happy to take a look.
Thanks,
Mark Menard
Mark Menard VP &amp; CTO
mark@5points.net 5points.net, LLC
CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE:
This communication and any accompanying document(s) are confidential
and privileged. They are intended for the sole use of the addressee.
If you receive this transmission in error, you are advised that any
disclosure, copying, distribution, or the taking of any action in
reliance upon the communication is strictly prohibited. If you have
received this communication in error, please contact us by email at
confidential-error@5points.net, or by telephone at (518) 392-5505.
Thank you.
Please understand that I've never looked at the code before, and that I've only spent 2
minutes looking at it just now, but it seems to me pprint.c is where you want to go. Look
at functions WrapLine and WrapAttrVal and PFlushLine and ... Note the arg "indent" and how
it's used. I don't think the problem is as simple as you want (or should be. :-) Maybe you
could change all those to call a single function which "did the right thing", then fix that
function like you want? In your case, I think you want to print "indent/2" tabs, plus
"indent%2" spaces (unless you can guarantee indent is always even).
Perhaps someone more knowledgable about the code can add more.
HTH,
Kevin
I'll second that.
Cheers,
Morten
I don't quite see the put of using TABs.
The thing about spaces is that everyone knows what they are,
whereas outside the UNIX world (where a TAB is 8 columns, by fiat)
it's open slather. Tabs might be _anything_ from 1 column to 40 (and yes
I have seen 40-column tabs once). Even in the UNIX world, there are too
many people who think it's ok to use the TAB key in VI instead of using
VI's native indenting commands, with the result that their code is unusable
by anyone else.
If you really REALLY have to do this, you don't have to change Tidy.
Just pipe the output through "pr -t -iN" where N is the number of columns
per tab you think is the right amount. There are open source versions of
pr around, even for Windows.
