I'd like to propose a 4th option:
Address the easy questions first, and check them off the to-do list. Then,
address the complex and controversial ones, and get through as many as we
can in the allotted time.
I suspect that we'll be more motivated to close the difficult issues if we
know that they are all that stands between us and publication, rather than
having a bunch of other work still to do once they're closed.
Thursday, 23 August, 20:00 UTC, 4 PM US Eastern, 10 PM France, 6 AM
Australia Eastern, on +1-617-252-1038:
The purpose of the meeting is to establish a process for working
systematically through our list of open issues:
There are several issues identified as having proposed resolutions and
it might be easiest to start with those. The available options for
addressing open issues include:
1. Working through the document from start to finish, addressing
issues as we proceed.
2. Addressing particularly complex or contentious issues first, and
then examining more detailed questions of wording and individual
checkpoints.
3. A mixture of the above (in each meeting, discussing some complex
issues and also disposing of a few less difficult ones).
Some of the issues are already documented in the draft itself as notes
for reviewers.
Apart from determining how best to deal with the open issues, we
should also begin the process of actually addressing them.
I agree. Something that worked well in the AU working group was to first put
up issues that had a proposed resolution for instant consensus. If anyone
objected to the resolution it went back on the table for the agenda, but that
way we got rid of a number of issues quite fast, and could concentrate on
what was more difficult.
Cheers
Charles
I'd like to propose a 4th option:
Address the easy questions first, and check them off the to-do list. Then,
address the complex and controversial ones, and get through as many as we
can in the allotted time.
I suspect that we'll be more motivated to close the difficult issues if we
know that they are all that stands between us and publication, rather than
having a bunch of other work still to do once they're closed.
I second the motion.
Chas. Munat
Thursday, 27 September at 20:00 UTC (4 PM US Eastern, 10 PM France, 6
AM Eastern Australia) on the W3C/MIT Longfellow bridge:
The purpose of the meeting is to consider and, if appropriate, confirm
the consensus items which emerged from last week and the face to face
meeting, and to discuss more of the "big issues" (listed below) which
were not examined at last week's meeting.
These issues are:
6. Implementation
(Should difficulty in implementation affect priority.)
9. Access for absolutely all? - If not, how to draw line
(one suggestion was "BEST EFFORT")
10. Guidelines for all sites vs. special sites
12. Accessibility vs. usability
13. Conformance - why do it? How to test?
14. Author and user needs conflict
15. User and user needs conflict
Regrets. Very brief thoughts on agenda items below.
6. Implementation
(Should difficulty in implementation affect priority.)
CMN: No
9. Access for absolutely all? - If not, how to draw line
(one suggestion was "BEST EFFORT")
CMN: If we have no techniques or success criteria then we have no checkpoint,
and therefore we have not worked out how to solve problem XYZ. So we'll work
on it.
10. Guidelines for all sites vs. special sites
CMN: We are having enough trouble doing general guidelines and working out
what is required. When we get there we should think about what are the next
required steps.
12. Accessibility vs. usability
CMN: If we have some kind of concept that says "thisis is essential, this is
is imprtant, this is helpful" then we need not worry about whether it is
accessibility or usability, just about the impact for users with
disabilities.
13. Conformance - why do it? How to test?
To be a W3C specification it is imortant to know if what has been done is
what is specified. We should be able to provide success criteria that can be
tested for each of the requirements for conformance.
14. Author and user needs conflict
cmn: We describe what need to be done for users to get access to content. We
shouldn't describe things that are helpful as necessary, or specify a method
when we mean a problem.
15. User and user needs conflict
CMN: If these arise we need to work out how to solve them. Until then, this
is a red herring.
