This issue is another way of attacking the XML property round-trip behavior
problem.
The issue was originally raised by Jim Davis:
It is unclear from the spec (12.13.2) where exactly the xml:lang attribute
must appear in the XML request body in order to be stored.
May it appear anywhere in the XML tree (even, eg as an attribute of the
DAV:propstore element)? Or must is appear on a child of the property
element within the DAV:prop?
The XML spec says clearly that xml:lang may appear anywhere, and that is
has scope over all children: "The intent declared with xml:lang is
considered to apply to all elements within the content of the element where
it is specified, unless overridden with another instance of xml:lang."
On the other hand the DAV spec says: "Language tagging information in the
property's value (in the "xml:lang" attribute, if present) MUST be
persistently stored along with the property, and MUST be subsequently
retrievable using PROPFIND."
At least one implementor has interpreted this to mean it must be on the
child.
We need clarity on this, as it affects interoperability.
To elaborate, can I say
Or do I have to push the attribute down into the child, as in
Note that the latter interpretation has two very bad consequences:
1) Since the client has to invent a placeholder element, and there's no
obvious choice for the name of the element, it shoots interoperability. No
two clients will use the same element name for this placeholder, and hence
the values won't be comparable.
2) Since the current DASL base search protocol can't search properties
whose values are structures (ie. are elements, on the wire) no language
tagged property value will be searchable.
So I think this interpretation must be wrong. Do you agree?
Section 12.13.2 of RFC 2518 currently states:
Language tagging
information in the property's value (in the "xml:lang" attribute, if
present) MUST be persistently stored along with the property, and
MUST be subsequently retrievable using PROPFIND.
- Jim
To keep things simple, I would just disallow the xml:lang attribute
on the D:prop node. In fact, I would indicate that all attributes
on the D:prop node are ignored unless explicitly defined by the
protocol as being allowed there.
This allows a client to ignore attributes on the D:prop node, and
just store all attributes on the property node, without having to
understand the inheritance semantics of those attributes.
Cheers,
Geoff
To be persistant, I think we all agree the xml:lang attribute can be on the
property node and doesn't have to be on a child. Do we agree that it can
even be on the parent of the property node and still be persistant?
Should we discourage the client from doing this though?
I don't see any advantage as long as the inheritence rules are clearly
specified, such as in
-----Urspr?ngliche Nachricht-----
Von: w3c-dist-auth-request@w3.org
[mailto:w3c-dist-auth-request@w3.org]Im Auftrag von Clemm, Geoff
Gesendet: Mittwoch, 25. April 2001 22:47
An: WebDAV WG
Betreff: RE: Issue: XML_LANG_CLARIFY
To keep things simple, I would just disallow the xml:lang attribute
on the D:prop node. In fact, I would indicate that all attributes
on the D:prop node are ignored unless explicitly defined by the
protocol as being allowed there.
This allows a client to ignore attributes on the D:prop node, and
just store all attributes on the property node, without having to
understand the inheritance semantics of those attributes.
Cheers,
Geoff
To be persistant, I think we all agree the xml:lang attribute can be on the
property node and doesn't have to be on a child. Do we agree that it can
even be on the parent of the property node and still be persistant?
Should we discourage the client from doing this though?
