I have come across the following statement:
"We have discovered a "bug" in a major assistive system. When applying the
alt-tag, we have found that it MUST directly follow the src-attribute, and
come before any other attributes, such as height and width, e.g.
If the alt-tag is in any other position, some screen-readers will not find
or interpret it."
1) Has anybody heard of this?
2) Is it true? If so, which system are they referring to?
Thanks in advance.
JF
Helo
It's not reasonable the order of the tags should not affect html markups, it
could be
a bug of some specific browser.
the
Is there a source for this? If you think it's a credible source,
can you ask them what they're talking about?
That's absurd. It implies a parser tied together with sellotape,
and a level of profound brokenness warranting instant dismissal
from consideration as a product.
Was the statement dated April 1st?
Nick Kew
That the order of tags (and therefore elements) affects HTML markup is
fundamental to the concept of HTML as a structural language. I think
that attributes was meant here.
(I'm sorry, but this particular loose terminology really irritates me.)
Well, on the one hand Nick is right - anything that works as described
doesn't manage to handle HTML sufficiently well to be considered a working
implementation.
On the other hand, that doesn't stop people using things that give them some
benefit sometimes. This is an issue that won't go away, unfortunately. Unless
it is not possible to produce an imperfect tool people will use them, and
allowing for development means allowing for mistakes.
But if these people were selling their product to me I might argue as a
consumer that it doesn't do what is advertised, and they should provide new
copies to people who have paid for the product, which do the job properly.
Which may or may not actually have a useful outcome.
I might also choose a different product. Or write my own repair for it. Or
even just live with the problem. The real world is like that.
just my very personal approach to life.
cheers
Chaals
SWAD-E http://www.w3.org/2001/sw/Europe ---------------- WAI http://www.w3.org/WAI
W3C, 2004 Route des Lucioles, 06902 Sophia Antipolis Cedex, France
