Some general questions:
- Any chance of a GPL version of Amaya? A good way to attract developers.
- Does anyone use Amaya as their browser? I tried some complex sites and
Amaya wasn't happy.
- I noticed there aren't too many keyboard shortcuts. Is Amaya meant to
follow User Agent and Authoring Tool guidelines?
Thanks,
Aaron
Amaya is meant to follow the guidelines, as fast as it can be implemented
(along with a number of other things that are being impleemented by a small
and hard-working team). In the CVS version there are shortcuts for just about
everything in the linux version. I would like to do windows shortcuts too,
but I don't have a windows machine currently to find out what makes sense for
them.
The W3C license, which is what covers Amaya, is more like a BSD license than
a GPL. But I suspect building a developer community is more a question of
people knowing about it and wanting to hack on a browser/editor that does
lots of interesting things, and about providing the necessary support for
people to work on the code.
(Note that I am not part of the Amaya development team, just an intersted
user, so my comments probably don't mean much ;-)
cheers
Charles
Some general questions:
- Any chance of a GPL version of Amaya? A good way to attract developers.
- Does anyone use Amaya as their browser? I tried some complex sites and
Amaya wasn't happy.
- I noticed there aren't too many keyboard shortcuts. Is Amaya meant to
follow User Agent and Authoring Tool guidelines?
Thanks,
Aaron
W3C Web Accessibility Initiative http://www.w3.org/WAI
21 Mitchell Street, Footscray, VIC 3011, Australia (I've moved!)
In-reply-to: Your message of Thu, 02 Dec 1999 15:55:46 -0600."
As Charles explained the W3C license is more than a GPL.
Amaya implements W3C recommendations and has some trouble with invalid
documents.
It's quite easy to add or change keyboard shortcuts. Could you give a list of
keyboard shortcuts which are missing for you. We could add them in the next
release.
Regards
Irene.
