I have been playing around with a version
It includes some thoughts and explanations.
--Charles McCathieNevile mailto:charles@w3.org
W3C Web Accessibility Initiative http://www.w3.org/WAI
MIT/LCS - 545 Technology sq., Cambridge MA, 02139, USA
"HTML tips to ensure your Web site is accessible (to everyone or everybody
or to all)"
I don't know about dropping the Quick in Quick Tips. It's kind a
catchy as a name (the WAI Quicktips card).
Adding "to xxx" might be possible, but by dropping a point size for
the title.
"See the complete guidelines at www.w3.org/WAI"
Sounds OK.
Use the alt attribute to describe the function of all visuals.
Some visuals create functionality. Other visuals are purely aesthetic,
which may or may not be functional.
Is it desirable that web-authors describe ALL visuals? "This is an
aquamarine, 4-point line section-separator with ice cream and a cherry on
top?" What do the guidelines say about this? Anyway, I propose:
"Use the alt attribute to concisely describe visuals."
The guidelines insists that what goes in the ALT is the function of
the visual, not the description of the visual. So you don't find "this
is a line of yellow duck", you find "" for ALT in that case.
"MAP" and "link" must agree in number with Image Maps. Therefore:
"Use client-side MAPs and text links for hotspots."
Actually, it's one MAP with multiple hotspots. Does that change ?
Provide captioning and transcripts of audio, and descriptions of video.
Should it be captioning AND or captioning OR?
I think it's both ?
Use headings, lists, lang attribute, for structure. Use CSS for
layout and style. Be consistent
Use headings, lists, lang attribute and consistent structure. Use
CSS for layout and style.
I find the second example clearer. I would add "a" and "the"
where needed to improve readibility. "Style" may be too techie; is
"look-and-feel" better? Or just drop style -- CSS says it.
"Use headings, lists, the lang attribute, and a consistent structure. Use
CSS for layout."
"Use headings, lists, the lang attribute, and a consistent structure. Use
CSS to layout pages."
I think Style is CSS is not obvious to everybody and needs
to be mentioned.
Adding articles is nice but it doesn't fit anymore.
5 Hypertext Links
Use link text that makes sense when read out of context.
Use meaningfull link text. No "Click Here".
Use text that makes sense read out of context.
"Use link text that makes sense when read out of context."
or revisit the first draft:
"Ensure that each link makes sense when read alone."
I need to check if this last one would fit in 9 point.
6 Graphs &amp; Charts
Provide summary or use longdesc attribute.
Use summary or longdesc attribute.
"Summarize the data, or use the longdesc attribute."
The only reason I shortened this one is to fit in 9 pt.
Please comment on whether or not you think it's worthwhile before
proposing to re-add the text.
7 Scripts, Applets, &amp; Plug-ins
Provide alternative representations in case active content is inaccessible
or unsupported.
Remove the comma after Applets, add "the" after "in case." I think we can
drop "inaccessible." If scripts and applets were well-supported, they
would be accessible. Can we leave out "active?"
A browser can support something and this something is inaccessible,
like JavaScript with OnMouseOver activation, or PlugIn in Shockwave.
"Provide alternative representations in case the active content is
unsupported."
"Provide alternative representations in case the content is unsupported."
"content unsupported" feels awkward.
8 Frames
Label each frame with title or name attribute to allow access
to individual pages.
Label each frame with title or name attribute.
Add "the" if it will fit:
"Label each frame with the title or name attribute."
I will check if it fits tomorrow (I'm home on a serial connection)
9 Tables
Avoid using tables to format columns or navigation bars. Make
cell by cell reading of tabular data sensible.
Have data make sense when read cell by cell. Provide a Summary. Avoid
using tables for columns.
"Ensure that data makes sense when read cell by cell. Summarize.
Use CSS to format columns."
Issue with that is that CSS is not really supported everywhere for us
to ask specifically to use it.
10 Check your work
Validate the HTML &amp; CSS of your site. Test with images, sound, and
animation off. Use evaluation tools to verify accessibility.
Validate the HTML. Use evaluation tools and textual browser to verify
accessibility.
Change "textual" to "text."
Last version has text-only. Is that better ?
I would really like people to give opinion on the font size choice.
Reply to: RE  WAI card - Font Size
I agree with Charles (in this case, anyway), although I think the font and the amount of white space used on the pilot version makes the card quite readable already.
geoff/ncam
Date: 2/1/99 3:45 PM
From: Charles McCathieNevile
Bigger is better.
in this case, anyway
Charles
I would really like people to give opinion on the font size choice.
--Charles McCathieNevile mailto:charles@w3.org
W3C Web Accessibility Initiative http://www.w3.org/WAI
MIT/LCS - 545 Technology sq., Cambridge MA, 02139, USA
------------------ RFC822 Header Follows ------------------
Received: by wgbh.org with ADMIN;1 Feb 1999 15:43:29 U
Received: (from daemon@localhost)
by www19.w3.org (8.9.0/8.9.0) id PAA11596;
Mon, 1 Feb 1999 15:33:23 -0500 (EST)
Resent-Date: Mon, 1 Feb 1999 15:33:23 -0500 (EST)
Resent-Message-Id: 199902012033.PAA11596@www19.w3.org
X-Authentication-Warning: tux.w3.org: charles owned process doing -bs
Date: Mon, 1 Feb 1999 15:33:18 -0500 (EST)
From: Charles McCathieNevile charles@w3.org
Message-ID: Pine.LNX.4.04.9902011532310.26535-100000@tux.w3.org
MIME-Version: 1.0
Subject: Re: WAI card - Font Size
Resent-From: w3c-wai-eo@w3.org
X-Mailing-List: w3c-wai-eo@w3.org archive/latest/390
X-Loop: w3c-wai-eo@w3.org
Sender: w3c-wai-eo-request@w3.org
Resent-Sender: w3c-wai-eo-request@w3.org
Precedence: list
Bigger is better.
in this case, anyway
Charles
I would really like people to give opinion on the font size choice.
--Charles McCathieNevile mailto:charles@w3.org
W3C Web Accessibility Initiative http://www.w3.org/WAI
MIT/LCS - 545 Technology sq., Cambridge MA, 02139, USA
