Since there's been some discussion recently about Microsoft FrontPage and
accessibility issues concerning the pages it produces, I thought I'd ask
whether there are any reasonably powerful web authoring packages that are
both accessible and produce accessible content as a matter of course. I'm
totally blind and am currently using FrontPage 98. I find that I have to
manually add images and their Alt content in the HTML view that FrontPage
provides, but a lot of the other stuff is pretty keyboard-friendly. Also, I
like knowing that, if I get stuck in adding something in WYSIWYG mode or in
seeing just exactly what I've done, I can easily hit Control+PageDown and
have a look at the HTML source code. This goes a good way towards making
FrontPage a decent package for a blind person.
I keep hearing about the great accessibility features of HotMetal, but I
haven't heard whether its interface is accessible for a blind person at this
time. The last I heard it was much better at producing accessible pages
than at giving an accessible experience to the web author.
So, there we have packages that do the one task pretty well or the other
task pretty well. What can a person with disabilities use that both aids in
ease of use and produces accessible content?
Thanks,
Jerry Weichbrodt
Dear Jerry,
I am delighted to hear that FP is accessible, even if the pages it produces
leave something to be desired.
One problem FP shares with most other graphical editors is that it will,
without warning, delete and/or reformat code you put in by hand. There is
no satisfactory way to defeat this behavior.
Of course, a the whole point of such a tool is that one should NOT need to
know HTML! I don't think it unreasonable that such a package be accessible,
nor is it unreasonable to expect such a tool to produce valid and minimally
accessible code!
It will probably be a few years before Microsoft offers such a product.
Have you tried Amaya?
Adobe Golive 5 is purported to conform to the WAI. It is slated for
release any time now. Check it out at http://www.adobe.com . They
are also implementing accessibility in Acrobat and PDF.
Currently, I use Golive 4, and then run the output through HTML Tidy
for Mac, using the XHTML 1.0 spec. Works well. I'm not sure how
accessible the interface would be to the visually impaired, though.
It has good source and "outline" editing modes.
David
Correction -- Go Live 4.0 does not conform to WAI. The "report" is for a
future version. Go Live does support CSS and Alt text, but no accessibility
prompting or validation. There are issues around the accessibility of its
interface as well.
However, Adobe is committed to accessibility of Go Live, Acrobat and PDF as
well as other layered products it produces. All work in progress at this
time.
- Mike
From: w3c-wai-ig-request@w3.org [mailto:w3c-wai-ig-request@w3.org]On
Behalf Of David Sheehy
Sent: Monday, May 08, 2000 6:35 PM
Subject: Re: Web Authoring Tools that are Both Accessible and Produce
Accessible Content
So how many years have we been hearing that Adobe is committed to
accessibility now? Sorry folks but we should be seeing results from this
company not more talk that's likely as not devoted to convincing the U.S.
federal government that PDF files will be accessible as anything else.
I'm sure that people will call me Mr. Negative for saying this but PDF
files have been one of the worst things for accessibility and if I had a
dollar for every person who's blind who's had trouble reading the results
of a supposedly converted PDF file, I'd certainly be able to take a nice
vacation.
It is time that people with disabilities stand up and tell the government
to quit using PDF until the company demonstrates 100 percent accessibility,
not the sham they continue to portray as such.
Hi Bruce. I think I saw mention of Amaya on the W3C web site, but I was
amused that I couldn't seem to find information on just what an Amaya was or
what it was supposed to do -- just some stuff about bug fixes.
Really, I'm pretty happy with FrontPage, and I'm glad I am since it ain't
exactly cheap. Still, I'm interested in what's out there and what might be
effective tools for the future. Is Amaya a full-fledged
authoring/publishing/maintenance tool? and what makes this particular mouse
trap different from the others grin ?
Thanks,
Jerry
Accessible Content
produces
accessible,
minimally
Tell it like it is my man!
Amaya is the W3C's test-bed authoring tool / browser. It is designed to be a
browser that lets you edit (like the original WWW tool). It is an open source
project, with a small team (about 3) of W3C staff working on it. It
implements HTML, much of CSS1, XHTML, a fair amount of MathML, an
experimental version of an XML vector graphics language, and a few other
things. We are working on the accessibility of AMaya - there is still a way
to go, and anyone who wants to work on programming is welcome to help...
CHeers
Charles McCN
Hi Bruce. I think I saw mention of Amaya on the W3C web site, but I was
amused that I couldn't seem to find information on just what an Amaya was or
what it was supposed to do -- just some stuff about bug fixes.
Really, I'm pretty happy with FrontPage, and I'm glad I am since it ain't
exactly cheap. Still, I'm interested in what's out there and what might be
effective tools for the future. Is Amaya a full-fledged
authoring/publishing/maintenance tool? and what makes this particular mouse
trap different from the others grin ?
Thanks,
Jerry
Accessible Content
produces
accessible,
minimally
W3C Web Accessibility Initiative http://www.w3.org/WAI
Location: I-cubed, 110 Victoria Street, Carlton VIC 3053
Postal: GPO Box 2476V, Melbourne 3001, Australia
Gerry, the Authoring Tool Aggessibility Guidelines Working Group has done
some preliminary reviews of tools, whch are available
people have time to read the relevant documents and test their tools against
them). In particular, there is a review of HotMetal.
The review of HotMetal states that it seems to use all system and
accessibility conventions, enabling it to work with assistive technologies.
Cheers
Charles McCN
Since there's been some discussion recently about Microsoft FrontPage and
accessibility issues concerning the pages it produces, I thought I'd ask
whether there are any reasonably powerful web authoring packages that are
both accessible and produce accessible content as a matter of course. I'm
totally blind and am currently using FrontPage 98. I find that I have to
manually add images and their Alt content in the HTML view that FrontPage
provides, but a lot of the other stuff is pretty keyboard-friendly. Also, I
like knowing that, if I get stuck in adding something in WYSIWYG mode or in
seeing just exactly what I've done, I can easily hit Control+PageDown and
have a look at the HTML source code. This goes a good way towards making
FrontPage a decent package for a blind person.
I keep hearing about the great accessibility features of HotMetal, but I
haven't heard whether its interface is accessible for a blind person at this
time. The last I heard it was much better at producing accessible pages
than at giving an accessible experience to the web author.
So, there we have packages that do the one task pretty well or the other
task pretty well. What can a person with disabilities use that both aids in
ease of use and produces accessible content?
Thanks,
Jerry Weichbrodt
W3C Web Accessibility Initiative http://www.w3.org/WAI
Location: I-cubed, 110 Victoria Street, Carlton VIC 3053
Postal: GPO Box 2476V, Melbourne 3001, Australia
Just wanted to say thanks to everybody for all the comment on
accessible/output-accessible tools. I'll have a look at some of the reviews
and try to become more current on what's out there. I'm on a web team at
work along with my "hobbyist" interest in all of this, so I don't think it
can but help for me to be as knowledgeable on all this stuff as possible.
While I'm boning up on editors, I wonder if the HTML 4 documentation at the
W3C web site is a good way to come up to speed on some of the newer
extensions of HTML or if I should look in another area. I learned HTML from
the HTML Primer put out by the University of Illinois, and I find it's kind
of difficult to figure out what's a good source of information to extend my
knowledge from there. If anybody has good suggestions, I'd appreciate it.
As it is, it's sometimes hard for me to even understand some of the newer
issues in accessibility when my building blocks are incomplete.
Thanks,
Jerry
While I think 100 percent accessibility is a noble goal, realistically, what
kind of expectations can we have about PDF technology? I'm curious in hearing
feedback from the list. This is a question I get asked on a daily basis. I have
yet to weigh in on one side or the other.
Regards,
MELINDA MORRIS-BLACK
Information Architect
Information Networks of Kansas
FON: (785) 296-5143
PCS: (785) 550-7345
melinda@ink.org
Hi All,
It is not a noble goal. Soon for the federal government it will be the law
so Adobe better either figure it out or make the information available in a
medium that is 100 percent accessible. This idea that just trying and
doing the noble thing for accessibility has to stop and ensuring
accessibility from the beginning has to start. Adobe never did that and
now they are just prattling on and on about how they are working hard to
help the disabled when it is they who created the barrier in the first place.
Realistically I don't expect much better than the nonsense output we
currently get from Adobe. They might do some slick parlor tricks and get
the PDF conversion routines to interact better with screen readers
automatically but the fundamental conversions will still be filled with
text that's formatted so crazily that much of it is impossible to use.
Adobe says they'll be creating authoring tools to help address this problem
by allowing people to indicate more about a document's structure. If you
think convincing the bulk of the internet community that adding alt-tags
matters, well wait until you try and convince them to add structural
information to their documents.
Hang on. Adobe do not try to use accessibility for PR very much. I
doubt many people know about access.adobe.com at all. I have found
their mentions of accessibility to be quite low-key. Also, how are
they "responsible for the problem" - PDFs are used usually as
supplementary information designed for printing, not primarily for
screen reading. Contrast this with Flash, which is by and large
replacing the entire readable screen content of sites with
animations. There is no "reader" for Flash, either.
Again, also check out the way Microsoft behaves. They are truly into
hype. They act as if they are saving the world by being on an
accessibility board. Just wait until they start crying "Don't break
us up, because then we won't be able to make accessible applications
(sob)!"
So they act like this, yet they are the number one cause of
inaccessible computing. look at the number of companies that are
making money selling solutions to problems that should never have
been in wiondows in the first place. Compare that backwards approach
of designing something for visual users, then patching over it with a
screen reader, compared to things like Emacspeak where it is designed
to be an audio interface from the start.
Well, gosh, isn't that what XML is all about? there seem to be many
designers who are very happy about XML. E-commerce people seem to
love the idea of structuring documents. Your argument sounds like you
can't win either way. Adobe suck because they don't make accessible
tools ... but if they were to make accessible tools, you wouldn't
like that, because it's too much of a bother. Now what is your
solution, then?
Have you ever thought that XML is one of the first relistic ways of
implementing accessible structured documents in an open standard? If
I were Adbobe, I would be incorporating XML into PDF. Why wouldn't
they, with all the forms and e-commerce type stuff PDF can do?
Personally, I would rather wait a little bit longer for something
that works properly in the first place, than have developers rush
quick hacks to market.
David
