Hi,
Some participants were confused because tags like OBJECT, ACCESSKEY which
are new to HTML 4.0, are recommended by the GLs but are not yet supported
by browsers (OBJECT by neither Netscape or IE, ACCESSKEY by Netscape).
It is difficult for page authors to know whether they have implemented
advice correctly because they cannot get the tag to work. When I pointed
out the reason these participants said that this should be indicated in the
Guidelines.
I suggest that the Guidelines (techniques) should include, at least, an
indication that the page author may not be able to see the result of
implementing a technique yet. Perhaps, at best, a list of browsers that do
support the tag (as begun in the 19980721 version).
Chetz
Chetz Colwell c.g.colwell@herts.ac.uk
Sensory Disabilities Research Unit
Department of Psychology
University of Hertfordshire
Hatfield AL10 9AB, UK
TO:c.g.colwell@herts.ac.uk
I wouldn't go as far to list browser support, but I would provide
warnings about buggy features that can break browsers, like OBJECT.
(If it just didn't work, you were lucky).
HTML4.0 should be the default HTML level of the guidelines.
Other versions are authoring-wise obsolete. HTML4.0 is a recomendation
almost a year now. That's more than the period that HTML3.2 was.
Things like THEAD, COLGROUP, or LABEL, that have no effect on
(non supporting) browsers, the guidelines shouldn't mention that
this is a new HTML4.0 feature since authors will say "we're not
going to use it as only few browsers support it."
Only new things that do not degrade gracefully to HTML3.2
(TFOOT, BUTTON) or have buggy implementation (OBJECT), authors
should be warned that they are new.
I can't see a reason to mention that IMG is available
in HTML2.0 and HTML3.2 when these HTML versions are
obsolete.
The guidelines should be clear in their advice and have good examples.
This way it will be clear from the guidelines if they were implemented
correctly.
Also the guidelines should emphasize that browsers are not validators.
Authors should be advised to validate their work in a validator,
read guidelines, the HTML spec, and some other good reference, and only
after they implemented guidelines correctly according to documentation,
check if the browsers implemented it correctly.
Regards,
Nir Dagan
It is always difficult to indicate which kind of browsers support
which kind of features. Almost every features have possibility
that they are not supported by some implementations. We can't list
ALL existing/emerging browsers.
I'm quite worrying that if we only list some major browsers, people
might only care for those (only a few) major browsers. Even though
OBJECT might not be supported by current version of Netscape and IE,
TV communities will DO use OBJECT (such as ATVEF). Mobile communities
think that ACCESSKEY is quite helpful for some mobile devices, such as
mobile phone. I know there are browsers for those devices which
support ACCESSKEY.
As Nir pointed out, browsers are not validators. We should
concentrate on advising people to do the right thing.
Regards,
Masayasu Ishikawa / mimasa@w3.org
W3C - World Wide Web Consortium
I've expressed to the UA group that a prioritized list of HTML 4.0 tags and
attributes and CSS1 and CSS2 properties that are beneficial to accessibility
be part of the User Agent Guidelines.
Little things like ACCESSKEY on anchors and correct handling of OJBECT
inner-text is what browser manufactures need to know.
[mailto:c.g.colwell@herts.ac.uk]
Hi,
Some participants were confused because tags like OBJECT,
ACCESSKEY which
are new to HTML 4.0, are recommended by the GLs but are not
yet supported
by browsers (OBJECT by neither Netscape or IE, ACCESSKEY by
Netscape).
It is difficult for page authors to know whether they have
implemented
advice correctly because they cannot get the tag to work.
When I pointed
out the reason these participants said that this should be
indicated in the
Guidelines.
I suggest that the Guidelines (techniques) should include,
at least, an
indication that the page author may not be able to see the
result of
implementing a technique yet. Perhaps, at best, a list of
browsers that do
support the tag (as begun in the 19980721 version).
Chetz
Chetz Colwell c.g.colwell@herts.ac.uk
Sensory Disabilities Research Unit
Department of Psychology
University of Hertfordshire
Hatfield AL10 9AB, UK

Mobile communities
think that ACCESSKEY is quite helpful for some mobile devices, such as
mobile phone. I know there are browsers for those devices which
support ACCESSKEY.
Internet Explorer 4.0 and later does support ACCESSKEY, but not on anchors.
ACCESSKEY which
not yet supported
by Netscape).
implemented
When I pointed
indicated in the
It is always difficult to indicate which kind of browsers
support
which kind of features. Almost every features have
possibility
that they are not supported by some implementations. We
can't list
ALL existing/emerging browsers.
I'm quite worrying that if we only list some major browsers,
people
might only care for those (only a few) major browsers. Even
though
OBJECT might not be supported by current version of Netscape
and IE,
TV communities will DO use OBJECT (such as ATVEF). Mobile
communities
think that ACCESSKEY is quite helpful for some mobile
devices, such as
mobile phone. I know there are browsers for those devices
which
support ACCESSKEY.
As Nir pointed out, browsers are not validators. We should
concentrate on advising people to do the right thing.
Regards,
Masayasu Ishikawa / mimasa@w3.org
W3C - World Wide Web Consortium
Yes, actually I'm providing some ACCESSKEYs on Mobile Access Web page [1],
and IE 4 works pretty good.
[1] http://www.w3.org/Mobile/
Regards,
Masayasu Ishikawa / mimasa@w3.org
W3C - World Wide Web Consortium
to follow up on what nir.dagan@econ.upf.es said:
Could you expand a little on what you mean by obsolete? If
an author writes in HTML2.0, does it work in most browsers,
or does it break?
Al
TO:asgilman@access.digex.net
The relevant question is not most browsers but conforming HTML4.0 browsers
(that do not exist, ofcourse). The specification does not require that theuy
would support HTML2.0 or 3.2, but gives it as friendly advice only.
For example, HTML2.0 allows having a HR inside a PRE element.
A browser who interprets this as HTML4.0 may consider the HR to indicate
an ommited /PRE tag and consider all the text after the HR as being outside
the PRE, loosing the formatting that the author intended.
HTML3.2 has XMP as legitimate markup. Authors who put html tags inside a XMP
element get these tags to render as CDATA in HTML3.2 browsers, but this may
break an HTML4.0 browser who may interpret these tags as markup.
XMP is marked in HTML3.2 as deprecated, but all deprecated features
in HTML3.2 are marked with INCLUDE in the DTD.
Regards,
Nir Dagan.
