Hello. Please note that I'm not in amaya dev mailing list...
I quickly looked at Amaya documentation and saw that its downloading
possibilities are next to nothing. I have no time to develop Amaya
but sure will share my views with you. Here is what I would find very
useful in a web browser.
User should be able to "print" the webpage to his local directory.
This would be done by downloading the document, the frames, and their
images. The result is that user is able to view the webpage offline.
At the moment, as far as I know, browsers can only save the main document
or alternatively frames. Images would be saved one at a time (which can
be heard if the page is full of math text with embedded gif images for
formulas).
Paper printing is only way to copy the page "as is" at the moment.
But the trend is to save paper.
Juhana
Well, Amaya is first of all a Web *editor*, even if it has some
browsing features, mainly to help editing. That means that it also
has some nice features to save web pages locally or remotely.
Have a look at the "Save as" command in the File menu. It allows
you to save a Web page to a local directory or a remote Web server.
You can also check the "Copy Images" item in the "Save as" dialogue
box, and all images embedded in the page will be saved to a local
directory (which could be the same as the page directory) or to a
remote server. It's up to you.
However, frames are not handled currently in Amaya.
Vincent.
Hello.
Thank you for the reply. It looks like saving of frames could be added
quite easily with one step recursion.
Yes, I knew Amaya is an editor. My reasoning was that people who write
a web editor thinks like me about these issues. For some reason I have
have lost my believ in browser writers...
Also, editor stores more about the document which makes an editor more
suitable for me when I would like to add my own special features.
Amaya looks very good to me. My project is on entirely different topic
but I very often need a very powerful web-scripting which is not yet
available (as far as I know). Think about patent.womplex.ibm.com
and automatic saving of patent document images only... when the document
is entirely in the program as a data structure, I find it easier to
write custom tools for doing the task.
Regards,
Juhana
