Hi,
I am wondering if anybody let me know or reference me which project and
software support databases as it's resources, while using webdav
features to have access control on the objects of database like tables,
views and queries? And how they use of Webdav to implement access
control.
Bita Shadgar.
Lotus Domino RNext claims it will support WebDAV as you described.
See http://www.informationweek.com/thisweek/story/IWK20010614S0003
- Steve
I suppose it depends on how literally I read your request.
I'm not sure I know of any servers that treat an entire database as a single
WebDAV resource (well, I suppose you could store an entire Access database
file on any DAV server...)
As for servers that use a database for their internal representation and
storage of resources and properties, several of the WebDAV servers do this.
My understanding is that Xythos WebFile server, Exchange 2000, Oracle
Internet File System, and Intraspect 4 are all database backed --
undoubtedly there are others as well.
- Jim
and
tables,
single
database
By definition of WebDAV in RFC 2518, it that possible to consider a
whole database as a resource? Or the resource in this document just
stands for files and directories.
Bita Shadgar.
The concept of a "resource" is intentionally loose. Basically, a resource is
an abstraction. Since the notion of a database is an abstraction, just as a
cell in a database is too, either could be considered resources. A resource
can be mapped to a URI, URN, or URL.
So, if you write a server implementation that maps an entire database as a
resource, and maps it to a URL, then yes, it is possible to consider a
database as a whole resource. Similarly, if you write a server
implementation that maps individual database cells to a resource, then
assigns each cell a distinct URL, then it is possible to consider a database
cell as a Web resource.
WebDAV defines operations for working with Web resources via HTTP, so the
effect of a DAV operation on the underlying repository depends on the
mapping of resources to abstractions in that repository.
The "official" definition of a resource can be found in RFC 2396:
Resource
A resource can be anything that has identity. Familiar
examples include an electronic document, an image, a service
(e.g., "today's weather report for Los Angeles"), and a
collection of other resources. Not all resources are network
"retrievable"; e.g., human beings, corporations, and bound
books in a library can also be considered resources.
The resource is the conceptual mapping to an entity or set of
entities, not necessarily the entity which corresponds to that
mapping at any particular instance in time. Thus, a resource
can remain constant even when its content---the entities to
which it currently corresponds---changes over time, provided
that the conceptual mapping is not changed in the process.
- Jim
Although both these are possible, I've always thought that mapping rows to
resources and tables to collections was the most useful. The MSDAIPP
component used by MS clients (you can see its name in the User-Agent header
if you sniff) takes this approach in a way: it presents an OLEDB interface
to the client software developer which treats every file and collection as a
row.
lisa
Do you know any software or project which has had such above resource( rows as
resources)? I 've looked at webDAV homepage, however I couldn't find.
Bita.
