Problem:
tidy inserts a blank character after the first character under some
conditions.
Minimal test document:
text-one
text-two
The second paragraph is rendered as
Note the blank after the first "t" of "text-two"
Klaus Johannes Rusch
KlausRusch@atmedia.net
The same bug is present in JTidy:
If any JTidy gurus (Gary? :) want to have a crack at this, we should
have a fix rsn.
-Sami
lempinen@iki.fi http://www.iki.fi/lempinen/
apt-get a life
It's good to know that Andy left us with a faithful port of tidy! I
have real reservations about "fixing" the JTidy code base and getting
out of sync with Tidy. I think we should strive to keep the
implementations as identical as possible in this core functionality.
When Tidy is fixed, we will obviously reflect that change in JTidy. But
I don't think it's a good idea to have local fixes all over the place.
I felt badly about the last fix but it was causing a java exception and
I annotated it clearly. We'll have to remove it or revisit it when Tidy
is corrected.
How do others feel?
Gary
Hello,
Yep! Now I know what the Wine team has to go through, trying to
duplicate all the bugs ;)
Seriously, I appreciate Andy's and Dave's work tremendously, and do
think that the Java port should keep as faithful as possible to the original.
I agree. I do think, however, that in cases where a trivial fix would
be possible, we could try to offer it to Mr. Raggett just to make his
job easier.
If necessary, I can administer a separate CVS code fork (a branch,
mergeable to the trunk) for JTidy versions that beat the original to
bugfixes etc. Forks are not very productive though :(
-Sami
lempinen@iki.fi http://www.iki.fi/lempinen/
apt-get a life
Does anyone know when this bug is likely to be fixed.
I am currently working with JTidy...what a fantastic set of classes. I run
into a similar problem with text within TD tags,
for example
can get rendered as
Keep up the fantastic work
Regards
Ian Gratton.
I seem to recall that a fix for this was checked in to the JTidy CVS
recently. I'd be happy to test this if you'd supply the HTML that
you're seeking to tidy together with the options that you used.
Gary
Greetings,
With a lot of CVS activity lately, I think it might be a good idea to
roll a new public release of JTidy. Or what do you think?
I could try to make a release tonight, provided that my temp dialup
connection is fast enough to allow working with a remote CVS server.
-Sami
lempinen@iki.fi http://www.iki.fi/lempinen/
ICQ:19002710 ************* apt-get a life
Sami --
If you'd like, I could try to make the release as well, following your
excellent instructions. If you want to have a try at it, please let me
know and I'll hold off until I hear from you.
Gary
Cheers for that...thanks for you quick reply.
I'll watch out for the new release....but until then I'll attempt to
rebuild.
Umm....glad it works for you...are you saying you ran the HTML file thru
the last 04aug2000r5 release or against the new fixed code. Maybe is a
combination of something else in our code...maybe something to do with
our DOM navigation.
Ian --
I ran my sample HTML through the current CVS build which contains
post-r5 fixes. Unfortunately, I just tried running my same sample
through 04aug2000r5 and I didn't get the problem there either. Can you
send me the HTML you're using so that I can run it through both versions
on my system and verify that this really is the fix that I was thinking
of.
Gary
Hi,
This is regarding JTidy.
Does Jtidy support Japanese Html documents..
that is when i give some doc which contains japanese characters, will Jtidy
convert it as required.??
If it doesn't what do I have to do to make it understand Japanese
characters??
I'm really not familiar with this portion of JTidy but it should mirror
the support in Tidy itself. Perusing the documentation page, the
"char-encoding: iso2022" configuration option looks like it may address
this issue. You might try that and let us know the results.
Perhaps someone more familiar with this than I am will jump in here.
Gary
Hi,
This is regarding JTidy.
Does Jtidy support Japanese Html documents..
that is when i give some doc which contains japanese characters, will Jtidy
convert it as required.??
If it doesn't what do I have to do to make it understand Japanese
characters??
Thanks in advance,
Bhagwandas jakhotia
Thanks Gary..It worked ..
Jtidy
