I quote
"I am NOT saying IE for Windows = WEB"
Ok, so I will then.
It is a fact according to site stats that I look at that 97% of browsers
that visit sites I monitor are I.E. in various stages of evolution. (sic.
congrats to Microsoft)
It is also a fact that people hate to change the Mutt they are used to
playing with, be it pedigree or mongrel. Learning how to use new software is
low on the general public's priority list. Truth is it is not on their
priority list at all, which brings us back to user's responsibilities in an
earlier thread.
Head hurting
smiles
Paul
Hi Paul,
I am curious about the site stats you look at - although I don't
necessarily mean to dispute your facts.
I have noticed that many browsers identify themselves as IE (Opera does
this by default, and many others make it easy to do so). Simple playing
around suggests that this is to get around browser-sniffers that
exclude other browsers for no terribly good reason.
Likewise, there are many techniques for stats gathering that do not
work neatly. Proxying means that straight log checking is fraught, and
the use of such proxy-aware techniques as images drawn from a CGI
gateway and not cached by proxies assumes that users who do not get
images are statistically insignificant.
There was a W3C activity trying to characterise the web and its usage,
and people like Len Kasday were involved because of the importance of
any such data to accessibility questions (and the importance of
questions like the above in the way data are gathered). They gave up,
in part I believe because it turned out to be an apparently intractable
problem.
Cheers
Chaals
Charles McCathieNevile Fundaci?n Sidar
charles@sidar.org http://www.sidar.org
Just wanted to make the point that although Opera does this by default,
even in its state it identifies itself as Opera if the detection routine
is thourough enough. This rules out most JS and simple software, but some
more advanced tools finds out about this double identity easily and reflect
their results thus. For example, my Opera 7.23 identified as Explorer;
UAG = Mozilla/4.0 (compatible; MSIE 6.0; Windows NT 5.0) Opera 7.23 [en]
There is enough info there to find out what is really browsing your page,
but most scripts/functions that tries to work this out does it left to right
looking for the first instance of certain patters, missing the important
right-most info.
Anyways, just some added inflation.
Alexander
