Misha:
I browsed your paper.
YOu might be interested in PICS, a w3 offering as a standard
rating system for all internet resources. There is a problem with
this(or with any system that attempts to RATE anything). Beauty
is in the eye of the beholder; suitability is very context specific.
Also, the scaling of large annotation systems into the already
crowded internet is problematic. Some solutions have been
suggested for improving the performance of HTTP (http 1.1 being
one). There can be no ONE POINT for housing all the public comments
about a given resource.
In one way, standalone comments about a particular site are a simpler
version of annotations. in general, an annotation will carry with it
a collection of hooks that have to be dropped into a particular
version of a target resource. This is a much more complex issue
than simply grafting annotation to the end of a given resource.
The second scenario works well when the host resource changes...
the parasitic annotation can still live along with it.
Another missing piece of the puzzle is... what if the underlying (host)
resource changes after a set of (parasitic) annotations have been applied
to it... and what if the changes are so drastic that the context of the
original annotations are lost. Obviously it is the right of anyone
to change any URL response at any time (or is it???), but wouldn't
you like to be able to keep your snarky comments in line with the
host resource? This is screaming for some sort of notification
system which has knowledge of the web of annotations and the
responsible authorities for each one.
That's probably only worth about half a cent.
les cuff
nf.ca
Leslie,
You raise a very interesting point:
We're doing some work that might help for this problem, at least within the
context of a single group. We're developing support for a notification
system based on the Athena Zephyr system. Basically for our purposes this
support multicasting lightweight notices within a cell/realm/ whatever .
So far we've integrated it with our Mediator system for controlling and
tracking access to a group's shared web space. I hope to be able to
integrate it with our group annotation system sometime in the future; then
we should be able to provide notification in both directions--writer's of
annotations can be notified if the annotated document changes and document
owners/authors can be notified if their document is annotated.
W. Scott Meeks |
Open Group Research Inst.| "That government governs best which governs least."
meeks@osf.org | - Thomas Jefferson
(617) 621-7229 |
Thanks for the comments- I'd only heard the quietest rumblings about PICS-
it sounds salient, and I'll go read more.
I agree that it's problematic. As you've probably gathered, I also think
it's critical.
I suspect that I'm way less technically savvy than most people on the list,
and am thus a little wary about arguing feasibility. I recognize that a
central public comments database would be huge- definitely too big for a
single publicly-minded individual or organization to maintain out of
altruism or in the name of research. But it's not clear to me that it would
be bigger than existing free commercial web search engines- and it does seem
possible to operate it on a similar business model. (Assuming, of course,
that Web search engines actually are profitable- for all I know, they're all
still losing money...)
Are there points I'm missing there? There's some stuff in the paper where I
take some really rough stabs at imagining how much processor
power/bandwidth/storage the project would take relative to running a big
search engine. I'd love to know if there are complications I'm missing...
I also wonder about running it on a distributed model a la Usenet, which is
a pretty big whack of data to which anyone can write or read (with no one
point for storing/serving all that info). I'm less optimistic about this
possibility, though...
Agreed. From what I've read about the w3c-annot ideas, it's a way richer
medium than the simple comments that I talk about in the paper- lots of very
cool tools that everyone would love to see implemented.
I wanted to describe a very simple commenting structure, in order to focus
on the specific idea of trying to make the commenting (or annotating) system
as universal as possible- to make it possible for me to see every comment
that's been added to a page, and to add comments that'll be similarly
available to others. I don't know if there are extra complications that
would arise in a richer system closer to the w3c-annot one.
Yeah.I'd thought about this a little. Say "Steve's page of spurious
trash", at http://www.interweb.com/~steve/trash.html, collected a huge
volume of critical comments. Steve moves it to a different ISP and
distributes it accross different pages. The comments it garnered needn't be
lost. Only one user would have to post messages on the new pages desribing
the move and pointing to
whatever the syntax would be). All the old comments would then be availble.
Aince comments are maintained independently of the host, there's no reason
an url has to exist to support comments.
It's half a cent more than I had before. Thanks.
- Misha Glouberman
