Is there anyone out there who can tell me whether I have this right?
As I understand it braille is usually abbreviated, and that there are
different conventions for abbreviation depending on the language. In
other words there is French braille and German braille. If this is the
case, is there a poassibility that a sentence written in one language and
contracted will appear to be logical in another language, but have a
different meaning. And if so, will this occur more than once in any
person's lifetime?
Charles McCathieNevile
Yes, Charles McCathieNevile's understanding is correct in that braille in many
(though not all) languages is abbreviated, and that the abbreviation system
varies quite naturally from language to language according to their common
letter groupings, pronunciation patterns and such. Moreover, the appropriate
and customary braille treatment is not only a function of language but also of
context. For instance, French braille in France is a little different from French
braille in Quebec, rather different again from French as done by the British
for English-speaking French students, and as you might guess the Americans
do it still a fourth way. The result is that ambiguity is certainly possible,
though I would have to doubt that that fact commonly leads to a lot of confusion because
the human brain is wonderfully capable of sorting out, from the semantic
context, which of several theoretical possibilities actually makes sense in the
current instance. You don't actually have to mix several languages to encounter
this phenomenon. For example, in regular contracted English braille, the slash or stroke (/)
has the same braille representation as the letter-group "st". The creates a
theoretical ambiguity, and I have indeed heard stories where the ambiguity
caused the reader trouble -- primarily when unfamiliar proper names, such as
for products or companies, were involved. But in the overwhelming majority
of instances, it's obvious that "and/or" makes sense and "andstor" doesn't.
(But notice, special care would be needed to render that last sentence
intelligibly in braille.) Present work in braille code design is in the direction
of removing these kinds of ambiguities, mostly because they can cause
problems in the context of technical notation. See the work by the
Internation Council on English Braille towards a Unified Braille Code (UBC)
for English at
and note in particular that the UBC project is still debating the point as to whether
language switches should have an explicit signal in braille.
On Fri, 13 Nov 1998 14:47:50 +1100 (EST),
Joe Sullivan's reply is good, since he has made a career out
of writing braille translation software. There is some
probability of confusability for short sentences, but people can
figure out what is going on. Also, I wouldn't expect much contracted
braille to be encoded as HTML. Rather, when people talk about Braille
presentation, my understanding is that they are dealing with
uncontracted, otherwise printable, text in the language of interest,
with an eye toward contracting and rendering it "on the fly", or
making hard copy from downloaded HTML/CSS files.
In the WebBraille project here at NLS, we provide contracted braille
material from a website, but it is not HTML. Rather, it is ready for
embossing on braille devices at 25 lines per page, 38 to 40 characters
per line.
-- Lloyd Rasmussen
Senior Staff Engineer, Engineering Section
National Library Service for the Blind and Physically Handicapped
Library of Congress 202-707-0535
(work) lras@loc.gov http://www.loc.gov/nls/
(home) lras@sprynet.com http://home.sprynet.com/sprynet/lras/
In addition to the ICEB, there is BANA (Braille Authority of N America)
which recently approved signs and rules for brailling electronic
addresses (e-mail &amp; URLs) and filenames in nontechnical contexts. This
group governs brailling music, chemistry, mathematics, etc. -- all
different "languages". BANA's website is:
annual meeting in Boston Nov. 10. In the U.S., the National Library
Service (part of the Library of Congress) is one key contact -- among
much else, it certifies Nemeth (scientific braille), music and literary
("standard") braille transcribers.
Are ICEB, BANA, etc. invovled with or aware of this WAI group?
Virginia Rodes
Maryland Library for the Blind
(I probably should have mentioned that BANA actually started the UBC
project, and remains actively involved in it through ICEB.)
Yes, both ICEB and BANA are aware of WAI, and obviously share its goal
of promoting accessibility. The UBC project is grounded in part on the
recognition that automatic rendering in braille from the Web and other
electronic sources is already important and growing more so all the time, and
so in that sense it may be regarded as a symbiotic effort. Likewise, work
with existing braille codes is increasingly along the same lines (even
though more incremental in scope), because UBC itself is still a research
project in the development and evaluation stages.
Joe Sullivan
Duxbury Systems, Inc.
