Hurried summary before the conference call: sorry if not everyone gets
to read their email before the meeting.
Perhaps we can to draw things together on
Brian and I both feel a need to get a consensus on our basic vocabulary
and there have been enough people saying that they `know' what a
resource is in their hearts. Perhaps most of us think the same way (with
just a few people having to adjust in a small way).
The three words URI, resource and entity are bandied about.
Entities are `things in the world' from Web pages (which are easy) to
`trees in the park' (which are hard). Two aspects are used by many to
nail entities. One is the retrieval form (a page is what the network
delivers) but this becomes difficult with trees and indeed people. For
people we have the `a person is not just their DNA' idea: we are all
aware of our own identity across time and space. Also Jos De Roo makes a
significant point in defining the global set of `entities' to be a set
of (set of states of an entity), thus reminding us that an entity has a
biography across which some useful sort of identity is preserved.
Aaron's (and others') references to real web pages changing or being
mirrored should also be acknowledged.
URIs are the means with which we point to entities but this is done via
the concept of `resource'.
We seem to have a majority vote for URIS matching resources closely
(URIs are unique labels for resources) but that resources may be used to
refer to entities as required. This may mean multiple resources
representing (a difficult word) the `same' entity but we may acknowledge
that different resources may indicate different aspects of an entity or
different subsets of that entity's states (`the entity in all its
forms').
Thus put very blandly: URI=resource- entity
Am I picking up the right messages? I suggest we base a vocabulary on a
(better written) form of these ideas.
Martyn Horner martyn.horner@profium.com
Profium (former name Pro Solutions), Les Espaces de Sophia,
Immeuble Delta, B.P. 037, F-06901 Sophia-Antipolis, France
Mob. +33 (0)6.21.01.54.56
Internet: http://www.profium.com
It may annoy philosophers, but from the POV of writing an RDF DB,
"URI=resource"* is a reasonable (or at least commonly-held) viewpoint.
The nomenclature is bound to lead to philosophical debate; it comes down
to this:
- whatever we use as identifiers in an RDFDB is conceptually mapped onto
"the real world" by some imterpretive function
- which side of the function the things we refer to as "resources" live
is unclear; in fact, it might be used colloquially to refer to "ur" or
"entity" and the meaning derived from context;
- deriving meaning from context is fuzzy and can lead to confusion.
jan
* modulo anon resources
jan grant, ILRT, University of Bristol. http://www.ilrt.bris.ac.uk/
User interface? I hardly know 'er!
As a participant in discussions about this set of terms for
some 10 years[1], I strongly suggest that you conduct the
discussion on the basis of test cases.
Any understanding (that you think) is established without
a basis in black-and-white test cases and/or code will
almost certainly vaporize as soon as a few new people
join the discussion, or as soon as the results of the
discussion are presented to a wider audience.
The chairs might even want to put this issue aside for
a while, until we've closed a few others, lest it
should consume all available bandwidth and produce
little in the way of results.
[1]
This is an effort to provide shared context and promote cohesive
discussion and coherent specifications.
For an informal glossary of terms, see: glossary of web terms. See also:
Outline
Currently, this is just an alphabetical index of terms, with references
to
documents where they are defined in different ways. The intent is to
come
up with one comprehensive, consistent terminology that specifications
will
draw from and add to (hopefully, in an automated fashion, eventually!).
I'd
also like to formalize this knowledge using something like Larch or KIF
(e.g.Formal Treatment of XML and Related Technologies .)
-- Web Architecture: Index of Terms
Thu, 04 May 2000 18:54:35 GMT
Dan Connolly, W3C http://www.w3.org/People/Connolly/
I'm going to have to agree with Dan in this situation. For now, let's use
the definitions defined by HTTP and the other relevant specs. DanC reviewed
this in:
These definitions have served us well for a rather long time, and I don't
think that RDF needs any modifications to these definitions.
I suggest we use our teleconference time to deal with test cases and their
dispositions. Other discussions are more appropriately held on the email
list -- I've found it much more effective.
If people are confused with the definitions currently used the Web
architecture specs, I suggest they take their questions to a more
appropriate forum (uri@w3.org comes to mind). Let's keep this list more
specifically to RDF issues.
[ Aaron Swartz | me@aaronsw.com | http://www.aaronsw.com ]
A couple of comments on this:
I fully agree with this idea. I think we need to get our ideas well
worked out in "working papers" circulated by email, and solidly based on
test cases demonstrating specific issues and requirements, before
spending a lot of teleconference time on them (the issues IMHO are
potentially too complicated to do anything else). I'm less certain
about how adequate the current definitions are, but that's something to
be worked out in the course of the discussions.
The question is whether the current definitions are adequate to deal
with all the distinctions that RDF needs to be able to talk about.
Hence, I don't think discussing the subject is inappropriate on this
list (we do, after all, have something on our issues list we're trying
to deal with here). However, it would probably save time to clarify
what those distinctions are separately (in email discussions, as noted
above), and then address whether we can express them adequately using
the existing defintions, and whether we might not need either
clarification of or additions to those definitions.
--Frank
Frank Manola The MITRE Corporation
202 Burlington Road, MS A345 Bedford, MA 01730-1420
Hi all,
I've just joined the group - had to free up some time from
other tasks first.
My name is Ron Daniel. I was on the original RDF groups,
also in the early Dublin Core work. Current position is
"Standards Architect" at Interwoven, where I am leading our
metadata standards effort. Toward that end I co-chair the
PRISM working group[1], which has just released version 1.0
of its metadata spec. Centroid of the audience for that spec
is magazine publishers, Interwoven is backing it because:
1) It exists now, and has the right foundation for the
future (RDF, Dublin Core + other namespaces, ...)
2) If it covers the basic needs of magazine publishers, it
should do very well as a starting point for our customers.
Later,
Ron
[1] www.prismstandard.org
Hi folks,
I've been looking at the RDF/URI resource from the point of view of
eliminating as many vague words as possible from the M&amp;S rather than working
out how to map them and map them between the M&amp;S and rfc2396. My arguments
are
1: that having lots of these about makes it far too easy for folk to shoot
your definition down.
2: it might be possible to remove them and increase meaning and clarity.
So a bit of OO analysis and I hope not too much semantic drift...
The original M&amp;S:
"Resources:
All things being described by RDF expressions are called resources. A
resource may be an entire Web page; such as the HTML document
"http://www.w3.org/Overview.html" for example. A resource may be a part of a
Web page; e.g. a specific HTML or XML element within the document source. A
resource may also be a whole collection of pages; e.g. an entire Web site. A
resource may also be an object that is not directly accessible via the Web;
e.g. a printed book. Resources are always named by URIs plus optional anchor
ids (see [URI]). Anything can have a URI; the extensibility of URIs allows
the introduction of identifiers for any entity imaginable."
The original uses: object, entity, resource, document, collection, anything.
It also uses 3 actions, describing, naming and identifying. [I'll punt on
whether expressions are things or actions]
tweak 1 tries to cut out some of the nouns:
"Resources:
Things being described by RDF expressions are called resources. Resources
may be a machine accessible Web page such as the HTML document
"http://www.w3.org/Overview.html", or be a part of that Web page. A resource
may also be a whole collection of Web documents, such as an entire Web site.
In RDF, resources are always identified by URIs plus optional anchor ids
(see [URI]). These are called Resource Identifiers. Things and collections
of things that are not machine accessible via the Web such as printed books
or people can also be described by RDF expressions, by naming them using a
Resource Identifier."
That used: thing, resource, collection, and 3 actions: naming, describing
and identifying.
tweak 2 cuts out more words and removes the examples:
"Resources:
Things being described by RDF expressions are called resources. In RDF a
resource is a thing that is identified by URI plus optional anchor ids (see
[URI]). These identifiers are called Resource Identifiers. RDF can be used
to describe things which are not necessarily machine accessible."
That used: thing, resource, collection, and 2 actions: describing and
identifying. And so the questions in my mind are now:
1: have I substantially changed the meaning or intent of the M&amp;S so far?
2: how different is the above resource from an *rfc2396 resource?
tweak 3 is a terser operational form [and a hail Mary play to rfc2396]:
"RDF expressions are used to describe resources as discussed in (see [URI]).
In RDF, resources MUST be identified by a URI plus optional anchor ids (see
[URI]). The current state of an RDF resource MAY be machine accessible to an
RDF application."
That used: rfc2396 resources, and 2 actions: describing and identifying.
How much meaning has been lost?
regards,
Bill
Bill de h?ra : InterX : bdehora@interx.com
*rfc2396
Resource
A resource can be anything that has identity. Familiar
examples include an electronic document, an image, a service
(e.g., "today's weather report for Los Angeles"), and a
collection of other resources. Not all resources are network
"retrievable"; e.g., human beings, corporations, and bound
books in a library can also be considered resources.
The resource is the conceptual mapping to an entity or set of
entities, not necessarily the entity which corresponds to that
mapping at any particular instance in time. Thus, a resource
can remain constant even when its content---the entities to
which it currently corresponds---changes over time, provided
that the conceptual mapping is not changed in the process.
