In todays telecon we discussed having UA developer demonstrations of their
products accessibility features during the breaks or evenings of the F2F
meeting in October. It was felt like this was a good idea, but that there
should be some guidance to the vendors on what they present. Particularly
that presentations should be tied to the discussions of the guidelines.
For example when we are talking about table rendering issues, that
technology that has addressed table rendering could be demonstrated at that
time or before that session discussing tables.
There are several questions:
1. What times should the demonstrations take place?
2. What guidance should we give developers for their presentations?
Please send your comments soon, since we need to get this organized.
Jon
Jon Gunderson, Ph.D., ATP
Coordinator of Assistive Communication and Information Technology
Division of Rehabilitation - Education Services
University of Illinois at Urbana/Champaign
1207 S. Oak Street
Champaign, IL 61820
Voice: 217-244-5870
E-mail: jongund@uiuc.edu
WWW:http://www.staff.uiuc.edu/~jongund
speaking of demos, forst, what is f2f? second, the new ibm home page
reader looks promising. it demonstrates and interesting combination of
accessibility features from the ua side.
Hands-On-Technolog(eye)s
touching the internet
voice: 1-(301) 949-7599
poehlman@clark.net
ftp://ftp.clark.net/pub/poehlman
Dynamic solutions Inc.
Best of service for your Small Business network Needs
Sorry for the jargon. F2F stands for face-to-face meeting.
Jon
Jon Gunderson, Ph.D., ATP
Coordinator of Assistive Communication and Information Technology
Division of Rehabilitation - Education Services
University of Illinois at Urbana/Champaign
1207 S. Oak Street
Champaign, IL 61820
Voice: 217-244-5870
E-mail: jongund@uiuc.edu
WWW:http://www.staff.uiuc.edu/~jongund
I plan to be at the face-to-face after CTG to demonstrate IBM Home Page
Reader's features that illustrate implementations of the UA guidelines.
I think independent self-voicing browser vendors should be able to address how
their browsers implement each guideline with few problems. However, which
vendors will demonstrate how dependent browsers (Navigator, Opera, LYNX, I.E.,
etc.), which work with screen readers/screen magnifiers, implement each
guideline - the browser vendors, screen reader/screen magnifier vendors, or
both? I think it would be great to hear from both types of vendors.
Cathy Laws
IBM Special Needs Systems Development
E-mail: claws@us.ibm.com
