Seems to me that being simple and understandable on highly complex issues
is not a real possibility. You wouldn't give the same presentation to a
middle school science class that you would to a PHD seminar on
astrophysics. One must cater to a certain degree to the likely audience.
The only thing you can reasonably demand is that the material be
accessible not understandable. Demanding otherwise implies a positive
responsibility to educate all people everywhere in everything.
-Jamie
snip 2) change the current status of the guideline for "simple and
understandable" text from "recommended" to "required" /snip
Anne
How are you guys getting this, my system just shows a big blank where the
image map should be! Maybe it is not a loss but ....
I am using I.E. 4
Marti
I am using the latest and greatest with images off and didn't even
know there was an image. gee, If I had wanted to bet to the links
right away, I might have been disapointed. This is not an acess issue
but you might want to keep that in mind when designing your pages.
some times, people will want an overview of the links on the page at
the outset like the image map provides but since you've put an
imagemap there it isn't presented to the non graphical user.
I created a graphical presentation of the six major links on a site and
put
them all into one large graphic that fills most of the opening screen.
So
far, the single image seems not to pose the problems that a set of seven
or
so graphics on the page would have caused.
What do you see as the problems caused by seven graphics that are
avoided by a single image? I believe there are a number of
benefits in _avoiding_ imagemaps whenever possible, and this
case here would be an example of a time in which it's avoidable
(and thus preferable to avoid).
Some reasons include:
* Better "packaging" of the content in scalable chunks
[Important for nonstandard screen displays such as palmsize PCs]
* Access to individual image links are better supported in every
browser than access to imagemaps
[Important for non-graphics users of graphical browsers as well
as users of older versions of lynx]
* Ease of maintenance -- if a new section must be added, it's just
a case of adding a new graphic rather than requiring a remake
of an imagemap
[Important for designer maintenance and design flexibility]
* Imagemaps _lack contextual clues of link status_ because they
_do not display borders around hotspots_. Granted, most graphics
these days are included with BORDER=0, but the use of user
defined cascading style sheets enable a visual user to turn those
borders back on if the visual clues are thought to be useful!
Which they _are_!
[Important for increasing comprehension of web site design among
users of graphical browsers, including cognitively disabled
users]
The new version of my page is at:
What else would be necessary to make the page at
people???
I would make the following changes:
* Get rid of the imagemap and break it into a row of six images;
lose the radiating lines (unnecessary for the most part) and
I'd probably put the hand graphic above, not below, the other
icons for graphic design reasons. (As an "identity icon" for
the page, it should be featured most prominently in the design.
Also, the use of the hand as a separate icon allows for that
particular graphic to be used as a link by someone who'd want
to link to the site, as Jonathan suggests.)
* If you must keep the imagemap, please label it correctly with
ALT text on each area. If your FrontPage does not support this,
then you may need to change web creation software and/or code
the imagemap by hand.
* As a side note, FrontPage is including a LOT of very extraneous,
unnecessary HTML code -- such as tables for positioning -- which
bloats the size and complexity of what should be a simple page.
You may want to strip out as much as possible of that chaff, since
it may be locking your design into a specific screen resolution.
This has implications for users who have configured their screen
width and display properties to their _own_ needs -- such as low
vision users -- and may make the page harder for them to access,
as well as slower for everyone to load.
* The links in your imagemap are repeated as text header links
lower in the page, which is good. I would place a copy of the
picture next to each textual link, though, because it will
increase comprehension for "baseline" users as well as non-
textual users by associating the graphics above with the fuller
descriptive text used later in the page, increasing comprehension.
There's my 2 cents worth.
Kynn Bartlett mailto:kynn@hwg.org
President, HTML Writers Guild http://www.hwg.org/
AWARE Center Director http://aware.hwg.org/
Hands-On Technolog(eye)s
Touching The Internet:
Voice: 301.949.7599
ftp://ftp.clark.net/pub/poehlman
Dynamic Solutions Inc.
Best of service
for your small business
network needs!
---sig off---
Getting the same thing with IE5. I can see where the image is supposed to
be, but no image.
I am using the latest and greatest with images off and didn't even
know there was an image. gee, If I had wanted to bet to the links
right away, I might have been disapointed. This is not an acess issue
but you might want to keep that in mind when designing your pages.
some times, people will want an overview of the links on the page at
the outset like the image map provides but since you've put an
imagemap there it isn't presented to the non graphical user.
As I didn't receive a response from anyone as to why some of us were not
able to see
the graphic.
The page appears to be improperly coded as we would not normally have the
graphic on our "C" drive.
To see the graphic, you can use the following
Chuck
the
I am using the latest and greatest with images off and didn't even
know there was an image. gee, If I had wanted to bet to the links
right away, I might have been disapointed. This is not an acess issue
but you might want to keep that in mind when designing your pages.
some times, people will want an overview of the links on the page at
the outset like the image map provides but since you've put an
imagemap there it isn't presented to the non graphical user.
