The message that raises this issue suggests that xml:lang attributes are
not represented in the model.
An interpretation of m&amp;s is that a literal is not a simple string but is
in fact a pair of two strings (s, l), s representing the string value of the
literal and the l being the language encoding, e.g. the value of
an xml:lang attribute.
With this interpretation, we would need to modify n-triple so that it
could represent the pair, not just the literal string. Personally,
I've been writing: "string"-"lang", but I'm not precious about the
precise syntax and would be happy for one of the N3 designers to
propose something in keep with the langauge design.
This issue is related to:
I'll something more about that in a separate message.
Brian
FYI, the following can be found in section 6 of M&amp;S:
The xml:lang attribute may be used as defined by [XML] to associate a
language with the property value. There is no specific data model
representation for xml:lang (i.e., it adds no triples to the data model);
the language of a literal is considered by RDF to be a part of the literal.
An application may ignore language tagging of a string. All RDF applications
must specify whether or not language tagging in literals is significant;
that is, whether or not language is considered when performing string
matching or other processing.
at
Brian
Or what? Under penalty of death? Seriously, I think that wording
such as this should be softened somewhat in the new spec... if
we don't change xml:lang, that is.
"Aaron Swartz" | Blogspace
http://www.aaronsw.com/ | weaving the two-way web
I have a similar eye-rolling reaction to this sentence. Primarily because
"RDF application" is such a woolly term, embracing Schemas, parsers, T-shirt
designers, anything that applies RDF for some purpose.
Dan
Hey - don't shoot the messenger. I just thought it would be useful to
know what m&amp;s says on the subject. There's some more:
As defined by XML, the character repertoire of an RDF string is
ISO/IEC 10646 [ISO10646]. An actual RDF string, whether in an XML document
or in some other representation of the RDF data model, may be stored using
a direct encoding of ISO/IEC 10646 or an encoding that can be mapped to
ISO/IEC 10646. Language tagging is part of the string value; it is
applied to sequences of characters within an RDF string and does not have
an explicit manifestation in the data model.
Brian
FWIW, I think this is broken and will require some kind of fix (as opposed
to clarification). I'm agnostic about the nature of the fix.
The reason I think it is broken is that I think that RDF applications
cannot be required to operate on anything other than that which appears in
the "data model". Thus, I think that if xml:lang MAY be significant then
it MUST appear in the "data model".
#g
Graham Klyne Baltimore Technologies
Strategic Research Content Security Group
This is one place where I think the implementation record shows that
the M&amp;S 1.0 spec needs more info. I think the simplest thing to do is
1) Change n-triples to n-quadruples, where the 4'th field is the
value of the xml:lang attribute (if any). (Warning, this is not
the only place where we are likely to want to add more columns to
the n-triples format to get to the 'real' model. Statement IDs or
'nests' or 'contexts' may be needed. We also probably need some
simple type fields, such as to indicate if the subject is a simple
subject or is an 'aboutEach', and to indicate if the object is a literal
or a URI. But I digress).
2) Postpone any more detailed work, such as identifying the source
and predicate for the statements that should be generated to represent
the xml:lang information. The 1.0 spec says that it does not add any
triples to the model. The 2.0 spec may say something different, such as
"Literals are assigned URIs according to the procedure X" and
"Literals may be assigned data types, locales, etc. by using that
URI as the subject of additional statements. Those additional statements
MUST be flagged in such a way that they can be suppressed if 1.0
conformant serializations of a graph are to be produced."
Ron
