some thoughts about xmlspec and docbook...
I attended an event in Washington last week on XML publishing format
to present how we use XML in the W3C DOM WG.
Seems that some organizations are interested in using the same XML
Schema (or whatever you like as a schema).
OASIS is leading towards the XML version of DocBook. The W3C started to use
xmlspec in 1996/1997 with the XML specification itself. I didn't look
closely at DocBook and I'm still wondering how far we go into producing
a common schema for specifications, but is there any chance that we can merge
both somehow (or use a correct extension mechanism)?
Benefits are not obvious between organizations since the documents format
are differents but for applications who would like to be able to use
our XML documents, it would improve a lot their situation (I'm thinking
about NIST in particular here).
Given that some people on this list are both in W3C and OASIS, maintaining
both formats, how huge is the gap between xmlspec and docbook?
I'm personnally not favoring xmlspec or docbook. Using an XML format is
a sufficient reason for me as long as I can describe well enough the DOM
specifications (i.e. an XML format without support for interface would be
useless).
Philippe
/ Philippe Le Hegaret plh@w3.org was heard to say:
Considering article in DocBook to be roughly equivalent to spec ,
I arrive at the following comparison (off the top of my head):
DocBook Articles vs. XMLSpec
- The "meta" is quite different, XMLSpec has a whole bunch of W3C-specific
metadata. This could (should?) be addressed by creating an XML namespace
for the W3C metadata. The DocBook TC is evaluating what to do with meta
and allowing namespaced meta seems like a good idea.
- XMLSpec tag names are often HTML-derived so they tend to be shorter.
(e.g. p vs. para , att vs. sgmltag class='attribute' .)
- DocBook probably has more "wrappers".
- DocBook uses the CALS table model, XMLSpec uses HTML. (But they aren't
that far apart, really.)
- XMLSpec has more "special purpose" elements (e.g., specref/ ,
bibref/ , etc. where DocBook has just xref/ ).
I think working towards some common format would be a really good
idea.
Q1: Are we willing to break legacy in significant ways? Could the
XMLSpec doctype be made more DocBook-like and vice versa?
Q2: Assuming that neither community is willing to accept all the
suggestions of the other :-), should we define an isomorphic set
of tags?
Q3: Can this be addressed organizationally? Could the W3C be persuaded
to accept DocBook documents as specs? Could OASIS be persuaded to
accept XMLSpec?
Adding markup to DocBook, if there are justifiable use cases in the
computer documentation domain, is pretty straightforward.
Be seeing you,
norm
Norman.Walsh@Sun.COM | Everything we love, no doubt, will pass away,
XML Standards Engineer | perhaps tomorrow, perhaps a thousand years
XML Technology Center | hence. Neither it nor our love for it is any
Sun Microsystems, Inc. | the less valuable for that reason.--John
Passmore
I would say that's the job of the editor so we should not let us stopped
by this issue.
I would suggest to keep the XMLspec format here (and in general to always
prefer the "special purpose" elements over a general element). I don't know
about the XSL but the DOM generator is doing different manipulation depending
on the element (specref, xspecref or bibref).
This will force the DOM working group to revise its DOM generator and the
XSL for the DOM Test Suites but it is possible to do it. I'm waiting for
more feedback before asking the group directly.
As Dan pointed out, the W3C has no constraint on tools used to produce as long
as the resulting document HTML valid and conforms to the W3C style. I don't
think that all working groups are ready to switch to XML yet unfortunately. We
will need to ask/persuade the working groups who are currently using xmlspec to
switch to the new format.
Philippe
/ Philippe Le Hegaret plh@w3.org was heard to say:
Fair enough.
I tend to favor the other approach myself, allowing the link behavior
to be determined by the thing it points to. But I don't feel very
strongly about it.
Yes, we definitely need more feedback. It's too early to start changing
things :-)
That will probably be easier than persuading the working groups not currently
using XML at all to start using it :-)
Be seeing you,
norm
Norman.Walsh@Sun.COM | If you're strong enough, there *are* no
XML Standards Engineer | precedents.--Scott Fitzgerald
XML Technology Center |
Sun Microsystems, Inc. |
This isn't practical in the general case. For example, how would you be
able to tell, by looking at the thing linked to, that a reference to
another W3C specification is normative vs. non-normative? I realize that
XMLspec currently doesn't make this distinction, but it's something that
has been brought up a few times.
The association may have semantics that neither of the endpoints has on its
own. XLink and RDF teach us this. :-)
Eve
Eve Maler +1 781 442 3190
Sun Microsystems XML Technology Center eve.maler @ sun.com
well, if we added some RDF into the document...
chaals
This isn't practical in the general case. For example, how would you be
able to tell, by looking at the thing linked to, that a reference to
another W3C specification is normative vs. non-normative? I realize that
XMLspec currently doesn't make this distinction, but it's something that
has been brought up a few times.
The association may have semantics that neither of the endpoints has on its
own. XLink and RDF teach us this. :-)
Eve
Eve Maler +1 781 442 3190
Sun Microsystems XML Technology Center eve.maler @ sun.com
Location: 21 Mitchell street FOOTSCRAY Vic 3011, Australia
(or W3C INRIA, Route des Lucioles, BP 93, 06902 Sophia Antipolis Cedex, France)
Right -- either RDF, or XLink arc roles that are harvestable as RDF if you
wish... My point was that you can't tell by inspection what the semantic
is; a human has to decide and record it.
Eve
Eve Maler +1 781 442 3190
Sun Microsystems XML Technology Center eve.maler @ sun.com
/ "Eve L. Maler" eve.maler@sun.com was heard to say:
Well, that may be true in the general case, but an xref to a bibl is
probably a bibref and an xref to a div is probably a specref, etc.
Individual elements work fine when there are only a few, but how many do you want?
specref
bibref
glossref
tableref
figureref
prodref
protoref
funcref
Be seeing you,
norm
Norman.Walsh@Sun.COM | To create a little flower is the labour of
XML Standards Engineer | ages.--Blake
XML Technology Center |
Sun Microsystems, Inc. |
This is all a bit theoretical at the moment, and depends on editorial style
and available markup. Arc roles are more flexible precisely because you
don't have to keep inventing new elements, and yet they give you lots of
expressiveness. (But both allow a human to make and apply a judgment,
which a raw ref element doesn't give you.)
E.g., the current style is to use bibrefs to link to bibls, but there's
been some talk about also/instead linking directly to the cited work. If
we adopted a style where you link directly to the other document, and you
wanted to indicate whether the other document is normatively or
non-normatively cited, you could use an arc role to indicate this. In
fact, using XLink extended links, you could handily link the citation both
to the bibliography entry and to the external document.
Eve
Eve Maler +1 781 442 3190
Sun Microsystems XML Technology Center eve.maler @ sun.com
