Guys, I have to report a slight disaster. Trying to respond to
Peter's suggestion that we should provide a clear rule-based
criterion for RDFS inconsistency, and to prove the resulting lemma, I
found a serious flaw in the proofs of the RDF and RDFS entailment
lemmas. There just wasnt time to get nice versions of the corrected
proofs written out by the publishing deadline, so the 10/10 semantics
document has some ugly stuff in its proof appendix, written in a
hurry and with parts of it rather sketchy.
I apologize to the WG for this. I hope to have really nice proofs
done by early next week, and they can be editorial tweaks to the
final publication version.
None of this affects the normative parts of the document.
Pat
IHMC(850)434 8903 or (650)494 3973 home
40 South Alcaniz St.(850)202 4416 office
FL 32501(850)291 0667 cell
phayes@ihmc.us http://www.ihmc.us/users/phayes
Hi Pat,
You did the right thing in bringing this to light immediately.
Trying to respond to Peter's
It is not your fault. I had doubts about going to 2nd last call without
a complete review of the semantics doc. I suppressed them, which in
hindsight was a mistake.
That is life. The world is not a perfect place, and one of the things
I'm learning is just how hard it is, even for very clever people, to get
things like proofs right. I forget what it was like programming in
languages that didn't do a lot of checking of the program at compile
time. This seems like writing in machine code without even a machine to
test the code on - all one has is testing by inspection.
I hope to have really nice proofs done
I think we have to assess how to react to this little problemette.
I think we make life more difficult for ourselves, not easier, if we try
to rush things through before we are really ready. We should ask
ourselves whether we still believe we are ready for lc2.
On the one hand:
- the proofs are informative - they are there to convince ourselves,
and others, that the claims we make are justified, e.g. with respect to
the relationship between the entailment rules and the MT.
- thus W3C process allows for them to be corrected during last call
without forcing another last call, provided its just the proof thats
wrong, not the conclusions.
On the other hand:
- there are bugs in the proofs - we are not done on the semantics
document and we have not yet addressed all our issues with it. The
latest message from Peter suggests we are not done discussing this yet.
By that critereon, semantics is not ready for 2nd last call.
Options:
- go ahead with the second last call announcement
- hold off the second last call announcement till we have sorted the
problems with semantics (how?).
- go ahead with all except semantics?
Brian
FYI I am not available for review of semantics in the next couple of weeks.
Jeremy
suggestion that we should provide a clear rule-based criterion for RDFS
inconsistency, and to prove the resulting lemma, I found a serious flaw
in the proofs of the RDF and RDFS entailment lemmas. There just wasnt
time to get nice versions of the corrected proofs written out by the
publishing deadline, so the 10/10 semantics document has some
