Are you saying that to not limit their range of applications, XML-based
specifications (like XSL and XSLT) SHOULD NOT USE hyphens in names? That if
a separator is wanted, underscores are preferable to hyphens?
I personally find max-size more readable than max_size or
MaxSize , but the two latter are somewhat less problematic. -Tim
The use of the dash is problematic for those who want to use the tag name as
an indication that the char data of the given tag should be used in a
mathematical expression of some kind.
max-size could mean get the value binding for the element max-size or it
could mean subtract the value bindings for the elements max and size.
John Boyer
Software Development Manager
UWI.Com -- The Internet Forms Company
[mailto:w3c-ietf-xmldsig-request@w3.org]On Behalf Of Tim Bray (by way of
"Joseph M. Reagle Jr." reagle@w3.org )
in g)
Are you saying that to not limit their range of applications, XML-based
specifications (like XSL and XSLT) SHOULD NOT USE hyphens in names? That
if
a separator is wanted, underscores are preferable to hyphens?
I personally find max-size more readable than max_size or
MaxSize , but the two latter are somewhat less problematic. -Tim
Are you saying that to not limit their range of applications, XML-based
specifications (like XSL and XSLT) SHOULD NOT USE hyphens in names? That
if
a separator is wanted, underscores are preferable to hyphens?
My vote is for MaximumSize .
I like to use the same name for (1) element names (2) database fields (3)
variable names and (4) sometimes directories.
For instance, if I have an ASP application that writes to a database, my
database field is "FirstName", the HTML form field is "FirstName", the ASP
variable name is "FirstName" and the corresponding XML element is
FirstName . Makes life very simple and understandable . . . and allows me
to easily automate creating certain things, which I like a lot.
Hyphens sometimes break applications. I can't recall ever having an
underscore break anything, but I avoid them because you can never be too
sure. The above example isn't that great because neither hyphens or
underscores break any of the above . . . but I am certain I have had
problems with hyphens in other applications.
idontliketoruneverythingtogetherforobviousreasons.
I also avoid abbreviations because I find that some people don't understand
other people's abbreviations. This is especially true when two "cultures"
mix, which is the problem I have within "Legal XML" (i.e., XML for lawyers).
Avoiding abbreviations also helps with readability in general. Plus, I
agree, some are of the opinion that mark-up should last forever (or at least
a long, long time) and that, in some cases, it should or will exist without
stylesheets -- in which case, for the sake of our ancestors, our names ought
to be very clear. My preferences, in order follow:
Todd
