To the Group -
At home I am a stead-fast "Windows" type but at work, I am generally on a
Mac - a G3 Tower running OS-X with no Classic or other operating system on
the same machine. Not sure whether we've discussed the issue but Mac's and
probably more likely the browsers created for Mac's DO NOT render certain
pages that were authored using CSS.
I tested the links or one link from today's Techniques Audio Conference
(http://www.w3.org/WAI/GL/WCAG20/WD-WCAG20-GATEWAY-20030723.html) and here's
what I found with multiple browsers:
Microsoft's Internet Explorer: Yielded the text very well. The floating
buttons on the right that would link one back to the Table of Contents did
not render (showed up as a missing graphic).
Apple's Safari: The text was all over the place - basically, no usable
rendering at all.
OmniWeb: Yielded good text. Same flaw as Internet Explorer (floating
button showed up as a missing graphic).
Mozilla: Same as "big brother" - Netscape below. Mozilla and Netscape did,
however, render the floating buttons for anchoring back to the Table of
Contents.
Netscape: Table of Contents flowed to the right and off of the screen -
rest of the text (non-hyperlinked) was okay.
Opera: Good text rendering but floating buttons did NOT render properly.
My Concern -
I am not going to recommend one browser over another as not a single one in
this simple, non-scientific low budget experiment rendered the identified
page correctly. This same page
(http://www.w3.org/WAI/GL/WCAG20/WD-WCAG20-GATEWAY-20030723.html) did not
have similar issues on a Windows machine with various web browsers.
I recall some months back, we discussed the importance of assuring that web
accessibility cross the operating system divide and we needed to look at how
things render on Mac's. If we make recommendations to authors that they use
CSS, we need to be assured that the user agents on varying platforms
actually support pages equally well.
Suggestion:
More people testing stuff out on Mac's and making some of this "stuff" known
to the rest of the group. Again, I cannot be sure but feel this is a user
agent issue but it is still a concern that needs to be addressed.
Question:
Has anyone else encountered this same issue? Anyone know if the User Agent
Working Group has discussed this? Your thoughts and possible solution are
appreciated.
Thanks for listening
Doyle Burnett
Doyle Burnett
Education and Training Specialist
Multiple Disabilities Program
Special Education Service Agency
dburnett@sesa.org
Www.sesa.org
and I don't know what that's all about, but it is not valid HTML.
One of those eat-your-own-vegan-dogfood things.
The CSS validates, though, if you can dig around to find the right URL.
1. Write valid code
2. Tweak for known incompatibilities in target browsers
Action 2 above includes Macs and various other platforms, of course.
For both 1 and 2, read _Designing with Web Standards_ by Zeldman, among
many other widely-available sources.
A *lot* of people working in Web accessibility use Macintosh or are
outright Macintosh separatists. I do not think WAI is in much of a
position to use its own invalid documents as models of CSS-based design,
however.
Joe Clark | joeclark@joeclark.org
Author, _Building Accessible Websites_
Nope, this document does not validate. It was published to show a prototype
for an idea. The XML needs to be cleaned up and the document needs to be
republished.
--w
things render on Macs.
wendy a chisholm
world wide web consortium
web accessibility initiative
