The Digest Access Authentication mechanism has been resubmitted to the
HTTP working group for consideration for inclusion in HTTP/1.1. The
boundary between HTTP-WG and WTS-WG is fuzzy in this area, but I would
like to make sure that members of WTS-WG and the Security Area have an
adequate chance to review and comment on security-related items in
HTTP-WG documents.
Does anyone believe that HTTP-WG should *not* proceed with digest-aa?
Title : A Proposed Extension to HTTP : Digest Access
Authentication
Author(s) : J. Hostetler, J. Franks, P. Hallam-Baker,
A. Luotonen, E. Sink, L. Stewart
Filename : draft-ietf-http-digest-aa-02.txt
Pages : 6
Date : 12/20/1995
The protocol referred to as "HTTP/1.0" includes specification for a Basic
Access Authentication scheme. This scheme is not considered to be a secure
method of user authentication, as the user name and password are passed
over the network in an unencrypted form. A specification for a new
authentication scheme is needed for future versions of the HTTP protocol.
This document provides specification for such a scheme, referred to as
"Digest Access Authentication". The encryption method used is the RSA Data
Security, Inc. MD5 Message-Digest Algorithm [3].
Will this be available to people outside the US, or will the ITAR
regulations mean that only those in the US can legally use it.
Andrew Cameron
Internet : andrew@andy.alt.za
X.400 : C=ZA G=Andrew S=Cameron Admd=TELKOM400
This document provides specification for such a scheme, referred to as
"Digest Access Authentication". The encryption method used is the RSA Data
Security, Inc. MD5 Message-Digest Algorithm [3].
ITAR does not limit authentication as much as encryption, (and MD5
code seems to be widely available), so I think this should not be a problem.
Albert Lunde Albert-Lunde@nwu.edu
Putting Albert Lunde's point more emphatically: since Digest Access
Authentication does not provide confidentiality (doesn't use encryption)
it doesn't fall under ITAR at all.
-Allan
Actually, I have one message archived that indicates that MD5 does
come under ITAR - that all crypto comes under ITAR.
I used to have another message tucked away, saying that authentication
came under ITAR, but was far easier to get past the review, than is
encryption. Yes, there is Much misinformation flying about ITAR - the
messages I've seen in the past could be wrong, while Alan's is
correct.
If MD5 is used for auth, MD5 isn't just MD5 anymore - it's not just
digests, it's authentication. Now the US goverment can be kind of
wacked, but in an ideal world (gov't) they will judge a system based
on the purpose to which the algorithms are being put - not the purpose
for which the algorithms were originally intended.
Note that it's also easy to turn MD5 into an encryption system, not
solely into an authentication algorithm. This could explain why some
have said that MD5 Is subject to ITAR. Again, however, since the
intended purpose is only auth, it should not be subjected to
encryption-style scrutiny, when reviewed for export.
"Snefru" is widely available, tho probably not widely used, and uses
MD5 for authentication. The US goverment does not appear to have gone
after the author. I wrote a system using MD5 for auth, inspired by
snefru, but I have no intention of allowing it off campus, at this
point. :(
All in all, ITAR just needs to die, or at least be thoroughly
clarified and weakened. ITAR quite simply shackles US producers of
cryptography (and hence, cryptography-utilizing software), while
leaving numerous other countries running unfettered. Many times, I've
considered writing cryptographic systems to give away on the net, and
concluded I should allow someone outside the US to do it, so everyone
could have access to it. Investors in crypto almost have to feel
similarly (tho I personally don't care about commercial software as
much as the body of free software out there).
Please prove me wrong. I wanna be wrong on this one.
In message v02130500ad0b76285e77@[205.226.39.192] you write:
Dan Stromberg - OAC/DCS strombrg@uci.edu
Just to reiterate: Keyed-MD5 and in general all technologies that are
used soley for authentication and not privacy, are not treated as
munitions under 121.1.XIII.b. I'm not a lawyer, but this is what I've
been told by lawyers.
There was a thread on this subject on cypherpunks about 6-8 weeks ago -
take a look at the archives for more citations on this.
Simon
(defun modexpt (x y n) "computes (x^y) mod n"
(cond ((= y 0) 1) ((= y 1) (mod x n))
((evenp y) (mod (expt (modexpt x (/ y 2) n) 2) n))
(t (mod (* x (modexpt x (1- y) n)) n))))
