A New Internet-Draft is available from the on-line Internet-Drafts directories.
This draft is a work item of the WWW Distributed Authoring and Versioning Working Group of the IETF.
Title: WebDAV Access Control Protocol
Author(s): G. Clemm, A. Hopkins, E. Sedlar, J. Whitehead
Filename: draft-ietf-webdav-acl-07.txt
Pages: 59
Date: 12-Nov-01
This document specifies a set of methods, headers, and message bodies
that define Access Control extensions to the WebDAV Distributed
Authoring Protocol. This protocol permits a client to read and modify
access control lists that instruct a server whether to allow or deny
operations upon a resource (such as HTTP method invocations) by a given
principal.
A URL for this Internet-Draft is:
To remove yourself from the IETF Announcement list, send a message to
ietf-announce-request with the word unsubscribe in the body of the message.
Internet-Drafts are also available by anonymous FTP. Login with the username
"anonymous" and a password of your e-mail address. After logging in,
type "cd internet-drafts" and then
"get draft-ietf-webdav-acl-07.txt".
A list of Internet-Drafts directories can be found in
or ftp://ftp.ietf.org/ietf/1shadow-sites.txt
Internet-Drafts can also be obtained by e-mail.
Send a message to:
mailserv@ietf.org.
In the body type:
"FILE /internet-drafts/draft-ietf-webdav-acl-07.txt".
NOTE:The mail server at ietf.org can return the document in
MIME-encoded form by using the "mpack" utility. To use this
feature, insert the command "ENCODING mime" before the "FILE"
command. To decode the response(s), you will need "munpack" or
a MIME-compliant mail reader. Different MIME-compliant mail readers
exhibit different behavior, especially when dealing with
"multipart" MIME messages (i.e. documents which have been split
up into multiple messages), so check your local documentation on
how to manipulate these messages.
Below is the data which will enable a MIME compliant mail reader
implementation to automatically retrieve the ASCII version of the
Internet-Draft.
(copy of post to mailto:uri@w3.org ).
Hi.
(1) RFC2518 (WebDAV) is based on XML + namespaces and has chosen to use the
namespace name "DAV:" to identify it's elements. Note that "DAV:" *is* a
properly registered URI scheme (see [1])
(2) The XML namespaces recommendation says that an XML namespace is
identified by a URI reference as defined in RFC2396.
(3) RFC2396 gives the following grammar for absolute URIs:
absoluteURI = scheme ":" ( hier_part | opaque_part )
opaque_part = uric_no_slash *uric
"DAV:" doesn't seem to be a valid "opaque_part", because "opaque_part" MUST
start with "uric_no_slash", thus it may not be empty.
(4) I became aware of this mismatch when trying to develop a RELAG NG schema
for WebDAV. James Clark's JING validator rejects the namespace name "DAV:"
as invalid URI. So this has become a real-world problem (maybe it was "just"
academic before).
I think this means that either RFC2396 or RFC2518 need to be fixed.
Feedback appreciated.
Julian
[1] http://www.iana.org/assignments/uri-schemes
Accidentally caught by the spam filter. I've added "jjc@jclark.com" to the
accept2 list.
- Jim
inconsistency
* WebDAV marshals "dav:" URIs that are the name of XML elements as a
{namespace} + {opaque_part} pair. So, for example, "dav:creationdate" is
D:creationdate xmlns:D="dav:" .
The XML Namespaces Recommendation provides a facility to name an element by
a URI/local-name pair. It does not provide a facility to name an element
by a URI. The element
has a name that is a pair consisting of the (non-)URI "dav:" and the local
name creationdate. Nowhere does the XML Namespaces Recommendation say that
you will get anything interesting or useful by concatenating the URI and
the local name. The fact that "dav:creationdate" is a fine URI is
completely irrelevant from the perspective of the XML Namespaces Rec to the
issue of whether "dav:" is a legal namespace identifier.
I don't think the issue is anything to do with whether URIs are
hierarchical. From reading your message, the requirements appear to be as
follows:
- DAV wants to identify elements by a URI not a URI/local name pair
- DAV wants the generated URI for an element D:creationdate/ to be
dav:creationdate
- DAV to generate the URI that identifies an element from the namespace
identifier and local name
You might think that these requirements imply that the namespace identifier
for DAV must be "dav:", but in fact they don't, because there is no
requirement that the method that you use to generate the URI that
identifies an element is to concatenate the namespace identifier and the
local name or the element. You can solve the problem simply by choosing
some other method of generating the URI, which allows the namespace
identifier to be a legal URI, as required by the XML Namespaces Rec.
James
