Hi all
I've had a quick peek in the archives but either I'm missing it or it's not
there. Are there any issues raised by the use of inline styling rather than
using a linked style sheet?
thanks in advance
Julian Scarlett
btw I got my knuckles severely rapped for publicly criticising the fact that
Sheffield's online voting site was inaccessible. This suggest to me that
there are people who subscribe to this list who's main agenda is *not* the
provision of accessible web pages. Thanks folks (you know who you are) for
taking the interest in my postings but it won't stop me voicing my opinions;
I just won't be able to do it from work and this will hamper my efforts to
get a good service for the people of Sheffield. From now on everything that
I say on this list that may be regarded as my employers as controversial
will be done under a pseudonym. ;-)
The information in this email is confidential. The contents may not be disclosed or used by anyone other than the addressee. If you are not the addressee, please tell us by using the reply facility in your email software as soon as possible. Sheffield City Council cannot accept any responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of this message as it has been transmitted over a public network. If you suspect that the message may have been intercepted or amended please tell us as soon as possible.
Linked style sheets are recommended, apparently for reasons of maintenance
and consistence:
"Use linked style sheets rather than embedded styles, and avoid inline style
sheets."
It's difficult to say what practical _accessibility_ implications this might
have. Generally, what's simple and logical and consistent tends to be better
in the long run in all respects, other things being equal. But more
specifically, isolating all CSS from HTML and gathering all CSS rules to a
single file (or a small set of files) makes it much easier to consider
whether the stylistic suggestions are suitable for a particular user or
environment and to construct another style sheet (modified or completely
new) as needed. For example, if you use different fonts in a document for
different ingredients there, it's easier to consider how a _corresponding_
styling could be done using colors, or voice, or other methods, when you
just need to analyze a relatively short CSS file.
Besides, a linked style sheet can be made optional (or "alternate"), so that
the user can switch it off without switching off all CSS. In particular,
with linked style sheets you could write one CSS file that you would very
much like to be applied and another CSS file that is of secondary importance
or otherwise more optional.
Jukka Korpela
TIEKE Tietoyhteiskunnan kehitt?miskeskus ry
Finnish Information Society Development Centre
Salomonkatu 17 A, 10th floor, FIN - 00100 HELSINKI, FINLAND
Inline styles can cause some amusing problems with Netscape 4 - see
in NS4. This is, arguably, an accessibility issue, but IMO less important
than the others Jukka mentioned.
Andrew
snip/
doesn't work at all in Lynx!!!
Bob
ASCII Ribbon Campaign accessBob
NO HTML/PDF/RTF in e-mail accessys@smartnospam.net
NO MSWord docs in e-mail Access Systems, engineers
NO attachments in e-mail, *LINUX powered* access is a civil right
THIS message and any attachments are CONFIDENTIAL and may be
privileged. They are intended ONLY for the individual or entity named
above. If you are not the intended recipient, Please notify the sender as
soon as possible. Please DO NOT READ, COPY, USE, or DISCLOSE this
communication to others and DELETE it from your computer systems. Thanks
What version of Lynx are you using? It displays correctly on my PC running
Lynx 2.8.3
Andrew
Andrew McFarland
UNITE Solutions
well maybe they heard us complain since I just visited and it was working
fine, BTW running 2.8.2 on a Linux OS
Bob
ASCII Ribbon Campaign accessBob
NO HTML/PDF/RTF in e-mail accessys@smartnospam.net
NO MSWord docs in e-mail Access Systems, engineers
NO attachments in e-mail, *LINUX powered* access is a civil right
THIS message and any attachments are CONFIDENTIAL and may be
privileged. They are intended ONLY for the individual or entity named
above. If you are not the intended recipient, Please notify the sender as
soon as possible. Please DO NOT READ, COPY, USE, or DISCLOSE this
communication to others and DELETE it from your computer systems. Thanks
