I hope I did not send this twice. It mentions w3c and lg.
Thanks!
The Boston Blobe
AOL sued by blind Net users
They say service doesn't accommodate their needs
By Hiawatha Bray, Globe Staff, 11/05/99
Nine blind citizens of Massachusetts went to court yesterday
against America Online Inc., in a lawsuit that could force the
redesign of thousands of Internet sites. The citizens joined with
the
National Federation for the Blind to argue that federal law
requires
that AOL design its Internet service so that blind people can use
it.
''Blind people have the same rights as everybody else to take part
in
the information age,'' said federation president Marc Maurer at a
press conference in Boston.
If the suit is successful, AOL would be forced to make its software
compatible with a variety of computer products that let blind
people
''read'' a computer screen. In addition, Maurer hopes the suit will
force similar changes at every Internet retailer, from the smallest
electronic storefront to the largest on-line bookstore.
The case against AOL, filed in US District Court in Boston, rests
on
the federation's reading of the Americans with Disabilities Act, a
law
passed in 1990 that aims to give disabled people access to equal
opportunities in employment and public services.
A section of the law requires ''public accommodations,'' such as
businesses, to make reasonable efforts to make their services
available to disabled people. The federation hopes to convince a
court
that AOL and other Internet-based businesses are public
accommodations
under the law, and must be made accessible.
Although there are legal precedents concerning the need for
businesses
to make facilities and services available to people with handicaps,
lawyers for the federation said they knew of no case involving the
Internet ever going to trial.
AOL spokesman Rich D'Amato refused to discuss details of the
lawsuit,
but said AOL is committed to working with disabled people to make
their software easier to use.
''We have a team of people that are working on these issues and
it's a
top priority for us,'' D'Amato said. He added that the next version
of
AOL software, due for release next year, will be compatible with
screen reading software for blind people.
Concerns about access to the Internet are understandable, given its
burgeoning importance to the economy and society. Forty percent of
all
Americans communicate via the Internet, according to Neilsen
NetRatings. Forrester Research, based in Cambridge, predicts
Americans
will spend $20 billion at on-line retail stores this year, and $184
billion five years from now.
Ben Isaacson, executive director of the Association for Interactive
Media, a trade group that represents 400 Net firms including AOL,
Disney and Yahoo, is worried the suit could lead to government
interference with business on the Internet.
''Web sites shouldn't have to comply with any government regulatory
interest but should be doing self-regulatory programs,'' said
Isaacson. He said his organization has no plans to become involved
in
the case, but added that he would be willing to contact members and
urge them to do more to accommodate disabled Internet users.
''This industry will do anything,'' Isaacson said. ''They will bend
over backward for additional market share.''
Maurer, the federation president, said blind Americans must not be
shut out. ''I'm determined that we will have access,'' he said.
''We
insist on access to everything.''
Larry Goldberg, director of the National Center for Accessible
Media,
based at public television station WGBH in Boston, said his group
has
recently begun working with AOL to make the Internet company's
software accessible to blind people. ''AOL approached us four to
six
months ago, and having recognized that they had a problem, asked if
we
could help them,'' Goldberg said.
Chuck Hitchcock, who designs software for disabled people at the
Center for Applied Special Technology in Peabody, expressed doubt
that
a court would stretch the disabilities act to include the Internet.
''I hope they do,'' he said, ''but I'd be quite surprised.''
But Harvard law professor Elizabeth Bartholet said, ''It makes some
sense in that the ADA is an extraordinarly broad act.'' Bartholet
said
the law specifically requires telephone companies to provide
services
for disabled people; applying it to the Internet may simply be the
next logical step. ''It's not a frivolous issue,'' she said.
AOL is the world's largest Internet service provider with 20
million
users. The service prides itself on its custom-made software, which
many people find much easier to use than other kinds of Internet
software. The AOL software also gives its customers access to a
variety of services not available on the rest of the Internet,
including discussion groups, chat rooms and on-line shopping areas.
But AOL's software lacks features that would make it possible for
blind or visually-impaired people to use the service with screen
reader software that can read pages aloud.
Screen-reader programs are compatible with many computer programs,
such as Microsoft Corp.'s Windows operating system and Apple
Computer
Corp.'s Macintosh operating system. The standard Internet browsers
from Microsoft and Netscape Communications Corp., now owned by AOL,
also work with screen readers.
The AOL software also forces people to use a mouse to go from
feature
to feature on the screen. Blind people generally can't use a
computer
mouse and must rely on the keyboard. Many programs make it possible
to
use the keyboard instead of the mouse to maneuver through the
program.
But many features of the AOL software can only be activated with
the
mouse.
AOL isn't the only company with problems. Goldberg said that only
''a
small handful'' of the Internet's major sites are accessible to
blind
people, even though solutions to the problem are well understood.
The
World Wide Web Consortium in Cambridge, the organization that sets
standards for Web site design worldwide, has created guidelines for
Web site designers to help them make their sites accessible to
blind
people. But most Web sites simply ignore these guidelines.
Brandy Rose of Taunton, one of the plaintiffs in the lawsuit, is a
student at Bristol Community College. She said she wanted to use
AOL
as an aid to her studies, but only got as far as the opening
screen.
''I got that far and the screen reader stopped reading,'' Rose
said.
''So I gave up.''
Theresa Jeraldi of Watertown says she wanted to use AOL's chat
rooms
to stay in touch with her grandchildren. ''But I was told by other
blind people ... not to even bother with it because it was so
inaccessible to the blind.'' Both Rose and Jeraldi have signed on
to
other Internet services.
This story ran on page C01 of the Boston Globe on 11/05/99.
VICUG-L is the Visually Impaired Computer User Group List.
To join or leave the list, send a message to
listserv@maelstrom.stjohns.edu. In the body of the message, simply
type
"subscribe vicug-l" or "unsubscribe vicug-l" without the quotations.
VICUG-L is archived on the World Wide Web at
Hi,
I too thought that Hiawatha Bray did a pretty good job in the Boston Globe
with the NFB / AOL issue, except with regard to the manner in which he
quoted me. He used a small part of one of my quotes to set up the paragraph
that followed.
Of course ADA applies to the Internet, but not to everything about it. At
least not yet.
I don't consider AOL representative of the Internet. I did tell Mr. Bray
that ADA would likely apply if this had been a complaint filed by employees
of AOL who could not gain access to the application in the conduct of their
work or by employees of any organization requiring access to AOL as a job
requirement. I suspect that the Justice Department might consider action if
AOL received federal funds. I view AOL as an application and unfortunately
there are very many inaccessible applications.
Personally, I have little use for AOL other than to have a variety of
Internet log-on options when traveling both within and outside of the United
states. Once connected using an AOL phone number for Internet access, the
application can be minimized so that I can access my regular POP mail
account or use Internet Explorer or another browser to access web content.
Accessibility applies then to IE and the web pages which are accessed. I
would never recommend AOL to anyone who was blind, even for this purpose
since so many other ISP options are available.
By the way, it is probably not a bad thing to have awareness increased by
this sort of action. Too bad the Microsoft news had to break to push
internet access into the background once again.
Chuck
Chuck Hitchcock
Director, National Center on Access
to the General Curriculum and
Chief Education Technology Officer,
CAST, Inc.,
39 Cross Street, Peabody, MA 01960
Email chitchcock@cast.org
Voice 978 531-8555
TTY 978 531-3110
Chuck,
Two thoughts as a follow-up on your message:
You mentioned that the Americans with Disabilities Act might be applicable
to an ISP if it were an issue of reasonable accommodation in the workplace.
My understanding is that there may be a broader angle of applicability as
well. For background take the US Department of Justice's September 1996
opinion http://www.usdoj.gov/crt/foia/tal712.txt on the applicability of
the ADA to the Web: besides state and local government, it also mentions
places of public accommodation and their obligations for communication
access. It will be interesting to see how that is interpreted in US courts.
You also mentioned that there are so many ISP choices available. Sometimes
the most convenient choice for an ISP subscriber would be an ISP that one's
family members, colleagues, or friends are already subscribed to, so as to
take advantage of informal support on initially learning the application,
and to take advantage of features such as instant messaging where more
options might be available among subscribers of the same ISP than among
subscribers of other ISP's.
- Judy
Judy Brewer jbrewer@w3.org +1.617.258.9741 http://www.w3.org/WAI
Director,Web Accessibility Initiative(WAI), World Wide Web Consortium(W3C)
WAI Interest Group home page: http://www.w3.org/WAI/IG
Previous WAI IG Updates: http://www.w3.org/WAI/IG/Overview.html#Updates
Unsubscribe? Send "unsubscribe" subject line: w3c-wai-ig-request@w3.org
Questions? http://www.w3.org/WAI/IG/Overview.html#Uselist or wai@w3.org
Judy and Chuck-
As Judy stated, the AOL case is not just about AOL employees. The Americans
with Disabilities Act also seeks to remove a host of barriers in the
public's access to programs, services and facilities. When a program or
service screens out access based on disability, then it becomes a target. I
am discussing this in the articles I am writing at the request of the
American Bar Association and the National Disability Law Reporter.
Cynthia D. Waddell
Cynthia D. Waddell
ADA Coordinator
City Manager Department
City of San Jose, CA USA
801 North First Street, Room 460
San Jose, CA 95110-1704
(408)277-4034
(408)971-0134 TTY
Chuck,
Two thoughts as a follow-up on your message:
You mentioned that the Americans with Disabilities Act might be applicable
to an ISP if it were an issue of reasonable accommodation in the workplace.
My understanding is that there may be a broader angle of applicability as
well. For background take the US Department of Justice's September 1996
opinion http://www.usdoj.gov/crt/foia/tal712.txt on the applicability of
the ADA to the Web: besides state and local government, it also mentions
places of public accommodation and their obligations for communication
access. It will be interesting to see how that is interpreted in US courts.
You also mentioned that there are so many ISP choices available. Sometimes
the most convenient choice for an ISP subscriber would be an ISP that one's
family members, colleagues, or friends are already subscribed to, so as to
take advantage of informal support on initially learning the application,
and to take advantage of features such as instant messaging where more
options might be available among subscribers of the same ISP than among
subscribers of other ISP's.
- Judy
paragraph
if
United
Judy Brewer jbrewer@w3.org +1.617.258.9741 http://www.w3.org/WAI
Director,Web Accessibility Initiative(WAI), World Wide Web Consortium(W3C)
WAI Interest Group home page: http://www.w3.org/WAI/IG
Previous WAI IG Updates: http://www.w3.org/WAI/IG/Overview.html#Updates
Unsubscribe? Send "unsubscribe" subject line: w3c-wai-ig-request@w3.org
Questions? http://www.w3.org/WAI/IG/Overview.html#Uselist or wai@w3.org
