In the meeting I also said that I would try to document what it looked
like we were doing with regard to "what goes in as level 1 vs level 2 vs
Level 3 etc success criteria.
In the notes below
MACHINE - means machine testable
HIRR - means Human evaluate-able with High Inter Rater Reliability
(meaning that raters who understood the issue and/or the measures would
agree when rating web content on the item.)
POSSIBLE GOAL STATEMENTS FOR CREATING LEVEL 1,2,3 etc SUCCESS CRITERIA
Criteria for Level 1 Success Criteria {All of the criteria should be
true}
- Must be testable (Machine or HIRR) [as per
previous email]
- We want to recommend that Level 1 be done
everywhere [or almost everywhere?]
o Therefore needs to be things that can be done on every site -
no exceptions unless the exception is in the success criteria.
- Important to access - not just relatively minor
usability tuning. If these aren't done - people can't access the
information. (e.g. no captions)
- Should not require much specific technical
expertise - since many sites we would like to achieve at least level 1
do not have much technical depth.
RATIONALE: If we make a Level 1 item that is unreachable for some
sites, then they will not be able to make any claim of any kind as to
access. This would greatly lower incentive to do other items.
Therefore all Level 1 items need to be doable on almost all or all sites
-- and doable on very large and existing sites. This is the MINIMUM.
We encourage everyone to also do level 2. (and to do Level 3 whereever
possible)
Level 2
- Must be testable (Machine or HIRR)
- Things that go beyond Level 1 but that can still be
done on essentially all content on all sites (if designed properly)
- Important and achievable on all sites without great
burden
RATIONALE: These are things that we hope and encourage all sites to do
- and want these to be doable enough that we can ask all managers to
require (i.e. require Level 2 conformance)
Level 3
- Things that are testable (Machine or HIRR)
- Things that can be done on all sites but that would
require extra effort and commitment.
- Don't expect these to be done on most sites. But
would be done on all sites that really want to go the extra mile.
- This sit the first level that would include things
that require a certain level of control over the server or grasp of
programming/technologies fall here? (ex. a typical hosting service won't
allow you to do X or run Y script on their servers)
Additional / Advisory Items
- things that are not testable but are good ideas to
address this checkpoint (good advice)
- things that can't be done on all sites
- things that might be done to target or tune a site
specifically for a disability group who needs this checkpoint
SHOULD THERE BE A LEVEL 4????
- only reason for a level 4 would be to put the
Advisory Items into a Level - instead of moving them to the
non-normative block of information (which would have to happen if they
were not success criteria). Since some listing may ONLY list the
success criteria (and not the non-normative advisory section) making
these level 4 would keep them visible
- to make the advisory items into level 4 items
though, they would have to be played with to make them testable. And
I'm not sure we can do that without making them harder to read and or
less effective.
NOTE: As you go down the levels - you will pick up more and more people
who cannot use a site unless lower level items are implemented. Thus
the lower levels make it easier for some people with disabilities, but
they will make it possible for others, particularly with multiple or
very severe disabilities.
Oh yes.
I also looked at the MUST, SHOULD, MAY and CAN'T USE, HARD
TO USE, EASIER TO USE formats of the WCAG 1.0 guidelines - and
couldn't make them work here.
One thing that we found in our work in the GL group - is that items that
make it easier to use for some people - are critical for others. So
all the items end up being "MUST" or "CAN'T USE WITHOUT" for some
people.
Thus we decided that all checkpoints need to have Level 1 items -- even
if they were hard to write and still make the Machine or HIRR
testability criteria. So we end up with
"the site reviewed the content with the objectives below in mind"
or
"The site asserts that they reviewed the content with the objectives
below in mind"
Or level 2 that are
the user asserts they considered this and did the best they felt was
possible and appropriate."
But we don't want to have checkpoints that don't have any testable
measures that can be applied across sites (or we make some sites that
cannot claim any conformance since L1 is minimum)
AND - we don't want to take some checkpoints off the table for L1 (or
they might not even show up on people's todo list).
Your thoughts?
Gregg
Gregg Vanderheiden Ph.D.
Ind Engr - Biomed - Trace, Univ of Wis
gv@trace.wisc.edu
For a list of our listserves send "lists" to listproc@trace.wisc.edu
I'm confused with the terminology here. "The site
reviewed..."? Should we say, "The site content
was reviewed ..."?
Level 2:
"The user asserts..."? Perhaps, "The developer or
designer asserts..."?
I'm still with the feeling that DOCTYPE should be
in Level 1 success criteria. Additionally, I
think LANG should be placed in Level 1 simply
because we would want the screen readers to read
the information correctly and not arbitrarily.
These two items are easily placed into every site
and can make it easier for the screen readers to
do their jobs.
Thanks,
Lee Roberts
?the site reviewed the content with the
objectives below in mind?
or
?The site asserts that they reviewed the
content with the objectives below in mind?
Or level 2 that are
? the user asserts they considered this and did
the best they felt was possible and appropriate.?
But we don?t want to have checkpoints that don?t
have any testable measures that can be applied
across sites (or we make some sites that cannot
claim any conformance since L1 is minimum)
AND ? we don?t want to take some checkpoints off
the table for L1 (or they might not even show up
on people?s todo list).
Your thoughts?
Gregg
Gregg Vanderheiden Ph.D.
Ind Engr - Biomed - Trace, Univ of Wis
gv@trace.wisc.edu
For a list of our listserves send ?lists? to
listproc@trace.wisc.edu
I think Gregg's summary is an accurate description of how we have made
decisions in the past, and how they should be made in the future.
I still think, after we have agreed on these (or similar) principles,
we should write them up and include a summary in the guidelines
document itself so that readers can gain a greater understanding of
what success criteria are, and how the conformance levels are defined.
By doing so, we reduce (but, realistically, cannot eliminate) the risk
that the docment will be inadvertently misused by those who are
unaware of the rationale underlying the definitions of success
criteria and conformance levels. That is, the guidelines document
should be clear in itself as to how the success criteria and
conformance levels are defined; a reader should not have to search for
our requirements document to obtain this degree of insight (though
naturally, the requirements document will elaborate our thinking to a
far greater extent than any rationale set forth in the guidelines).
Instead of a "level 4", we could simply head the level "advice", as
that is what it is. In that case, we could easily refer to it in
success criteria, as in:
The content has been reviewed, taking into account the advice under
this checkpoint, and is believed to be...
where "advice" is a link to the corresponding advice section for the
particular checkpoint.
which is what we originally intended to provide for in our assurance
requirements (see my earlier message on the subject).
As Gregg pointed out, the "advice" then becomes part of the
requirement in as much as it has to be taken into consideration in
conducting the review required by the level 2 success criteria. As
Gregg also said, with this approach, the advice can't easily be
omitted from checklists.
Thus my proposal is:
Call the "advisory" section "advice"; explain its purpose in the
introduction. Explain, in the introduction or an appendix, the
rationale behind the success criteria and conformance levels.
One more proposal and I shall finish for the night: for the purpose of
facilitating transitions, we should document precisely what
conformance claims under WCAG 2.0 can be made in respect of content
that meets levels A, double-A and tripple-A of WCAG 1.0, including the
"required" technologies/features list as per checkpoint 5.2. This
should make it easy for developers who have already conformed to WCAG
1.0 at some level, to make a corresponding claim on WCAG 2.0, and to
know which additional requirements they will have to meet in order to
conform to WCAG 2.0 at a higher level.
Thanks Lee
Both of those catches are good and what was intended.
Gregg
Gregg Vanderheiden Ph.D.
Ind Engr - Biomed - Trace, Univ of Wis
gv@trace.wisc.edu
Behalf Of Lee Roberts
criteria
I'm confused with the terminology here. "The site reviewed..."? Should
we say, "The site content was reviewed ..."?
Level 2:
"The user asserts..."? Perhaps, "The developer or designer asserts..."?
I'm still with the feeling that DOCTYPE should be in Level 1 success
criteria. Additionally, I think LANG should be placed in Level 1 simply
because we would want the screen readers to read the information
correctly and not arbitrarily. These two items are easily placed into
every site and can make it easier for the screen readers to do their
jobs.
Thanks,
Lee Roberts
"the site reviewed the content with the objectives below in mind"
or
"The site asserts that they reviewed the content with the objectives
below in mind"
Or level 2 that are
" the user asserts they considered this and did the best they felt was
possible and appropriate."
But we don't want to have checkpoints that don't have any testable
measures that can be applied across sites (or we make some sites that
cannot claim any conformance since L1 is minimum)
AND - we don't want to take some checkpoints off the table for L1 (or
they might not even show up on people's todo list).
Your thoughts?
Gregg
Gregg Vanderheiden Ph.D.
Ind Engr - Biomed - Trace, Univ of Wis
gv@trace.wisc.edu
For a list of our listserves send "lists" to listproc@trace.wisc.edu
As a basis for today's discussion, I think we should keep in mind :
a.. We are righting guidelines for Peaple with impairments, and not just
to increase site usability. The checkpoint must address the needs of people
with cognitive impairments.
b.. We have an agreement on how to set success criteria
Resolved at the moment (I think) according to
Criteria for Level 1 Success Criteria {All of the criteria should be true}
- Must be testable (Machine or HIRR) [as per previous
email]
- We want to recommend that Level 1 be done everywhere
[or almost everywhere?]
o Therefore needs to be things that can be done on every site - no
exceptions unless the exception is in the success criteria.
- Important to access - not just relatively minor
usability tuning. If these aren't done - people can't access the
information. (e.g. no captions)
Level 2
- Must be testable (Machine or HIRR)
- Things that go beyond Level 1 but that can still be
done on essentially all content on all sites (if designed properly)
Level 3
- Things that are testable (Machine or HIRR)
All the best,
Lisa Seeman
UnBounded Access
Widen the World Web
