The issue of why use server side image maps came up on the GL list recently
(WCAG1 P1 checkpoints 1.2 and 9.1).
The bit about "except where the regions cannot be defined with an available
geometric shape" is, in fact, meant to apply to maps where each and every
pixel is, in effect, a different hot link. As Jim points out, the header
graphic at King County hardly qualifies to use this techique. We are taking
about geographic maps, such as services provided by MapBlast and the like.
the regions (lik all regions) can be specified in aclient-side map. But using this server-side map with equivalent links at thebottom of the page provides a skip navigation method. A dilemma!Jimhttp://jimthatcher.com512-306-0931
Server Side Image Maps (was: images / alt and image maps)Hi Bruce,
Actually, the maps at MapBlast are image buttons and according to HTML 4:
quote When a pointing device is used to click on the image, the form is
submitted and the click coordinates passed to the server endquote . So
they behave like server-side image maps but technically are not. Do you know
of other examples of server-side maps in use that are not image buttons?
You said that the provision about available geometric shapes applies to maps
where each pixel is, in effect, a separate hot link. If so, how then can one
hope to have equivalent text links for the hot spots?
I want to emphasize that my example of King County was not raising the issue
of whether or not that could be a client site map; instead I was pointing
out that making their navigation banner a server-side map with text links at
the bottom of the page provided a "skip navigation" technique and certainly
did not interfere with access.
Jim
jim@jimthatcher.com
Accessibility Consulting
512-306-0931
The issue of why use server side image maps came up on the GL list
recently (WCAG1 P1 checkpoints 1.2 and 9.1).
The bit about "except where the regions cannot be defined with an
available geometric shape" is, in fact, meant to apply to maps where each
and every pixel is, in effect, a different hot link. As Jim points out, the
header graphic at King County hardly qualifies to use this techique. We are
taking about geographic maps, such as services provided by MapBlast and the
like.
rebecca@cwa.co.nz , w3c-wai-ig@w3.org Date: Fri, 25 May 2001
06:22:27 -0500 Message-ID:
MABBJNHDAODJNEJPGBCLGELKCCAA.thatch@attglobal.net Subject: RE: images /
alt and image maps Hi Rebecca, You asked for opinons - OK! Redundant text
links should be available for server-side image maps; no reason for
redundant links for client-side maps - You must use alt text for each of the
areas. 7.4.2 is preceeded with "until user agents ...." and user agents are
recognizing alt text on areas. I think it is wrong to also have text links
when you have alt text on the areas ... Opinion. An example I used in the
"web course" (http://jimthatcher.com/webcourse2.htm) for me raises a very
interesting issue about image maps. The King County Washington site
(http://www.metrokc.gov/) uses a sever-side map for its primary navigation
and has equivalent text links at the bottom of the page. Section 508 would
not allow this because the regions (lik all regions) can be specified in a
client-side map. But using this server-side map with equivalent links at the
bottom of the page provides a skip navigation method. A dilemma! Jim
According to Web Content Accessibility Guidelines, the things you have
described are server side image maps. (The definition of image maps at
functional, not code based.)
In actual fact for most maps it is not terribly hard to have a client-side
map in principle, using vector-based technology. Roadmaps are in essence
vector diagrams. But there are certainly some kinds of image maps where the
most appropriate non-visual interface is different - perhaps form-based, or
text links.
And as Jim points out, reducing the navigation overload is helpful.
cheers
Charles
Server Side Image Maps (was: images / alt and image maps)Hi Bruce,
Actually, the maps at MapBlast are image buttons and according to HTML 4:
quote When a pointing device is used to click on the image, the form is
submitted and the click coordinates passed to the server endquote . So
they behave like server-side image maps but technically are not. Do you know
of other examples of server-side maps in use that are not image buttons?
You said that the provision about available geometric shapes applies to maps
where each pixel is, in effect, a separate hot link. If so, how then can one
hope to have equivalent text links for the hot spots?
I want to emphasize that my example of King County was not raising the issue
of whether or not that could be a client site map; instead I was pointing
out that making their navigation banner a server-side map with text links at
the bottom of the page provided a "skip navigation" technique and certainly
did not interfere with access.
