Hello fellows,
I m new to this grp, i m a student of computer science, i m using tidy html to xhtml converter, i m having some problems in it.. i want to convert html to xml and in tht whenever &amp;nbsp; comes...xml is not properly converted b/c xml cannot identify &amp;nbsp;, so can neone plz tell me how to convert &amp;nbsp; using html tidy converter....
waiting for ur reply...
Thnx
Khurram
Do You Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Greetings - Send FREE e-cards for every occasion!
Thanks for ur reply...
consider this html
Now, when i use tidy to convert this html to xml, the resultant xml is
Now when this xml is viewed in Internet Explorer 5..the following error comes
error : cannot identify &amp;nbsp; at p &amp;nbsp; /p
so what should i do then...how should i avoid this error.
thnx..
waiting for ur reply.
Khurram
You obviously have a strong grasp of english, yet choose to use abbreviations which obscure the meaning of your message and make reading it difficult.
Although punctuation may be too much to ask, consider full words. Then, it won't cause actual pain to try to read your message and you might get a response.
d'u 0 what i mean?
And hey... how about examples? Leave some samples of what you're trying to convert, what it looks like, what it *should* look like, and we can see where the tool is lacking.
Allan
Do You Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Greetings - Send FREE e-cards for every occasion!
OK.
What do you mean? Do you mean generic XML, or XHTML?
Your "XML" looks suspiciously like HTML or XHTML. ...
I'll take a guess -- your resultant filename is something like
"myfile.xml", and there is no DOCTYPE declaration?
If that's the case, what do you expect? Generic XML only knows about
four "built-in" entities: , , , and &amp;amp;. Now you're
throwing it one it's never heard of: &amp;nbsp;!
You haven't been clear about what you're trying to do. *Why* have you
given your file a .xml extension (if that's the case!)? What are you
trying to do with it?
If you really want it to be .xml, then make sure it references a DTD
where nbsp is declared (like, say, one of the XHTML DTDs. :).
/Jelks
