EOWG Agenda, September 17, 1999
1. Outreach updates
2. Action item checks
3. Review new version of first section of "How People With Disabilities Use
the Web"
the first section has been substantially revised based on last week's
feedback
notes from last meeting are available at
other sections of the note still to be revised or added
4. [possibly] latest version of WCAG curriculum [depends on Chuck's ISP --
he will send URI if available before the meeting].
Regards,
Judy
Date: Wed, 15 Sep 1999 19:25:11 -0400
From: Judy Brewer jbrewer@w3.org
Subject: Reminder, EOWG meeting September 17
Reminder, we will be meeting again this Friday, Sept 17. Additional
materials coming before then.
Regards,
Judy
Time: 8:30 - 10:00 a.m. US EDT
Judy Brewer jbrewer@w3.org +1.617.258.9741 http://www.w3.org/WAI
Director, Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI) International Program Office
World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)
MIT/LCS Room NE43-355, 545 Technology Square, Cambridge, MA, 02139, USA
The Electronic Book conference at the National Institute of Science and
Technology has 600 registered. It is next Tuesday thru Wednesday, in
Gaithersburg, MD. Thursday morning will be spent on details of Open Ebook.
I have ordered quick tips cards for all.
Here is an audience for whom electronic book delivery isn't necessarily
related to accessibility. For some, the new game machines are suitable
delivery platforms, costing only a few hundred dollars, with CD players,
decent graphics, graphic accelerators, and internet connections.
The co-sponsor is the National Information Standards Organization.
NISO is one of the principal sponsoring organizations for the Digital
Talking Book 3 application for whom I've been the lead DTD designer.
This application uses SMIL 1.0 for synchronizing the professional
narrations with the structured XML markup of the book.
Many aspects of e-books will be addressed, in addition to accessibility.
George Kerscher will be our advocating speaker.
Editing meta-notation:
XdeleteX
_insert_
?question?
1. How Different Disabilities Affect Access to the Web
Para 2: ...Limitations can include injury-related and aging-related
conditions, and can be temporaryX X,_ _or chronic. An example of an
injury-related limitation that is temporary for some people and chronic for
others _is _repetitive stress syndrome.
Para 3: Different disabilities sometimes require similar accommodations.
For instance, _full keyboard support is necessary_ for both someone who
is blind and someone who cannot use his or her hands_._ Xrequire full
keyboard support for the Xcommands in browsers and authoring tools,X
since they both have difficulty using a mouse but can use different
assistive technologies to activate commands _and keys_ that are supported
by a standard keyboard interface _to allow authoring and browsing._
Para 4: The number and severity of disabilities tend_s_ to increase as
people Xwith Xage ...
Learning Disabilities
another bullet:
missing outline and summary information
Impairments of intelligence
Para 2: ?double negative?...and may benefit from the level of language on a
site not being unnecessarily complex for the site's intended
purpose.
...and may benefit from summary descriptions, and means to
suppress detail.
Regards/Harvey
1:
for:
Individuals with learning disabilities may have difficulty processing
written language or images when read visually, or spoken language when
heard, or numbers when read visually or heard. Specific learning
disabilities can affect the ability to focus.
Could we instead say
Most people prefer things to be stated simply.
Individuals with learning disabilities may have difficulty reading or
comprehending text especially if complex.
They may not be confident with, or able to use numbers.
Specific learning disabilities can affect the ability to concentrate.
2:
Could we include a paragraph about the difficulty in searching the www for
those with LD, and the need to provide external links that help resolve this
problem?
eg:
Barriers that people with learning disabilities may encounter on the Web
include:
difficulty browsing and searching
too much information per page
too many links per page
lack of alternative modalities for information on Web sites, for instance
lack of alternative text that can be converted to audio to supplement
visuals, or the lack of captions for audio
distracting visual or audio elements that cannot easily be turned off
lack of clear and consistent organization of Web sites
jay@peepo.com
a www for those learning to read.
Please send us links to your favourite websites.
Our site www.peepo.com is a drive thru.
When you see a link of interest, click on it.
Move the mouse to slow down.
It is a graphical aid to browsing the www.
We value your comments.
