I would like to find out what is adding extraneous markup to tables
(thead, tbody, rowspan="1" colspan="1"),
Most of the specs in which this happens (e.g., XLink, XPointer)
are written in XML using the xmlspec DTD and then transformed
into HTML using an XSL stylesheet. I imagine the extraneous
markup is being added by the stylesheet. Perhaps the stylesheet
could be modified to avoid this sometimes, but given that the
authoritative version is the XML and the HTML is generated, I'm
a little uncertain what harm is done by the extra markup.
I'm also aware of some HTML editors that tend to write such
extraneous markup for tables which is another reason why I'm
wondering.
and whether we can use
divs rather than tables for examples in XML specs.
Good question. (I think that the only way to get a shaded
background in some browsers might be to use tables, but that's
only a guess on my part.)
paul
Removing the optional elements thead and tbody and the default
values rowspan="1" colspan="1" would save 9k [1] of file size
in the three parts of XML Schema taken together. (It's too late
for XML 1.0 Second Edition, but XLink, XPointer, MathML, and
XSLT are still in development and exhibit those quirks.)
[1]
World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) - http://www.w3.org/
I'd rather leave these in, seems to be cleaner markup than just relying
on th to distinguish the head.
I just looked into this for MathML which uses a slightly modified
xml-spec DTD and stylesheets which have diverged but have their origins
in Eduardo Gutentag's and James Clark's original xml-spec stylesheets.
The DTD has
rowspan NMTOKEN "1"
so that after DTD processing every th has a rowspan attribute.
The stylesheet copies most attributes from the source to the output
(as the xmlspec table model is largely similar to HTMLs)
The stylesheet could special case this
for example. (Maybe I'll do that anyway) but an alternative would be for
the DTD to declare it as #IMPLIED rather than giving a default.
David
This message has been checked for all known viruses by Star Internet delivered
through the MessageLabs Virus Control Centre. For further information visit
/ David Carlisle davidc@nag.co.uk was heard to say:
Ugh. That looks unnecessary. Eve, did you have a specific reason for
not making this #IMPLIED?
Be seeing you,
norm
Norman.Walsh@East.Sun.COM | All the good maxims already exist in the
Technology Development Group | world; we just fail to apply
Sun Microsystems, Inc. | them.--Pascal
/ Susan Lesch lesch@w3.org was heard to say:
The thead and tbody elements have structural significance. I think
removing them to save 9k out of 1.4M (a savings of 0.0006% if I'm
not mistaken) is unwarranted. :-)
Be seeing you,
norm
Norman.Walsh@East.Sun.COM | The common excuse of those who bring
Technology Development Group | misfortune on others is that they desire
Sun Microsystems, Inc. | their good.--Vauvenargues
I probably inherited it from some HTML table fragment somewhere. I have
tried to have as little to do with the table definitions as possible.
:-) I'd be happy to change it; consider this officially requested.
Eve
Eve Maler +1 781 442 3190
Sun Microsystems XML Technology Center eve.maler @ east.sun.com
