What is the procedure for entering character entities other
than those on the accented characters list.
For example thorn is missed as well as the representations
for cent, pound sterling, euro, copyright etc.
Perhaps the page that deals with accented characters can be expanded
to include all the entities (ie generalized). Personally I would
like to see pallets for this but for the moment if the procedure
was clearly documented (and a help menu pointer to same)
that would suffice.
John Russell, VE3LL@RAC.CA
Be sure to check your HTML markup
tags by using validator.w3.org
[DJW:] [DJW:]
The normal OS mechanism, e.g. for Windows,
ALT-0163, or cut and paste from charmap.
For GBP, of course, you just type in, if you
are using a British keyboard.
[DJW:]
There are around 60,000 numeric entities. XML only has
four or five named character entities common to all
applications.
[DJW:]
If it's not clearly documented, and you are using Windows,
complain to Microsoft.
[DJW:] Chinese on a non-Chinese build of Windows is more
difficult (Amaya doesn't support such characters yet, though);
you have to enter them into a form in IE and then cut and
paste them (works to get them into paintbrush). Actually,
Mozilla appears to hook into the the Chinese input method that
is provided for IE and allows one to compose in Chinese without
subterfuges. This is for NT; I think that Win 98 Unicode
support is less good.
Character input methods really ought not to be the realm of
individual applications.
[DJW:]
--------------------------- DISCLAIMER ---------------------------------
Any views expressed in this message are those of the individual sender,
except where the sender specifically states them to be the views of BTS.
charmap does ok at direct entry of character as single byte
into a file ... but what if one prefers the character entity as
&amp;Oslash; or the &amp;###; style of entry. ???
Amaya will be doing this next round and i am just suggesting
that they have a method that includes all (latin-1) entities.
currently some are missed in the standadard acentted entry way
and a few more are missed in the optional method.
at present i am only concerned with the latin-1 entities. If some
can be done Amaya way , then why not all
once agn -- not looking at pure entry but for the named character entity
method using &amp; and ; as bracketing
John Russell, VE3LL@RAC.CA
Be sure to check your HTML markup
tags by using validator.w3.org
