Why not let Tidy allow me to code the "at" sign as @ and list web-page e-mail as
me@mydomain.com
rather than Tidy auto-converting it to me@mydomain.com . This would offer simple, moderate protection against robots that harvest e-mail addresses.
Fred said
Why not let Tidy allow me to code the "at" sign as @ and list web-page
e-mail as
me@mydomain.com
rather than Tidy auto-converting it to mailto:me@mydomain.com
me@mydomain.com . This would offer simple, moderate protection against
robots that harvest e-mail addresses.
I would support a request for feature to that effect. Go to
Rick Parsons
Bristol, England
"Fred" said
Why not let Tidy allow me to code the "at" sign as @...
and Rick Parsons replied
I would support a request for feature to that effect.
But (a) we don't need it, and (b) there isn't the slightest reason to
suspect that it would accomplish its intended goal of defeating spammers.
Let's take (b) first. The aim is to write
name&amp;#54;host.subdomain.domain
and thereby defeat spammers looking for name@host...
But all a spammer has to do is pick up any of the free programs out there
that handle HTML, such as tidy, and have it spit out attribute values and
plain text, and search the result. I'm aware of HTML parsers in C, Erlang,
Mercury, Smalltalk, and a few other languages, carefully written to hack
the kind of garbage that's out there. (One of them uses no fewer than 16
stacks, because lots of pages don't nest their tags properly.) Indeed, if
the spammer just cleans the page up using Tidy (even if it DOES use this
kluge), then any of the free SGML parsers around could be used. It'd take
me about 30 minutes to whip up a program to work around this kind of kluge
AND test it enough.
(a) We DO NOT NEED ANY CHANGE TO Tidy to accomplish this hack.
Assuming that the output contains no CDATA sections, then a trivial
sed -e 's/@/\@/g'
will do the job, because an @ sign can occur in
- plain text(change wanted)
- an attribute value(change wanted)
- a comment(change wanted or harmless)
- a processing instruction(potentially harmful)
- a CDATA section(definitely harmful)
and processing instructions are extremely rare in HTML, and tend not to
contain @ signs when they do occur. Using AWK or Perl instead of sed,
we could even cope with processing instructions and CDATA sections.
We don't need any feeping creaturism. Tidy is complicated enough;
things that can be done _outside_ Tidy using trivial scripts should
be done outside Tidy.
But should everyone be left to invent their own wheels?
No, there should be a scripts/contrib/ directory with examples
of problems that can be solved this way and how they can be solved.
I agree with many of the fine suggestions Richard has made over the years,
and to make the point, I have now added a Tracker for the Tidy project to
track user contributions :
And have entered Richard's suggestion for obfuscating the "at" sign, as the
first item in this Tracker.
In time, I suspect we will create a User Contributed Scripts directory in
both CVS and the Tidy releases. But I will wait for a few more
contributions before doing that.
Have at it (maybe someone else would like to browse the Tidy mailing list
archives for such suggestions...). Let me know of suggestions of how to
improve the Tracker categories and groups.
Regards, Terry
As a unix bigot, I am inclined to agree. Unfortunately I have to do my web
development on a wintel box where we don't have nice things like sed, awk
and decent scripting. (I know you can tell me about environments under
wintel which have all these nice features, and I use some of them. My point
is that Joe MS User does not)
You may also be right about techniques that can be used to defeat the
objective. The only thing I know is that I have picked up a lot less spam
since I used the @ technique.
Rick Parsons
Bristol, England
While I believe this conclusion is just wrong, how should we integrate
such a feature into HTML Tidy? Add a new option
keep-at-sign-escaped: yes | [no]
This would just bloat the configuration possibilities in HTML Tidy, it's
been hard enough to get an overview on them even before I started to add
options. I don't see the actual benefit.
