Here is a summary of the discussion at the February 26 2003 Techniques
teleconference. Reminder: There will be no meeting on March 5 due to the
Technical Plenary. We will resume on March 12.
We began by continuing the discussion of text equivalents in HTML, and
proposed a possible way to recommend use of "alt", "title", and "longdesc":
* "alt" is a mandatory text equivalent for img that should always
be present
* "title" is supplementary textual information on most elements
* "longdesc" is preferred over "title" as supplemental text
equivalent for img (i.e., we don't recommend "title" for img although it
is generally recommended elsewhere)
There are User Agent issues with "alt" and "title" used together that need
further exploration and may affect the recommendations presented above.
Next we discussed definitions of "long documents" and "major sections" from
the guidelines:
* We need these terms to be defined in WCAG
* General discussion of what they could mean, and examples of
difficulties in arriving at a general meaning
* Considered how and when paragraphs, headings, and lists should be
used to meet these requirements
* Propose that "content" replace "document" since "document" is very
hard to define
We tabled other agenda items.
Action Item: Everyone - Look for examples of sites that do and do not
organize themselves into "major sections" and keep themselves from being
"long documents". In the meeting we considered Yahoo, Amazon, and EBay, it
was quite instructive. It would be good to review sites from different
industries.
Michael Cooper
Accessibility Project Manager
Watchfire
1 Hines Rd
Kanata, ON K2K 3C7
Canada
Note that img is not the only HTML entity that can refer to an
image. Think also of input and button, and of course object.
Reasons, please?
An enormous range of user agents support title, including nearly
every browser in use in the last three years save for Netscape 4 and
currently-released builds of Safari. Lynx even supports title on
certain elements.
Virtually no user agents support longdesc, though, IIRC, both the
leading screen readers, iCab, and Mozilla/NN7 do.
title is very easy to add, almost trivially so. Authors who like
title (and this includes a great many indie Web developers) put
titles on everything. longdesc requires the creation of a separate
document, which is then called by the longdesc attribute.
Few authoring tools make adding longdesc easy.
Moreover, the *need* for that much writingspace-- longdesc is
essentially unlimited-- is actually rare. I would wager that *most*
images used online-- *most*-- can be adequately rendered in text
equivalents using alt and title. Few indeed require longdesc.
WAI has an inexplicable bias against title, no doubt because it can
be used virtually anywhere in HTML, making it Not Really Our Kind of
Thing Here--
-- and an inexplicable insistence that longdesc is a really great
thing and *what fools those mortals be* for not using it more.
longdesc isn't a mandatory attribute of img and you can't force
people to use it.
And they are?
Remember, WCAG 2.0 must not be custom-crafted to work around Jaws
incompatibilities, to draw a likely example.
How can a document that is not "long" have "major sections"?
Joe Clark | joeclark@joeclark.org
Author, _Building Accessible Websites_
But that still leaves some images
that require a longer description
and those images can freely and happily take longdesc.
readers speak the contents of ALT or TITLE attributes *automatically*
(depending on what the individual user chooses for his or her settings).
Fix the screen readers. Don't write WCAG 2.0 to work around the bugs
in (inevitably) Jaws, which to this day cannot handle reasonably
likely combinations of valid HTML, like img alt="" title=""
longdesc="" / or-- heaven help us-- the same HTML inside a
title="" /a .
one another, either-- you get one or the other. Which brings me to the
longdesc attribute. The fact that the longdesc points to another file
gives me an option as a user: I can choose to listen to that description
or not.
That's a screen-reader issue. It has nothing to do with WCAG 2.0's
preferred authoring practices.
Remember, *the way Jaws screws up Web pages* should not be the basis
for writing Web Content Accessibility Guidelines.
That's from the user's point of view-- at least *this* user's point of
view.
That user's tools are broken. Of course, it's what a lot of people
are stuck with, but whose problem is that?
If the developer feels it's essential to present the extended
description, the easiest way is simply to put it on the screen as text--
that is, to use the text as part of the page and information design.
No sighted Web designer would do that, nor should they have to.
I venture to say that in such cases many users who *don't* have
disabilities will benefit from the presence of the extended description.
Doubtful in the extreme, and more likely to trigger angry
complaints.
Nice touch.
Joe Clark | joeclark@joeclark.org
Author, _Building Accessible Websites_
