Hi Everyone,
I have a questionnaire within which the questions can have 1 of 4 types
of answers. Answers can be either textbox, dropdown list, radio
buttons, or checkboxes. The problem lies within the multi-answer types
(radio buttons and checkboxes), because I can't associate the question
text with them. Furthermore, if I associate their respective answer
text, then the singleton answer types (textbox and dropdown list) have
no labels.
From what I could find with my own research, the only solution to the
problem is to use FIELDSET and LEGEND. The problem with this solution
is that FIELDSET puts boxes around everything within the FIELDSET, and
there is no way to turn off the border. So, for now, what I did was to
conditionally associate the question text with the answer - when the
answer is either a textbox or dropdown list. In cases where the answer
is a set of radio buttons or checkboxes, I associate the answer text
with its respective radio button or checkbox.
If you can provide me with any other solutions, or input of any kind on
this issue, it would be greatly appreciated.
Thanks,
Scott
I'm not 100% I followed exactly what your problem is, so please
forgive me if I'm giving obvious answers...not trying to sound
patronising, simply trying to cover all bases first...
Boxes as in visual boxes ? Use CSS
fieldset {
border: none;
Look at the source of the below test page...maybe that will shed a bit
more light into the issue...
Patrick
Patrick H. Lauke
Webmaster / University of Salford
Re-reading your original question, it may be useful to add the
following to my (fieldset-centric) reply:
Fieldset should be used when you have multiple inputs relating
to the same question (ideal example would be radio buttons or
checkboxes). In the case of a single textbox or dropdown list,
you wouldn't need to use a fieldset (unless it's to logically
group multiple questions within a single topic area), so a normal
label associtated with the textbox of select should suffice.
Patrick
Patrick H. Lauke
Webmaster / University of Salford
