Principle 1: All information must be available entirely through visual,
auditory, or tactile methods or in any combination required by the user.
Principle 2: Capture structure and implied meaning (semantics) in markup
or in a data model.
These are going to be somewhat "academic" in tone/content. I think that
brevity is permissible so long as subsequent materials elucidate for
those to whom this sounds "high-falutin'". I recommend leaving out
"implied" and either "meaning" or "semantics". The "implied meaning"
seems to apply (mostly?) to the uses of structure/presentation to convey
semantics. "Content" probably doesn't have markup/datamodel requirements
but structure/presentation does? Thus the "information" in Principle 1
and the "semantics" in 2 must both be revealed in accordance with 1. So
in effect Principle 1 might say that semantics, whether explicit as in
content or implied through structure/presentation must be... The
structure is "information" and the "presentation" might well be. The
general/abstract case is that *all* semantic content must be available.
So in a way Principle 2 would be redundant if Principle 1 were somewhat
expanded?
Principle 3: Design for ease of comprehension, browsing and navigation
I'm having a lot of trouble with this one, particularly with the
inclusion of "browsing" which seems to me to be a subset of
"navigation"? Mainly, I think the directive to "design for ease..." is
essentially impossible to yield agreed-upon methods/goals since "make it
simple but not too simple" implies that for some of us "ease of
comprehension" is hampered by simplisticism.
OTOH I think ease of navigation is indeed quite central to these
guidelines.
Principle 4: Design user interfaces for device independence
I believe this will be the saving grace of our goal of Universal Design
*if we can provide acceptable/practical/usable guidance*. Perhaps
Bristol will help clarify if we have any chance to continue pursuing
this goal. If stuff like WAP captures a handhold on handhelds it may be
difficult to preclude multiple proprietary Webs in lieu of achieving
accessibility via Principle 4.
Principle 5: Compensate for older technologies and missing or
incompletely implemented features of user agents
I guess I still think this doesn't rise to the level of a "Principle"
since in our ivory tower older technologies are superceded technologies,
failings of user agents are temporary and we don't want to modify the
Principles just because the telephone operators no longer must insert
plugs into some spot on a bank of receptacles or turn a hand crank to
ring one's bell.
This is fun!
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
AG::
Note that the use of the words 'all' and 'entirely' in the above are in
conflict with the principles of reasonable accomodation and effective
communication. Besides, modifiers detract. Strike these words and it is a
powerful statement.
The use of "visual, auditory, or tactile" as defining the space of sensory
options is technology-specific. There is widely available technology in
these areas, but the general principle includes other sensory modes
including haptic, vestibular, and thermal sensations, along with direct
electrical stimulation of neurons. Targeting all the above three senses is
a strategy, not principle (in principle).
A problem is that I don't know how to state the general principle in the
positive. It takes a double negative, to the best of my ability to
articulate it. It is that "Comprehending the information shall not depend
on something the user can't do." From this we derive the strategy stated a
Principle #1. And then add a parallel strategy addressing cognitive barriers.
Note that "or in any combination required by the user" is unnecessarily
restrictive and not a valid part of the requirement as stated. If the
information is completely comprehensible in the user's choice among
single-sense presentations, the requirement has been met. The inability to
provide perfect equivalents makes it easier in practical terms for the
information source to deliver the information in two out of three senses
than in just one. So because of this supply-side cost factor, it is
natural that the graceful degradation sequence flows from "all" through
"two" on the way to "one" of the above sensory channels. Because at each
step you get less 'graceful' and more 'degradation,' in most actual
situations.
AG::
Yes, for the right definition of 'information' the second principle is a
consequence of the first.
However, it doesn't mean that we don't need to break the master principle
down into two facets: how to meet this requirement as it affects small
chunks of information, and how to meet the requirements as it affects
structure, i.e. the content or semantics that are disclosed through the
association of chunks with other chunks.
Technical note: The satisfaction of Principle #1 does in practice generate
requirements of a "markup or data model" nature. The classic example of
this is text alternatives for image data. Here there is a structure of
equivalence relationship. The markup or data model has to communicate what
text is equivalent to what image. Given that raw sound and image data can
convey information, and that some of this information can be captured in
textual 'equivalents,' there is a built-in requirement that there be at
least enough structural model to capture the equivalence relationships.
Note 2: The peephole effect is the clearest image I know of to explain why
the structure relating different mini- or micro-chunks of information needs
to be articulated well. [For 'articulated' read "spelled out."]
The data/information chunk that has focus, i.e. it is in display and
occupies the user's foreground attention, is contextualized in the GUI
usage pattern by bits on the screen and in the eyes-free scenario by
concepts remembered by the user. The two main questions that this context
answers are "where am I?" and "what is this all about?" The structure
(information atom connections) has to be comprehensible in both of these
alternative views. In order to support both views with low rates of error
or information loss, it is [very helpful to practically necessary] to make
the patterns of connection explicit or machine-interpretable so that the
morphing can be carried out correctly by automatic processes executed by a
computer.
The concrete example to illustrate this is the cell-to-header
relationships in tables. Effective table adaptation techniques make it
easy for the user to maintain memory of the header context as they read the
cell particulars.
AG::
Principle 3 is also related to Principle 1. There is an adage "the proof
of the pudding is in the eating." Principle 3 is the eating that proves
the Principle 1 pudding. You often cannot define "all the information"
statically to a sufficient degree, so this operational check is a required
piece of the solution.
Browsing differs from navigation in that it includes absorbing some of the
base content, marbled through the motion and vice versa. Nibble, move,
nibble is the browsing cycle. Each part informs the other. You don't know
which link to follow next until you have absorbed some of the actual
content that frames the links in this page. And you can't read what you
need to read next without exercising the path-control option of following a
hyperlink.
As we have learned from "click here" the labels on the hyperlinks are not
sufficient out of context. This is true not only for this extreme example.
AG::
Insensitivity to the display horizon (see above talking about explicit
structure and peephole effects) is what the mobile device needs for the
content to be equally appealing as in the large-display context.
On the other hand, if the publishers prepare alternate presentations for
desktop and mobile displays, we at least get to pick the one that works on
a consumer by consumer basis. The eyes-free consumer subscribes to the
mobile web; the verbally-challenged consumer to the playstation.
Even if the retailing of content goes to multiple forms (c.f. Radio, TV,
Magazines, Newprint) there will still be demand from the information
sources for a common mode at the OEM or B2B interface. This is why one of
the first XML applications was for newswire stories. The civil right we
seek is addressed if individuals can opt to tap into the universal source
form as an option to the targeted presentation.
This is implied by #4. The 'device' seen by the page includes the
client-side software.
I agree in large measure with William's comments. Though it would be
possible, in principle (if the pun may be thus excused) to subsume all of
the requirements under a single overarching maxim, for purposes of
grouping the more concrete requirements and elucidating the nature of what
constitutes accessible design this would be highly unhelpful.
We need to arrive at a balance between generality and specificity in
formulating the highest-level requirements; these serve as categories
within which to organise the more concrete desiderata. This reasoning
justifies writing principles 1 and 2 as separate requirements.
The inclusion of "browsing" in principle 4 has its origins in T.V. Raman's
doctoral thesis, where it is used in contradistinction to "navigation".
Essentially, there is a difference between navigating (crudely expressed,
finding one's way to a particular point in a document, to stress the
spatial metaphor) and browsing the document's contents. In the latter
activity, one is reaing the document non-sequentially, for instance by
concentrating on particular features or structural components. For
example, in perusing a journal article, one might at first read only the
headings, look to the footnotes to determine which references are being
cited, and then direct one's attention to particular sections of interest.
This is different from merely navigating the document--that is to say,
searching for particular material within it, for instance via the table of
contents or other navigational apparatus.
I think it is important to recognize that structural markup serves as a
basis for both browsing and navigational activities and that although both
aspects overlap, they are nevertheless distinct.
Obviously, what this amounts to in specific terms will be elaborated in
the more concrete requirements (checkpoints etc.) and also in whatever
explanatory text accompanies the guideline.
Regarding Principle 5, won't it always be true (so long as there is
technological change) that older standards, data formats and applications
will have to coexist with the new, and hence that some degree of backward
compatibility will always be needed, especially where there is a plurality
of software solutions available and the needs of diverse communities of
users, with various hardware devices and software requirements, are
involved? In brief, it seems unrealistic to conclude that such issues are
likely to vanish, however much we might wish that they would do so.
capacity only.
AG:: "Comprehending the information shall not depend on something the
user can't do. ...add a parallel strategy addressing cognitive
barriers."
WL: We seem to assume that "cognitive barriers" is a way of saying that
their possessor *can't* "comprehend the information"? At any rate this
statement of principle seems spot on to me. Maybe de-negativization as:
"Make information availability independent of users' physical
(sensory/motor) or device (user agent) capability"?
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
Cognitive barriers is a way of saying that the document contains
artificial barriers which prevent understanding.
I think.
In other words, we need to make sure we're not talking about
defects in -people- but rather defects -in the ability of the
document to present itself properly-.
Kynn Bartlett kynn@idyllmtn.com http://kynn.com/
Director of Accessibility, Edapta http://www.edapta.com/
Chief Technologist, Idyll Mountain Internet http://www.idyllmtn.com/
AWARE Center Director http://www.awarecenter.org/
Vote for Liz for N. Am. ICANN Nominee! http://www.khyri.com/icann/
Realizing my rambling on the subject was not very clear ....
The problem in the case of the current ADA is that if "that guy with the
tape measure" doesn't bother or gets it wrong then about the stongest thing
you can say is "in my opinion that fails to meet ...".
A statement like that doesn't get very far when someone may need to tear
down and rebuild a ramp, and I don't think it will be any easier with web
sites.
Experience with situations like that make me want to see the most specific
rules possible included in the normative document.
Marti
Kynn, it is a slippery slope between defects in people eand defects in how
they access the information. How dumb does someone have to be before
they're too dumb to deserve access to information? Is it impossibble to
provide basic informaation to people too dumb to be able to read or
comprehend when they listen? Or is it just the venue of the next decade of
progress in accessibillty???
Anne
Anne L. Pemberton
apembert@crosslink.net
Enabling Support Foundation
AG::
Oh, I could be indelicate enough to say that there are things 'wrong' with
people. But that we should accomodate for these things where it is
reasonably doable. I claim my myopia and astigmatism are things 'wrong'
with my eyes that my eyeglasses accomodate.
At RESNA we encountered a tale that bears on this thread. This came from
an occupational therapist who was working with a cognitively limited worker
working bagging etc. in a supermarket. The worker had been able to
function fine on the job until they changed the time clock. In place of
the old mechanical time clock, they had a new digital time clock where you
had to read and follow the LED menus to perform the clock-in, to-lunch,
from-lunch and clock-out transactions. The worker couldn't read the
prompts and couldn't work the time clock successfully. The result was they
were working hours that they were not being credited with. The employee's
time records were all messed up and it was a problem.
Here a person who can do a job is being obstructed from being able to
function in that job by a gratuitously difficult peripheral function.
That's the sort of thing we can hope to avoid in web content, too.
Al
