Amaya converts the soft hyphen, &amp;#173; or &amp;shy;, into a "-" both on display
and when the file is saved. This is incorrect, it should preserved as soft
hyphen in the source file and when displayed only be converted into a
hyphenation character if the hyphenation point is used.
Lars Bruzelius
SYSteam Udac AB
Box 174,
SE-751 04 Uppsala,
Sweden.
Hi Lars,
Based on the arguments in:
I would suggest you reconsider using soft hyphen at all. But equally,
Amaya should preserve it as soft hyphen in all positions- better not
second guess what the author might want. Though whether it chooses to
render all hyphens as visible, which seems permissible by the standard
[HTML4], I leave to Irene and her team's discretion.
Archer
P.S. The date inclusion function seems to be a mirror of how CVS writes
(and more importantly, overwrites) dates into source (e.g. HTML) files-
indeed, the inclusion on the Amaya web page may even be from CVS (and not
from Amaya), as there are certainly other W3C pages which used it before
Amaya had the feature, and not all (not many?) W3C pages are edited using
Amaya. If you really need to localize this, I'd suggest a server-side
gateway script, because if the format in HTML files were changed in Amaya
but not in CVS then the interaction between Amaya and CVS would in the
very least be inconsistent. (e.g. You'd get the Amaya format date after
you saved but before you committed, and the CVS format date after you
committed.)
End.
Having studied Jukka Korpela's 1997 paper and also reviewed the April 2003
discussion, which I must admit had not followed, I have come to the
conclusion that, regardless of interpretation, Amaya does not handle SHY
correctly.
This is not the time nor the place to reopen that discussion. However,
taking a pragmatical view on this, Unicode 4.0 certainly defines SHY as a
hyphenation hint and most web-browsers do the same [IE and Opera;
Mozilla/Netscape suppress' the SHY and does not use it as a hyphenation point].
Correct or not, as a historical aside it might be interesting to know that
my interpretation of SHY derives from the mid-1980s and the late Klaus
Appel, sometime secretary of one of the ISO 8859 working groups and also a
colleague of mine.
In defense of Amaya, it should be said that the original ISO 8859
definition of SHY is obscure.
My reading of the the HTML 4.01 standard differs from yours and seems to
support my interpretation of SHY:
"Those browsers that interpret soft hyphens must observe the following
semantics: If a line is broken at a soft hyphen, a hyphen character must be
displayed at the end of the first line. If a line is not broken at a soft
hyphen, the user agent must not display a hyphen character."
[HTML 4.01 "9.3.3 Hyphenation"
URL:"http://www.w3.org/TR/html401/struct/text.html#h-9.3.3" ]
Lars Bruzelius
SYSteam Udac AB
Box 174,
SE-751 04 Uppsala,
Sweden.
Hello again,
Lars quoted [HTML4] viz:
be
The key words, as Korpela points out, are "Those browsers that interpret
soft hyphens..." Therefore it is an implementation's choice whether to do
anything with soft hyphens at all. Doing nothing, to me, seems to imply
rendering SHY as just another hyphen with no special interpretation or
translation.
At any rate, I clearly agree Amaya is currently broken, as it changes SHYs
to something else everywhere, which is pretty much indefensible. If the
author wants SHY, the author should get SHY.
Archer
End.
