I recently upgrade my installation to the latest version of Tidy (I use the
Cygwin platform for which Tidy compiles OOTB).
I've found that:
(1) The blank lines that used to be inserted to make the markup more
readable before hN tags, p , tr etc aren't any more.
(2) td &amp;nbsp; /td is converted to td /td
Is there a configuration option that affects the insertion of blank lines
for the former? The latter I consider to be a bug. It certainly causes me
pain because I can't then feed it into htmldoc
(http://www.easysw.com/htmldoc/ - I had to use a td font
color="white" - /font /td , not pretty at all).
Tidy has served me well for years until these recent changes. I'd like to
be able to point out exactly where the changes came in, but there doesn't
seem to be a change log maintained.
Phil
Hi Phil,
On #1, that was a consensus decision. We all like some whitespace for
readability, but that was wide agreement that enough is enough. You can't
please everyone, no matter how hard you try.
But #2 comes as a surprise. Empty table cells usually look weird - with or
without styles. Can you log a bug? Go to http://tidy.sf.net/ and follow
the link to the bug tracker.
thanks,
Charlie
Can't argue with that logic. Ideally I'd like it as a config option, since
when I'm creating a web site I want minimalist and when I'm writing a
document I like whitespace - but then there's the danger of too many
options.
Is there a change log somewhere that I've missed? At least then awkward folk
like me could decide whether or not they want to upgrade based on the
features/fixes.
or
Done, testcase included. I wasn't sure whether it was a parser issue or a
pretty printer one - I couldn't spot anything obvious in pprint.c, but then
again I didn't have very long to spend on it.
Cheers,
Phil
No, but there should be. We are pretty good about commenting our CVS
checkins, so it should be possible to generate one from CVS logs. No one
has gotten that creative yet, however. Does anyone one have a shell/perl
script to do this they would like to share?
Thanks. The category isn't too important.
take it easy,
Charlie
