The following is posted for comment. It was proposed at the last
teleconf call and edited by Jason based on discussion.
It is posted to group for comment.
The checkpoints in the minimum set are those which, if satisfied,
eliminate barriers that would otherwise prevent an identifiable group
of users, (with the aid of client-side software and assistive
technologies), from reading, understanding, navigating or interacting
with the content.
Here is some comment. :)
Sounds somewhat exclusionary for groups of end users for which there
is no identifiable "assistive technologies" which are in widespread
use. I'm specifically thinking of cognitive disabilities here, but
also --
Question: Does this mean that a "don't trigger photo-epileptic attacks"
checkpoint would not be part of the minimum set? It's priority 1 in
WCAG 1.0 and is required by Section 508.
--Kynn
Kynn Bartlett kynn@reef.com
Technical Developer Liaison
Reef North America
Accessibility - W3C - Integrator Network
BUSINESS IS DYNAMIC. TAKE CONTROL.
"Gregg Vanderheiden"
"Understanding" is a problem, what justification is there, that these
groups of users need to understand the content, this definition would
require full translation into all languages of all content, and full
explanations of all required knowledge to understand this page - Some
other word is needed I feel, or a definition of understanding that is
different to the common one.
Jim.
Actually this is an understandable misinterpretation of the principle,
which results from a genuine ambiguity in my original wording.
A reformulation will be posted in my next message which, I hope, will
be improved in this respect.
The checkpoints in the minimum set are those which, if satisfied,
eliminate barriers that would otherwise prevent an identifiable
group of users, (with the aid of any applicable client-side software
and assistive technologies), from reading, understanding, navigating
or interacting with the content.
Notes
1. There is no assumption that all users are relying on assistive
technology.
2. Any checkpoint which results in a certain group of users' being
unable to carry out any one or more of the relevant functions with
respect to the content (viz., reading, understanding, interaction
and navigation) would qualify for inclusion in the minimum set.
3. Where failure to implement a checkpoint would make reading,
understanding, interaction and/or navigation more difficult for
some groups, but would not entirely preclude functioning along any
of these dimensions, due for instance to the availability of
relevant assistive technology, the checkpoint would not be included
in the minimum set, but it would be included in the guidelines as
"good advice" to authors. Where appropriate success criteria can be
defined, such checkpoints would count toward a higher level (i.e.,
beyond the minimum) level of conformance.
The principle expounded here is meant to be equivalent, in substance,
to Wendy's original idea as captured in OTACS 2, but offers a less
stringent interpretation of what makes content inaccessible to users.
Specifically, in order for a checkpoint to qualify, it must make the
difference between access and lack of access in any one or more of the
four dimensions. These dimensions correspond, broadly, to guidelines
1-3 of WCAG 2.0 as formulated in the latest draft.
Jason
Would it be possible to give a couple of checkpoint
examples that fall _outside_ the minimum set as
defined.
This will help my understanding of the definition
Cheers
Graham
'Making on-line information accessible'
Mobile Phone : +64 25 919 724 - New Zealand
Work Phone : +64 9 846 6995 - New Zealand
AIM ID : grahamolivernz
Nokia Game is on again.
Go to http://uk.yahoo.com/nokiagame/ and join the new
all media adventure before November 3rd.
The same examples apply as in Wendy's original proposal. I would
suggest a careful reading of the checkpoint-by-checkpoint analysis in
Much of the confusion in recent discussions is due, I think, to
various working group members' having somewhat different conceptions
of what is meant by the several proposals that have been advanced. We
need to eliminate the misunderstandings so that we can concentrate
firmly upon analysing the merits of the options which have been put
forward, and arrive at creative solutions.
The "Eliminate Barriers with aid of relevant AT" principle is meant to
be a recasting of OTACS 2, but from a user's perspective which makes
the access benefit explicit while drawing the same distinction between
core and non-core checkpoints.
Cheers Jason
I have turned it over in my mind and slightly
paraphrasing your note 2 gives the following
"Any checkpoint which results in a certain group of
users' being _unable_ to read, understand, interact
with or navigate content would qualify for inclusion
in the minimum set."
How does that sound as a rephrasing of the overall
principle?
Cheers
Graham
'Making on-line information accessible'
Mobile Phone : +64 25 919 724 - New Zealand
Work Phone : +64 9 846 6995 - New Zealand
AIM ID : grahamolivernz
Nokia Game is on again.
Go to http://uk.yahoo.com/nokiagame/ and join the new
all media adventure before November 3rd.
I must be getting tired, sorry another go
"Any checkpoint which, if not followed, results in a
certain group of users' being _unable_ (with the aid
of any applicable client-side software and assistive
technologies) to read, understand, interact with or
navigate content would qualify for inclusion in the
minimum set."
Cheers
Graham
'Making on-line information accessible'
Mobile Phone : +64 25 919 724 - New Zealand
Work Phone : +64 9 846 6995 - New Zealand
AIM ID : grahamolivernz
Nokia Game is on again.
Go to http://uk.yahoo.com/nokiagame/ and join the new
all media adventure before November 3rd.
Question: Does this mean that a "don't trigger photo-epileptic attacks"
checkpoint would not be part of the minimum set? It's priority 1 in
WCAG 1.0 and is required by Section 508.
GV: - it wouldn?t be excluded because having a seizure definitely
prevents you from "reading, understanding, navigating or interacting
with the content"
