Hello,
At the 20 July teleconference [1], Eric Hansen suggested that
the UA Guidelines (presumably including the 7 July draft [2])
uses the terms style/content inconsistently:
"In some places, we don't distinguish style and content, in
others we do. We need to elaborate our definition of content."
The definition of "content" in that draft says that
"content refers to the document object as a whole or in parts."
The document object definition says that "the document object
is the user agent's representation of data (e.g., a document)."
This would include style sheets. I think we should leave this
definition as is.
For distinguishing structure from presentation (both conveyed
in content) I propose that we do what was done in the
Authoring Tool Guidelines, which defines the terms structural
markup [3] and presentation markup [4]. I propose that we
reuse or adapt those definitions (quoted below) as necessary.
All of this relates to issue 297 [5], which is entitled
"Style v. content and background sounds" (the title needs fixing
since it opposes style and content).
The question is how much UA control is required over certain
types of content, notably when that content is used to achieve
a presentation effect? I think that the answer depends on the
type of content:
1) Users need full control of content whose purpose is not a
presentation effect. The first question is: can we distinguish
content intended for a presentation effect from content not
intended for a presentation effect? My answer would be: the
best we can do is rely on what we can recognize as being
for style: HTML transitional elements and attributes,
style sheets, known non-standard markup such as bgsound.
(Yes, authors may misuse structural markup for a presentation
effect and vice-versa.)
Note that I don't have a term for "content not intended for
a presentation effect." I think we tend to use the term
"content" (meaning "having information") here, and that's the
source of the inconsistency. We can oppose style and structure,
and style with non-style. Do we need a term for "non-style"?
(I hope we don't.)
I would also note that this discussion sounds a little like the
discussion about content meant for humans v. content meant for
machines. Refer to Al's comments on this topic [7]:
"The distinction between data (raw content) and meta-data
(markup) is an artifact of the view assumed by the author.
There is no fundamental semantic difference between what is
called data vs. metadata. They both play the same role as
bearers of information Semantically, it is all just
one class of data. This is a little-understood fact of
information science."
Al, will you make the same comment about an assertion that
presentation v. non-presentation (or structure)?
2) Users also need control of content whose purpose is for presentation,
but the level of control depends on the nature of the content
(I would argue). In some cases, "on/off" control may not
suffice for providing access. For example, the user needs to be
able to select a font family that provides access (and can't
just turn off fonts). In other cases, I think that on/off control
suffices; access is made possible by being able to turn off
blinking content, animations used for decoration, and background
sounds used for decoration. While fine tune control might be
useful, I think that a requirement to turn off the interfering
content
is the Priority 1 requirement.
I think my proposal for issue 5 that arose during the
Mac IE evaluation [6] is still appropriate in this light.
- Ian
P.S. The proposal should include a comment that independent
control of volume for different audio sources should NOT be
required for background sounds. The user must be able to
configure the UA to not render this merely decorative sound,
and that should suffice.
[1] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2000JulSep/0097.html
[2] http://www.w3.org/WAI/UA/WD-UAAG10-20000707
[3] http://www.w3.org/TR/2000/REC-ATAG10-20000203/#def-structural-markup
[4]
[5] http://cmos-eng.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear.html#297
[6] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2000JulSep/0060.html
[7] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2000AprJun/0210.html
Ian Jacobs (jacobs@w3.org) http://www.w3.org/People/Jacobs
Cell: +1 917 450-8783
"Structural markup" is markup language that encodes information
about the structural role of elements of the content. For
example, headings, sections, members of a list, and components
of a complex diagram can be identified using structural
markup. Structural markup should not be used incorrectly to
control presentation or layout. For example, authors should not
use the BLOCKQUOTE element in HTML [HTML4] to achieve an
indentation visual layout effect. Structural markup should be
used correctly to communicate the roles of the elements of
the content and presentation markup should be used separately to
control the presentation and layout."
"Presentation markup" is markup language that encodes
information about the desired presentation or layout of the content.
For example, Cascading Style Sheets ([CSS1], [CSS2]) can be
used to control fonts, colors, aural rendering, and graphical
positioning. Presentation markup should not be used in place of
structural markup to convey structure. For example, authors should
mark up lists in HTML with proper list markup and style them with
CSS (e.g., to control spacing, bullets, numbering, etc.). Authors
should not use other CSS or HTML incorrectly to lay out content
graphically so that it resembles a list.
[not promising to have read the rest of the message...]
No. These concepts are well-posed enough, even if HTML elements don't sort
neatly along these lines.
In fact, I would try to clarify my earlier remark. The syntactic
distiction between markup and marked-up content is perfectly clear. What I
was trying to say is that some people think of metadata as semantically a
different class of stuff from data. That is what I was claiming is
illusory. The meta-distinction is a byproduct of the view or packaging,
not in the semantic meaning of the data.
In the case of HTML some markup [counting style rules in a stylesheet as
markup, loosely] is clearly presentational and some, such as DIV is clearly
structural. Now, of course, there is markup like FRAMESET and TABLE which
are both. This markup has both layout and structural semantics in one
element type. So at least in HTML it is possible to talk about markup with
presentational semantics and markup with structural semantics, but it is
not possible to partition the set of element types into two groups which
are purely one and purely the other.
Hope this is responsive to your question.
Al
[snip]
Is that true for all elements (e.g., FONT) or just some? If possible
for some elements, then I suggest we try to identify them.
Yes, thank you,
- Ian
Ian Jacobs (jacobs@w3.org) http://www.w3.org/People/Jacobs
Cell: +1 917 450-8783
AG::
I see "quick and truly dirty" ways to do this and "clean and truly too slow
for UAAG" ways. So I want to know what is the question that we _have_ to
answer to release the UAAG as a Recommendation. The subject line says
"issue 297."
Issue 5) Style v. content and background sounds.
[Note: I believe Eric has already raised this point a number of
times.]
Question: Some content is only meant to decorate. This includes
simple
graphics, colors, animations, and sounds (namely background sounds).
We require the UA to allow the user to control the volume, speed, and
other aspects of animations and sounds. But it seems like this is
overkill
for visual or sound content that is only meant for decoration.
The author is required by WCAG 1.0 to include text equivalents
for every non-text. It may be a bug in WCAG 1.0, but I don't think
this
should be required for non-text content that is only used for
decoration.
We don't require a text equivalent for the fact that the background
color
of a page is pale yellow. Should we require a text equivalent for
a background sound that adds to the browsing experience but is only
*background sound*, i.e., decoration?
My opinion on the particular question at hand is that I would not try to
give User Agents an exception in this case because it does put information
the user could beneficially use out of reach, and it doesn't really save
the User Agent much.
The reduced requirement that I am contemplating is that if a sound is
invoked from a BGSOUND attribute or an EMBED element that the only
requirement would be to allow the user to permit or forbid the play of the
sound.
The reason this is a bad idea is that it is reasonable and useful for the
user to inspect the sound, that is play the sound by itself, even in
situations where by reason of contention over the audio output channel the
user cannot tolerate having the sound playing in the background as part of
browsing the other content of the page.
Compare the "image links" function in Lynx where all IMG references are
turned into links so that the image can be inspected, i.e. displayed
separately from the page context.
The reason I say the exception doesn't save the User Agent builder much of
anything is that the difficulty of providing controls over the play of the
sound is associated with the type, not the role, of the sound. What
matters in this regard is whether the sound is MIDI, WAV, or Real, not
whether it is elevator music in the background or the voice announcing that
you have won the million dollars.
The user should have the capability to play a) the whole ensemble, b) just
the sound, or c) the whole ensemble without the sounds in the ensemble.
This last would be required because the audio channel has been reserved for
the reading of the text.
Then, in the case of playing just the sound, all the controls that the
player exposes for this type should be available, and we would like them to
meet our list. No matter that the user is inspecting a decoration on the
original page. That is what they are focusing on, and the usual play
controls are of interest in this scenario.
One key thing to realize about a background sound is that the
syncronization of a background sound with the rest of the document is very
loose. They are not syncronized except that the sound is germane inside
some document region and not germane outside that region. This is as far
as the association gets. There is no relationship that matters between
where you are in the sound and where you are in the rest of the document.
So aside from the ability to include, exclude, or inspect the sound, there
is no more fine-grained syncronized access to the whole thing that needs to
be required.
I agree that the "inspect function" may be a new function for the browser
presenting pages with background sounds, but it is the same old requirement
that we need all over the place in multimedia. This looks like one of
those places where we should screw up our courage and say "Yes, if you are
going to use multimedia effects in web pages, you should live by multimedia
rules." Enabling the user to play the pieces in isolation is one of those
generic rules.
So, to return to the smaller question, I don't think we need to go through
HTML and designate which sound roles are substantive and which can be
relegated to "just decoration" because in fact the language does not
enforce this to a sufficient degree. What goes in the sounds covers the
full range of decorative to substantive regardless of how invoked.
Besides, I don't think we need to answer _how_ to tell which sound roles
are considered to be decorative, because I don't myself believe we should
make the exception in the first place. Just because people need to
suppress the background as background doesn't mean they don't need to be
able to hear the sound (separately).
Al
al, I think you have captured the escence of our intent. in ie, if you
uncheck play sounds, no sounds are played automatically but here again, we
don't have the opportunity to know that a sound exists if it is a background
sound and thus play it as a stand alone sound file. the last thing I want
is for an unexpected sound to come blaring! out of my speakers in an
inappropriate place and or time not to mention the load increase. take for
example one I created at:
it is large and plays only once but takes a long time at 33.6 to load and in
ie for some reason it is jerky on my win.95 box so I'd rather not hear it.
it is a wav. midis don't pose this issue for me but I am sure they might
for some.
Thanks.
snipped to remarks:
Hands-On Technolog(eye)s
ftp://poehlman.clark.net
voice 301-949-7599
end sig.
[snipped some intro text from AG]
My comments preceded by IJ:
IJ:
My understanding has been that information conveyed through style sheets
(or their markup equivalents) is intended for a particular rendering
only and is "disposable" with respect to other renderings. Of course,
we require that the raw style sheet be available to the user (as part
of all content). Refer to our discussion about the "W3C Working Draft"
background image and lack of alt text from 1999.
(Question from Ian [1], Responses from Al [2], [3], [4])
[1] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-gl/1999AprJun/0202.html
[2] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-gl/1999AprJun/0203.html
[3] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-gl/1999AprJun/0204.html
[4] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-gl/1999AprJun/0205.html
We ask user agents to allow users to turn off background images because
they can get in the way. However, we don't require more control
than that (e.g., the ability to inspect the image as Lynx provides)
since
background images are disposable and don't require additional control.
Of course, it's possible to abuse style sheets; the author could insert
the entire document with the 'content' property. But this is an
authoring
problem, and I don't know whether we should make additional requirements
on user agents based on bad authoring practices.
IJ:
That is the part that I don't agree with. Do users need to rewind
or slow down sounds that are used purely for decoration?
Are authors required to provide a text transcript for background sounds
that have words? We have said that authors are not required to provide
alt text for list bullets because they are graphical decoration for
structure encoded in markup (refer to discussion on the WCAG
list from Nir in 1999 [5]). I think that we should require user
agents to provide adequate control over content rendering, but I think
we don't need to require maximum control over content whose role
is only decorative.
[5] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-gl/1999AprJun/0077.html
On a related note: Should we require user agents to allow users to
rewind and slow down beeps or other short sounds (even "You've got
mail")?
Those sounds may be part of the native user interface or part of
content.
These sounds have a function: convey a message about an event. We
require
that these messages be made available as text in the user interface
(checkpoint 1.5). Are we also requiring stop, start, pause, rewind,
advance, and slow down of this audio? If not, why not? In this case,
the information is not purely decorative.
The fact that some piece of audio content has a text equivalent doesn't
mean that the user agent shouldn't provide control over the audio. Thus,
I'm not arguing that as soon as an auditory track has an associated
text transcript, additional control is not required. But I don't think
users need to be able to rewind beeps.
Refer to comments from Eric Hansen about "short sounds" not being
part of audio presentations ([6], [7]).
[6] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/1999OctDec/0752.html
[7] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2000AprJun/0374.html
IJ: Is that an authoring problem? Or just because one can't draw
the line. If it's an authoring problem (i.e., encoding non-decorative
information in style) then I don't see why the user agent developers
should have to implement more control.
What about the ability to inspect background images separately? That
is not currently required by the UA Guidelines. Except that checkpoint
2.1 requires access to all content. We do not have a requirement that
the user be able to navigate to and inspect all referenced content.
Thanks for the comments Al!
_Ian
Ian Jacobs (jacobs@w3.org) http://www.w3.org/People/Jacobs
Cell: +1 917 450-8783
1. I did not mean to suggest any change in the separate and simpler rules
for sonicons and similar "short sounds." I am sorry if something I said
gave that impression.
2. The proposed exception is predicated on the theory that the "background
sound" feature is by nature decorative.
So far as I can tell, when used, this sound track is usually the only sound
in town. Sound is perceived alongside sight. Thus the 'background' in
"background sound" does not have the same meaning as in "background image."
Background images are designed to defer to the foreground content laid
over them. Background sounds, in the large, are the whole audio component
of the [multimedia] experience designed into a page. There is usually no
foreground audio for the background sound to defer to. The media space
created by "background sound" invites more complex and independent
information complementing the visual content of a page. I can reasonably
imagine programming Martin Luther King's "I have a dream" speech as a
background sound where I could not imagine using the manuscript draft of
that speech as a background image. The significance of a "background
sound," in the unusual case where someone has taken the trouble to provide
one, is more likely to be comparable to a large featured image than to a
background image.
If it were natural to use only decorative sound tracks in this HTML role,
we could then move on to the question as to whether this exception to the
rule simplifies or complicates the browser builder's job. But the
exception is predicated on the idea that background sounds are, or should
be, limited to decorative and expendable content. I would like the group
and the WAI to consider if this is the best way to view this feature of the
web page medium.
Al
This ties to an issue of whether the UA should provide repair functionality,
and in particular whether it should provide access to all content. For mine,
the answers are yes - unless we discover that authors and authoring tools
have suddenly got everything right and fixed all their content so that there
is genuine seperation of style and content, the tools should encourage it,
athe authors should practise it, and the User Agents should make use of, but
NOT rely on it.
This is Al's oft-stated be strict in what you send and tolerant in what you
accept.
Charles McCN
1. I did not mean to suggest any change in the separate and simpler rules
for sonicons and similar "short sounds." I am sorry if something I said
gave that impression.
2. The proposed exception is predicated on the theory that the "background
sound" feature is by nature decorative.
So far as I can tell, when used, this sound track is usually the only sound
in town. Sound is perceived alongside sight. Thus the 'background' in
"background sound" does not have the same meaning as in "background image."
Background images are designed to defer to the foreground content laid
over them. Background sounds, in the large, are the whole audio component
of the [multimedia] experience designed into a page. There is usually no
foreground audio for the background sound to defer to. The media space
created by "background sound" invites more complex and independent
information complementing the visual content of a page. I can reasonably
imagine programming Martin Luther King's "I have a dream" speech as a
background sound where I could not imagine using the manuscript draft of
that speech as a background image. The significance of a "background
sound," in the unusual case where someone has taken the trouble to provide
one, is more likely to be comparable to a large featured image than to a
background image.
If it were natural to use only decorative sound tracks in this HTML role,
we could then move on to the question as to whether this exception to the
rule simplifies or complicates the browser builder's job. But the
exception is predicated on the idea that background sounds are, or should
be, limited to decorative and expendable content. I would like the group
and the WAI to consider if this is the best way to view this feature of the
web page medium.
Al
W3C Web Accessibility Initiative http://www.w3.org/WAI
Location: I-cubed, 110 Victoria Street, Carlton VIC 3053
Postal: GPO Box 2476V, Melbourne 3001, Australia
Just so I have this straight.
1. Is the discussion trying to determine if proprietary elements like
BGSOUND is considered decorative or style rather than content?
2. Is there any other markup the user agent can recognize that can produce
a background sound (other than use of scripting techniques)?
Jon
Jon Gunderson, Ph.D., ATP
Coordinator of Assistive Communication and Information Technology
Division of Rehabilitation - Education Services
MC-574
College of Applied Life Studies
University of Illinois at Urbana/Champaign
1207 S. Oak Street, Champaign, IL 61820
Voice: (217) 244-5870
E-mail: jongund@uiuc.edu
WWW: http://www.staff.uiuc.edu/~jongund
WWW: http://www.w3.org/wai/ua
Any element, attribute, or style property (not just proprietary).
I think that there is some agreement that while we can identify
some content as being marked up for decoration, that content may
not be used just for decoration (and that's something that today,
machines can't recognize).
There are things you can do in CSS to get background audio
('play-during').
- Ian
Ian Jacobs (jacobs@w3.org) http://www.w3.org/People/Jacobs
Cell: +1 917 450-8783
Actually, it is trying to determine if sounds that work like this need to
offer the user the full range of controls identified for a soundtrack, or
if the option to turn it off suffices.
One posible rationale for why "just turning it off" might be considered
sufficient is that the sound is presumptively decorative. A sub-argument
on this hypothesis it to try to "determine if said elements should be
considered decorative etc."
You raise the possibility of another possible argument -- that we don't
want to lay a lot of requirements against the implementation of stuff that
isn't in the W3C specification to begin with.
I don't know if EMBED counts as "any other markup" because it does match
"proprietary elements like BGSOUND ." But I believe that this is another
way to insert a sound with a similar effect.
Al
Responses in JRG:
JRG: Is there consensus with the people who have been discussing this issue
on the list that markup for background sounds is considered decorative?
Jon
Jon Gunderson, Ph.D., ATP
Coordinator of Assistive Communication and Information Technology
Division of Rehabilitation - Education Services
MC-574
College of Applied Life Studies
University of Illinois at Urbana/Champaign
1207 S. Oak Street, Champaign, IL 61820
Voice: (217) 244-5870
E-mail: jongund@uiuc.edu
WWW: http://www.staff.uiuc.edu/~jongund
WWW: http://www.w3.org/wai/ua
I believe that it is decorative. We do need to turn it off or leave it on
for various reasons though.
