Hi!
Help me, please, with your new injured engine...
If you would be kind enought to explain what the problem is, I am sure
that a solution is possible!
Thanks
CLement Onime
Salyam!
1-Okt-2001 09:33 onime@ictp.trieste.it (Onime Clement) wrote to "Arkady
V.Belousov" ark@mos.ru :
OC If you would be kind enought to explain what the problem is, I am sure
OC that a solution is possible!
When I request html to text conversion with result inserted into
message body (i.e. I use GET directive) then with new 3.0 engine I get
broken text (it transliterated from cyrrilic to latin characters) sended as
file-attachment (with name equal to part of full URL).
PS: Also, limit for 5 request per message also very uncomfortable for me.
PPS: Sorry for my bad English.
Okay, this has been fixed on wm.ictp.trieste.it
The other servers will be updated in a few days time!
Please test and let me know, if it does not work!
Thanks
Clement
Hi!
1-Okt-2001 10:32 onime@ictp.trieste.it (Onime Clement) wrote to "Arkady
V.Belousov" ark@mos.ru :
OC Okay, this has been fixed on wm.ictp.trieste.it
OC The other servers will be updated in a few days time!
OC Please test and let me know, if it does not work!
This doesn't work yet. I try three URL. All three again attached (not
inserted into body) and all three again transliterated. :(
PS: Don't know why, but: first two pages commented as "Description: ASCII
text", third commented as "Description: International language text". With
previous engine version (2.x) two first URL I recieve in perfect form, third
URL I get recoded, what requires from me some work to recode back - i.e. I
should convert back from CP866 to KOI8-R, then from CP1251 (Windows) to
CP866 (DOS CP, where I work). This may be caused by incorrect header: server
PPS: In any case wrong CP is revertible, whereas transliterated text - not.
Attaching text as files also is very-very uncomfortable, because requres
much more work to access text. Not counting that this contradicts the
documentation.
Hi,
I have not fixed, I hope this interesting problem!
Apparently the remote Web Server, tells www4mail that the
character set for the document is Windows-1521.
www4mail tries to do a dump of the page into the character set
Windows-1521 and sends the resulting page as an attachment due to the fact
Windows-1521 is different from the user's character set koi-r
The modification now is as follows
text_dump will decide on which character set to use as follows
1. user defined using XCHARSET command
2. user defined using the Charset header from the mail message
3. user (inferred from the XLANGUAGE command), as long as www4mail
supports the language. Ignored for us-ascii.
4. The Remote Web Server's word on the Character Set
5. The Local Administrator configured via the locallang directive!
Thanks
Clement Onime
Hi!
2-Okt-2001 15:47 onime@ictp.trieste.it (Onime Clement) wrote to "Arkady
V.Belousov" ark@mos.ru :
OC I have not fixed, I hope this interesting problem!
OC The modification now is as follows
OC text_dump will decide on which character set to use as follows
OC 1. user defined using XCHARSET command
OC 2. user defined using the Charset header from the mail message
OC 3. user (inferred from the XLANGUAGE command), as long as www4mail
OC supports the language. Ignored for us-ascii.
OC 4. The Remote Web Server's word on the Character Set
OC 5. The Local Administrator configured via the locallang directive!
Ops. Sorry, but I don't understand from this, what I should do to get
results as previously? And this not explains for me why some pages income
good, and other not. BTW, I forget to mention: I sometime get transliterated
pages with 2.x engine also, but this happens rarely, not with each server.
PS: About attachments. Trouble from 3.0 engine not in attachments, but in
attachments type. My mailer not shows (of course) contents of _file_
attachments, but shows contents of _inline_ attachments. So, if you wish
anyway make attachments as result of GET, then you at least should mark it
as inline. And don't forget to reflect this in documentation. :)
Sorry, I meant I have NOW Fixed.
So, you can test on wm.ictp.trieste.it and let me know if it works okay!
It should work fine now!
Thanks
Clement Onime
d
r
Hi!
2-Okt-2001 16:15 onime@ictp.trieste.it (Onime Clement) wrote to "Arkady
V.Belousov" ark@mos.ru :
OC Sorry, I meant I have NOW Fixed.
OC So, you can test on wm.ictp.trieste.it and let me know if it works okay!
OC It should work fine now!
Yes! It works! Thank you. :)))))))
PS: May I ask about two changes: (1) increase request per message limit and
(2) add sended page' codepage into header? What I mean: I test three URL.
First is ok and for it sayed "Character Set of Document: koi8-r". For two
other sayed "Character Set of Document: windows-1251" and both require back
recoding. This happens because original header not contains "Content-Type:
page. Adding this info into header should solve all probable troubles with
multiple wrong recoding which may happen from server to user.
PPS: Although I receive plain text, in statisrics I get next warning:
WARNING: THE ATTACHED DOCUMENT CONTAINS HTML SCRIPT. YOU MAY NEED TO ENABLE or
DISABLE JAVASCRIPT IN YOUR BROWSER TO SEE PAGE CONTENTS!
To enable html form(s) processing resend request with the XFORMREPLY=text as th
e
first line
I suggest, it should be removed.
Hi!
2-Okt-2001 16:15 onime@ictp.trieste.it (Onime Clement) wrote to "Arkady
V.Belousov" ark@mos.ru :
OC Sorry, I meant I have NOW Fixed.
OC So, you can test on wm.ictp.trieste.it and let me know if it works okay!
OC It should work fine now!
Yes, it was works, but three days ago it freezes and don't answer.
Also, I see no other servers which bugfix their behavior.
