I have quickly read the first 9 pages, I will do the rest this evening.
I have concerns at a high-level; I will give more detailed comments
tomorrow.
The high-level concerns are scope, and politics.
Scope:
Lbase is explicitly monotonic, and Lbase claims to be the base for all
SWELs.
However there are existing languages that in my mind fit on the Semantic Web
arctitecture diagram that are non-mon. e.g. XML Schema, RuleML. (Note the
former is explicitly mentioned on:
Thus I suggest the scope of Lbase should be narrowed to being a means of
expressing semantics for 'monotonic SWELs'
Politics:
Some of this seems to be an extension of arguments in WebOnt in another
forum.
This seems unfortuante, particularly since those arguments are being
resolved. I also dislike the use of phrases like: "quite intractable
problems" rather than a less extreme "difficult problems".
Given that this note is unlikely to be revised, I would suggest we seek
feedback from WebOnt, or at least Peter, before publication.
I am likely to abstain whatever the editors do - publication is useful to
move the debate forward, and is in charter; but I am unlikely to be
convinced that it is appropriate for the RDF Core WG to make a proposal like
this.
I am working on a doc that will reference this Note in order to
attackHHH question some of its assumptions. Hence it is useful to
me, in order not to be tilting at windmills.
Jeremy
Or arguments from the RDF Interest Group (c/o www-rdf-logic)... They
relate to all RDF-based Web language and protocol work.
I see no reason why it can't be revised. In fact I would hope to see it
revised, at least minimally, in the new year.
I tried to word the 'status' section quite carefully, to explain why it is
reasonable for such a document to be published via RDF Core. It may be
that the tone of the rest of the document is less cautious than the SOTD
section, but as a proposal and discussion document I'm quite happy with
it.
Dan
?? Can you say why XML Schema is nonmonotonic??
OK, though I think I would like to word it differently.
Well, a technical resolution is under way, but the differences in
attitude and preference as still as strong as they ever were.
We could indeed re-word this somewhat now. In general, I think I also
speak for Guha in wanting the wording to be as uncontroversial as
possible. Our purpose is not to ruffle feathers.
IHMC(850)434 8903 home
40 South Alcaniz St.(850)202 4416 office
FL 32501 (850)291 0667 cell
phayes@ai.uwf.edu http://www.coginst.uwf.edu/~phayes
