Can anyone comment on the improvements (if any)?
Flash MX makes it possible for Web developers to deliver Flash content to
the visually impaired.
I can say that involving developers early on in accessibility is key.
For example, two years ago the United States Mint, we were a heavy Flash
user. We also submitted a technique to make it accessible with
instructions on how to do so. Now my application manager there, has
gone on to work for Allaire now Macromedia as a senior manager. His
introduction to accessibility has helped to keep Flash and accessibility
on the radar site for us. By the way he is co-author on their books.
This paragraph is in no way to give him 'carte blanc' credit as there
are many others helping and especially the accessibility group at
Macromedia deserves credit.
Just another reason to introduce everyone to accessibility as early as
possible because you never know where they will land and be in a
position to help you back.
This is a wonderful first step and it's a long time coming....but the onus
is really on the webdesigners to use the accessibility features in Flash and
other programs. You can add all the features you want -- but if nobody uses
them.....?
I think it's so important to educate the design community about the
accessibility issues faced by so many internet users -- software can be
modified, but some designers' attitudes can't. There are a couple
interesting discussions about the usability of Flash on the
alt.design.graphics newsgroup -- some of you who are interested in
accessible design might want to take a peek or jump right in. I need a
couple more pro-accessibility people to jump in on my side!
And then what about the issue of bandwidth accessibility? Colour blindness?
Again, these issues are resolved at the design level -- no amount of
software features will help unless shortsighted designers are willing to
implement an accessibility plan that takes more people into consideration.
Carol Ott
personal: http://www.csott.com
professional: http://www.csottdesign.com
