From: Bob Schloss, W3C RDF Data Model and Syntax Working Group co-chair
Congratulations on publishing draft-ietf-webdav-protocol-03.
The Resource Description Framework work is solidifying rapidly.
I would like to ask 2 people who having been working on WEBDAV --
in the area of properties -- to work with 2 people who have been working
on RDF... to understand how RDF properties can be fetched, set,
deleted etc. using WEBDAV operations, and how the formats for
returning properties can be harmonized.
I suspect that we can understand
the issues and come up with a proposal (to present to the entire WEBDAV
WG and to the RDF WGs) in a matter of weeks, possibly sooner if we
can meeting face-to-face.
I am not subscribed to w3c-dist-auth mailing list, but hope
that those who are could identify the appropriate people (knowledgeable
and available and willing) and then drop me a note.
Thanks very much,
Bob Schloss
e-mail: bschloss@watson.ibm.com
voice: 914-784-6710
location: IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, Hawthorne New York USA
On Tuesday, October 14, 1997 4:31 PM, Bob Schloss
Thank you! The WebDAV working group has been working hard lately, and the
-04 version of our draft should be available later this week. This is part
of our drive to finish our core specification in early 1998.
I am subscribed to the RDF mailing list (my participation in W3C metadata
work predates the formation of the RDF list), and there are several people
in the WebDAV working group who also participate in the RDF working group.
I have read the October 2 version of the RDF specification, along with
much of the relevant related work in the metadata field.
Within the WebDAV design team, we have worked hard to ensure that the
WebDAV specification is compatible with the W3C metadata activity, and have
made several changes to our specification along the way to ensure this
compatibility. For example, early versions of our specification included
references to the Web Collections proposal, one of the proposals which has
fed into the RDF activity.
At present, RDF will simply "plug and play" with the WebDAV property
system. A WebDAV property is a (name, value) pair, where the name is a
URI, and the value is a well-formed XML document. Since an RDF description
is a well-formed XML document, an RDF "serialization" block can be placed
within the value of a WebDAV property, and hence a WebDAV property may
contain an RDF description. WebDAV does not affect the semantics of these
RDF serialization blocks -- this is defined by the RDF specification. What
WebDAV does provide is a mechanism by which RDF description blocks can be
stored and associated with web resources. In a sense, WebDAV provides the
"how": how are descriptions stored; while RDF provides the "what": what is
the syntax and semantics of the description.
Since WebDAV has been actively working to remain synchronized with RDF, I
remain unconvinced that there is a need to create a task force to determine
the interactions between the WebDAV protocol and the resource description
format. It sounds like what is needed is a brief white paper explaining
how an RDF description is set and retrieved using the WebDAV property
mechanism, highlighting the already existing interoperability between these
two drafts.
However, since our goal is to ensure that WebDAV and the W3C metadata work
can interoperate, if you have any concrete issues concerning this
interoperability, please feel free to raise these issues with me or the
WebDAV working group.
- Jim Whitehead
Chair, IETF WEBDAV Working Group
How about putting this in the webdav spec, in a paragraph:
"Relationship of WebDAV to external metadata representations such
as W3C RDF"
Bob,
Just to echo what Jim said, I (and several others) have been involved in
both the DAV and RDF areas. I am fairly confident that we will not have any
problems with different models between the two, since we have been designing
with this sort of thing in mind. This is just one of the reasons why I think
the DAV community will really appreciate the payoff of using XML (including
the XML syntax &amp; namespaces).
Alex Hopmann
Microsoft Corporation
