A www-tag participant questioned a claim
by Tim Bray that not doing WAI is bad
for business; I was going to chide him
for asking the TAG to do his homework,
noting that a google search for "WAI business"
quickly yields
Business Benefits of Accessible Web Design
but while that document gives ample evidence
of benefits of accessible web design, it
doesn't actually conclude that the benefits
outweigh the costs; in fact, I can't see
any discussion of the costs such as those
cited in the www-tag discussion:
For example, which studies have examined the costs of staff time
getting up
to speed with accessibility issues, time and costs of setting up SOPs
etc to
ensure that a chosen level of compliance is implemented and shown that
those
costs are less than the increased sales produced by addressing
accessibility?
-- http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-tag/2002Aug/0301.html
Dan Connolly, W3C http://www.w3.org/People/Connolly/
My answer to svgdeveloper@aol:
Not an appropriate subject for the general www-tag list. Yes, it's good
for business. Check the number of Americans covered by section 508 of
the ADA.
More evidence: I'm 47 and recently had to get reading glasses. I don't
like wearing them. On accessibly-designed web sites, I don't have to.
I'm not getting any younger and my eyes aren't getting any better. I am
a member of a demographic that you want to do business with. Work it
out. --Tim
Dan,
Actually the document you landed on is supposed to be titled "Auxiliary
Benefits of Accessible Web Design" -- the correction was made in some
places but not in all, I will follow up on that -- and it is supposed to be
only one page of a resource suite that is still in draft stage and that
more broadly addresses the various aspects of a business case. We do in
fact also have a draft of cost considerations relating to implementation of
Web accessibility, at
In addition we are working on marketplace analysis, etc. -- it is a
combination of the auxiliary benefits, cost factors, marketplace analysis,
etc., that bring most organizations to the conclusion that accessible
design is good for business. But you will note that all of the sections of
the Education &amp; Outreach Working Group's business case resource suite are
in various stages of overlapping development, as we've been focusing on
other deliverables recently.
We (EOWG) are actually getting back to working on this piece this month,
and I expect the materials will become clearer shortly.
- Judy
For example, which studies have examined the costs of staff time
to speed with accessibility issues, time and costs of setting up SOPs
ensure that a chosen level of compliance is implemented and shown that
costs are less than the increased sales produced by addressing
Judy Brewer +1.617.258.9741 http://www.w3.org/WAI
Director, Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI), World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)
MIT/LCS Room NE43-355, 200 Technology Square, Cambridge, MA, 02139, USA
