I propose the following rewording to the last two paragraphs of the
Introduction (in response to Judy's comments). Somehow in the multiple
re-edits we have blurred the distinction between making the tool accessible
and making a tool that generates accessible content (note the sentence :
"It does design issues directly related to accessible authoring tools, such
as automation, accessibility checking, appropriate documentation,
navigation mechanisms, prompts, the adoption of system conventions, and
other features that will result in authoring tools which allow users to
create accessible content regardless of disability.")
Present wording is:
An accessible authoring tool is accessible software that produces
accessible content for the Web. For detailed information about the
production of accessible content this document relies on the Web Content
Accessibility Guidelines [WAI-WEBCONTENT]. Similarly, this document does
not directly address the general design of accessible software. It does
design issues directly related to accessible authoring tools, such as
automation, accessibility checking, appropriate documentation, navigation
mechanisms, prompts, the adoption of system conventions, and other features
that will result in authoring tools which allow users to create accessible
content regardless of disability. Because most of the Web is created using
authoring tools, they play a critical role in ensuring the accessibility of
the web.
A separate document, entitled Techniques for Authoring Tool
Accessibility [WAI-AUTOOLS-TECH], provides suggestions and examples of how
each checkpoint might be satisfied, It also includes references to other
accessibility resources (such as platform-specific software accessibility
guidelines) which give additional information on how a tool may satisfy
each checkpoint. Readers are strongly encouraged to become familiar with
the techniques document. Please note that while there may be many helpful
suggestions there the requirements which need to be fulfilled are the
checkpoints in this document, and ways other than those suggested may be
appropriate for some tools.
Proposed revision is:
An accessible authoring tool is accessible software that produces
accessible content for the Web. Thus the goals of this document can be
stated as follows: that the authoring tool be accessible to authors
regardless of disability, that the authoring tool generate accessible
content by default, and that the authoring tool support and encourage the
author in creating accessible content. Because most of the Web is created
using authoring tools, they play a critical role in ensuring the
accessibility of the Web. Since the Web is both a means of receiving
information and communicating information, it is important that both the
web content produced and the authoring tool itself be accessible. For
detailed information about what constitutes accessible content this
document relies on the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines
[WAI-WEBCONTENT]. The document provides guidelines for designing authoring
tools that generate web content that conforms to the Web Content
Accessibility Guidelines and that support and encourage authors to create
content that conforms to the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines.
Similarly,this document does not address general accessible software design
but relies on other sources. It does address accessible design
considerations specific to Web authoring tools.
A separate document, entitled Techniques for Authoring Tool
Accessibility [WAI-AUTOOLS-TECH], provides suggestions and examples of how
each checkpoint might be satisfied. It also includes references to other
accessibility resources (such as platform-specific software accessibility
guidelines) that give additional information on how a tool may satisfy each
checkpoint. Readers are strongly encouraged to become familiar with the
techniques document. Please note that the techniques are merely suggested
implementations of the checkpoints, alternative strategies may be used to
meet the requirements of the checkpoints.
End of revision
As previously suggested I have included the goal statement and have
addressed the awkward wording of the second paragraph.
Jutta
I would suggest adding to the last sentence of the 1st paragraph
such as conformance to accessible standards (i.e.,
HTML 4.0), accessibility checking and correcting,
prompting, appropriate documentation and help,
and navigation mechanisms.
PJ: This is one of the "main" purposes and the
majority of the "meat" of the document and should
be briefly introduced in the introduction.(strikethrough:
Regards,
Phill Jenkins
Jutta,
Thank you for the rewording, I think this is clearer and addresses several
issues.
I also agree with Phill's recommendation to add:
In the interests of having the intro read as smoothly as possible for
people who haven't been living &amp; breathing this, a few other very minor
suggestions, if time allows:
- break up the new first paragraph, right before "For detailed information
about what constitutes accessible content..." so it's not so long to plow
through;
- at "Because most of the Web is created using authoring tools..." specify
instead "Because most of the content of the Web is created using authoring
tools..." since the Web also involves servers handling transport protocols;
- change the "the" to "this" at "The document provides guidelines..."
since, given the reference to WCAG at the end of the previous sentence, the
reader at first assumes this is another reference to WCAG.
- Judy
Judy Brewer jbrewer@w3.org +1.617.258.9741 http://www.w3.org/WAI
Director, Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI) International Program Office
World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)
MIT/LCS Room NE43-355, 545 Technology Square, Cambridge, MA, 02139, USA
Phil,
The sentence you cite refers to making the tool accessible to authors with
disabilities. The examples you cite refer to ensuring that the content
created is accessible, with the exception of "navigation mechanisms."
I take your point that we need to give examples of what we do include and
taking Judy's comments as well I propose the following re-revision of the
middle Introductory paragraph:
Begin re-revision:
An accessible authoring tool is accessible software that produces
accessible content for the Web. Thus the goals of this document can be
stated as follows: that the authoring tool be accessible to authors
regardless of disability, that the authoring tool generate accessible
content by default, and that the authoring tool support and encourage the
author in creating accessible content. Because most of the content of the
Web is created using authoring tools, they play a critical role in ensuring
the
accessibility of the Web. Since the Web is both a means of receiving
information and communicating information, it is important that both the
web content produced and the authoring tool itself be accessible.
For detailed information about what constitutes accessible content this
document relies on the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines
[WAI-WEBCONTENT]. This document provides guidelines for designing authoring
tools that generate web content that conforms to the Web Content
Accessibility Guidelines and that support and encourage authors to create
content that conforms to the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines. This is
achieved by taking steps such as conformance to accessible standards (i.e.,
HTML 4.0), accessibility checking and correcting, prompting, appropriate
documentation and help. Similarly,this document does not address general
accessible software design but relies on other sources. It does address
accessible design considerations specific to Web authoring tools such as
providing flexible editing views, navigation aids and access to display
properties for authors.
End re-revision
The current re-rewording (or re-revision) of the "middle Introductory
paragraph) gets my vote.
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
I received 3 comments from developers about the introduction/guidelines:
Developer 1 said:
The revision seems better to me.
Developer 2 said:
The logic of this sentence is mind boggling quote Since the Web is both a means
of receiving information and communicating information, it is important that
both the web content produced and the authoring tool itself be accessible.
endquote. I think the sentence is constructed just to restate the accessible
tool requirement and the same logic could be used to require engine maintenance
courses for a drivers license.
I want accessible tools too. But the overwhelming issue is accessible content.
When the introduction does not give that impression, the introduction fails.
The focus of *several* sentences is the accessibility of the tool. The first
sentence, "accessible authoring tool..." - in common parlance that means
software accessibility. The first goal is software accessibility. I claim the
"communicating information" sentence is there for the purpose of accessible
software.
I much prefer the prior introduction wording.
End Developer 2
Developer 3 said:
Phill,
The rewording is fine. However, I think the nature of the authoring tool
guideline is too stringent. A tool can create accessible Web pages without
being accessible itself. I thought the guideline was meant to dictate what a
tool should create. Shouldn't the authoring tool requirements be evaluated
separately? I agree that in an ideal world that all software would be
accessible, but shouldn't we take it one step at a time? To ask a developer to
put requirements into his/her software so the tool is creating accessible Web
pages is only asking him/her to modify the features of the product. To ask a
developer to make his/her software accessible may be asking for a total redesign
of the tool itself. This is too much too soon. A guideline shouldn't overwhelm
developers so much so that they decide it's all too much and do nothing at all.
End Developer 3
These comments are being sent to the list as example of reaction to the
Intro/guidelines. It's not necessary to discuss each comment and debate whether
or not the developer got the "right impression". But their reaction should be
taken into consideration in our decisions. More at the call
Regards,
Phill Jenkins 512-838-4517
Accessibility Program Manager
