after wrestling with your sources for a few hours, i finally managed
to make it compile. all through the compilation i was expecting the
thing to segfault in the end, and of course it did, thanks for wasting
my time
and lastly, i should kick myself for even giving you a chance, given
that i saw the words "style sheets" and HTML 4.0 and
X-fill-in-your-favorite-information-overload-architechture
you know why nobody in their right mind uses style sheets or
CVS or automake? well, because all these things are designed to
make life more complicated, and frankly there are still a few of
us left that prefer to make life easier for ourselves, after all,
that's what these machines were supposed to do in the first place,
they're not there to create work for its own sake, or to give
snobs computer jargon with witch they can discriminate others.
i don't know why i'm writing this to you, perhaps in retaliation
for wasting my time. i'm sure you'll read over this, understand it,
and promply block it out of your mind, because you're too far along
in your psychosis to turn back now, but what the hell, i gave it
a try.
If you'd rather have your web pages look like they were printed out on a
teletype out of some misbegotten nostalgia, by all means, don't use CSS or
HTML 4. Get out your Rainbow and hack a CP/M port of Lynx together, there
should still be some 300 Baud modems out there at yard sales.*
NOBODY in their right mind uses CSS or CVS or automake? How 20th century.
Rather, NOBODY in their right mind as their first response to encountering a
problem with a program launches a tirade at the developers; those in their
right mind describe the problem to the developers and hope they (collective;
referent: user and developers) can together isolate it and fix it.
P. T. Rourke
NOT affiliated with Amaya, W3C, or any of its members or affiliated entities
*The point being that if everyone had stuck with Rainbows and Apple IIs
there would be no web. Nothing against Lynx, a very handy program; and you
certainly couldn't get Mosaic to work on a Rainbow
Uh, you might have avoided this by downloading the binary version.
If you think stylesheets are designed to make life more
complicated, you only demonstrate that you have no idea what
stylesheets are.
I suggest you hang around w3.org and you might learn something
about stylesheets and similar information overload technologies.
Thanks -
Jeff Rankin
User Interface &amp; Web technologies
O'Neil &amp; Associates, Inc.
937.461.1602 x 3504
[Note: this is not meant to be a flame or an advocacy message. It is,
however, intended to address various points and opinions that have
come-up in this particular discussion thread.]
Okay, now we've countered extremity with extremity. Let's try for a
little perspective, shall we?
While I don't encounter much of a problem with HTML4, I don't use CSS
much currently, because of the problems I've encountered with
cross-platform compatibility and accessibility concerns. Until differing
browsers handle CSS similarly, I tend to avoid it. If you don't, good on
you. My coding needs and user base may be very different from yours.
As to Lynx and 300 bps modems: While 300bps is overkill (underkill?),
it's easy to forget that Lynx is still widely used (I use it frequently on
my Linux box, when I want quick information and don't care about
graphics), and given the increase in 'web-enabled' cellphones, PDAs, &amp;c.,
non-graphical compatibility (including 'graceful degridation')is an issue
that should be taken more seriously by web developers.
I work frequently with users who are blind and visually impaired. Many,
many pages that they run into either crash or confuse their text-to-speech
programs / dynamic braille displays so badly that they're unreadable.
OTOH, Lynx-compatible pages are generally far less of a problem for them.
(Yes, O'Rourke, I know you didn't mean to slam Lynx.)
This issue is increasingly important as more and more blind and visually
impaired users are discovering the internet (especially the WWW and
e-commerce) as ways to increase their independence. The W3C has released
accessibility recommendations which address both 'web-enabled'
non-graphical compatibility and accessibility for the blind / visually
impaired, but I don't see their recommendations being adopted much.
Oh, and there'd still be a WWW if everyone were still running on Apple
II's and Rainbows. It simply wouldn't be graphical. While it might not
be as popular, it certainly would still exist. It was a good method for
presenting information even before the "Here's a photo of me so you can
see what I look like in RL" craze that lead to the graphical explosion
Mosaic ushered in.
Er... Last I looked, even in the IT industry slamming products and / or
attitudes because they were just over three months old was a bit
premature.
Now _that_ is a sentiment I can (mostly) agree with. While I understand
why compiling the source rather than the binaries would be preferrable,
and can certainly sympathize with the frustration involved in a downloaded
source that simply will *not* compile when one had expected it'd be an
easy job, posting tirades like the message starting this thread is not
only unadvisable and incindiary, but foolish as well.
Of course, it could've been a troll.... g.
J. S. Brady
Not affiliated with any of the above either.
(See above.)
[Original tirade snipped. Bandwidth may no longer be at a premium, but
once was more than enough.]
"A common mistake that people made when trying to design something
completely foolproof was to underestimate the ingenuity of complete
fools."
- Douglas Adams, Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy
:While I don't encounter much of a problem with HTML4, I don't use CSS
:much currently, because of the problems I've encountered with
:cross-platform compatibility and accessibility concerns. Until differing
:browsers handle CSS similarly, I tend to avoid it. If you don't, good on
:you. My coding needs and user base may be very different from yours.
my addition:
one very helpful resource i have used for style sheets is bradbury's
topstyle editor (i'm not affiliated). in particular, i like the
cross-browser check, and the built-in w3c validation option. you can set it
to perform for various standards (such as which css definition you want to
use or what browser compatibility you want) and run a check to see what will
and won't work in the various browsers. it's not really that hard to do css
that degrades gracefully under those conditions. you can get a free (nag
ware) demo that is quite functional, or register for about $45 i believe.
as a note, i investigated several style sheet editors, and found this one
the best. i had never done thing one with style sheets before that and after
reading the docs and doing the tutorial, i feel comfortable that i can use
style sheets pretty effectively. and they are so powerful!
it is also my understanding that using style sheets as opposed to hard
coding style is helpful for making *more* accessible web documents,
separating structure from presentation and making it possible for users to
override your settings with their own settings and giving them more control
over how content is conveyed. plus on browsers without css support, they see
just a plainer version of your page--not hurting the usability at all. not
to mention how incredibly easy it is to implement style changes after you've
coded 20 pages!
i find the combination of amaya--only producing valid code--and style
sheets, doing things the "right" way, to be a great match, and am very
excited to be learning so much new stuff.
i'm sorry to hear the other list member had such a hard time with amaya; i
realize there are several things i am not currently informed enough to do,
like fiddling with source code or compiling my own version--many times i
don't really understand what you all are talking about (but that's how one
learns). and people will clearly have a difficult time using the software
if they don't already have a good understanding of how to use html tags. but
i personally was thrilled with finding a mostly-wysiwyg editor that produces
valid code, i want to improve as a designer, and using amaya with css, i
believe, has really allowed me to do that, fwiw.
dixie vogel
JSB, Good comments, thank you. Obviously my rhetoric was intentionally over
the top (i.e., "so twentieth century" - technically the twentieth century
doesn't end until midnight, December 31 this year at the International
Dateline; the phrase was an allusion, though I can't remember what to). But
to
dismiss CSS as just so much bloat is at best misguided
(and to do so in such a disrespectful manner is deserving of just the level
of
dismissal I leveled). There are obvious problems (mostly with regard to
poor execution on the part of UA vendors, and legacy browser use) with using
it as a top-to-bottom solution right now, but careful use (looking out for
graceful degradation, as JSB says; I like that phrase) can be very, very
successful.
As you said, I didn't mean to slam Lynx. It is VERY VERY important to use
it as you've suggested to support accessibility. My point was to slam the
idea that new = bad, old = good. CSS isn't even that new; all three of the
major commercial graphical browsers support it now to one degree or another
(obviously the support is cranky, at best, but I think we all wish they
supported it completely). Good page design should be able to manage pages
that look good with or without CSS, to support legacy browsers and
non-visual browsers. If my page isn't readable in Lynx *and* either Mosaic
3 or HotJava, as well as NS 3/4, IE 4/5, and the current Moz, I don't put it
up until it does pass that test (I'm gradually working Amaya into that test
routine, too). But I don't worry any more about making my page beautiful in
Netscape 3, just easy to read.
CSS provides web publishers a resource for vastly improving the readability
of web pages and reducing download time (how many font codes can a single
CSS line eliminate?). Two pages can be readable, but one more
readable than the other: for instance, I use a little bit of color to
emphasize defining occurrences and product names and such through CSS - and
they show up as em, dfn or strong in NS 3. The key thing is to avoid using
it for positioning and other dynamic purposes until such time as it is
properly supported and non-supporting browsers are as rare as Mosaic 3 is
now.
Let us point out as well that aural style sheets are part of the CSS2
definition, and promise to vastly improve the user experience for non-visual
users.
As for the claim that with Rainbows and Apple IIs we'd still have the web -
uh, no, we wouldn't - because if no one had had the ambition to improve upon
the Apple II, no one would have had the ambition to try to hyperlink
documents across computer networks, either. A rhetorical trick, I'll admit,
but the point behind my comments remains valid. Apple IIs were great for
what we wanted to do the first couple of years after they came out. Now we
expect desktops to do a great deal more than the Apple II ever did or could
do.
Ultimately Amaya is a demonstration that number of new technologies (CSS,
MathML,
clean structural markup, and most importantly editing in the display
browser) are possible. No point calling it bloatware and slamming the
developers when you've already closed your mind to the value of the
capabilities the software was designed to demonstrate. (and no, I do not
mean JSB). I think LKM's and JSB's postings are good examples of how to
contribute to a project rather than ridicule it because things didn't work
exactly
the way you wanted them to the first time you tried.
PTR (no O', thank you)
Left in because it all bears repeating:
encountering a
their
(collective;
Michael is not quite as far along as "Dix" but echoes the sentiment !
I learn lots from these exchanges - now I want to know where to find
"bradbury's topstyle editor ..."
Michael is not quite as far along as "Dix" but echoes the sentiment !
I learn lots from these exchanges - now I want to know where to find
"bradbury's topstyle editor ..."
I, too, am trying to write pages for an audience with a wide variety of
browsers - and like very much the idea of being able to use AMAYA
as a major tool to also keep the pages accessible for the visually
impaired. And maybe one of these days WE will be able to contribute
s.t. that others will be able to learn from ( including our mistakes !)
Thanks, Irene &amp; all - this is a great list !
Michael in Cochabamba 8^)
Date forwarded: Mon, 3 Apr 2000 13:47:45 -0400 (EDT)
Send reply to: dix@sunflower.com
From: "dix" dix@sunflower.com
Date sent: Mon, 3 Apr 2000 12:47:10 -0500
Subject: css (borderline off-topic), was RE: your bloatware
Forwarded by: www-amaya@w3.org
