id=""vines.Bh0E+U,V7rA"@cips06.ets.org"
PRI-9 LANG Attribute
A previous memo from G. Vanderheiden says:
"An AC Member felt that checkpoint 4.1 should have the same priority as
checkpoint 4.3 which has a priority of 3. They were aware of no browser
or assistive technologies that supported the LANG attribute today. They
felt that marking a phrase with the LANG attribute will not "make a
difference" until user agents support it - and should not therefore be
required above a priority 3 level."
Checkpoint 4.1 reads:
4.1 Clearly identify changes in the natural language of a document's text
and any text equivalents (e.g., captions). [Priority 1]
For example, in HTML use the "lang" attribute. In XML, use "xml:lang".
Server operators should configure their server to take advantage of the
content negotiation mechanisms of the HTTP protocol so that clients can
automatically retrieve documents of the preferred language.
Techniques for checkpoint 4.1
My comment:
I favor a priority 3 rating, if the checkpoint is retained. The fact that
violation of the checkpoint does not prevent access signals that it should
not have a Priority 1. From the evidence cited on the list, it appears that
adhering to the checkpoint will not remove "significant barriers" (Priority
2). So I think that Priority 3 is the best.
While I really like the idea behind checkpoints 4.1 and 4.3, I am concerned
that they may lower the credibility of the document because they don't
strike one as disability access issues. Generally, a disability access
issue is one that affects individuals with disabilities much more than
people without disabilities. That this is a disability issue is not as
obvious as it is for most almost all other checkpoints.
One technical issue that must be resolved for this checkpoint is how to
note language changes within alt-text.
If it were important to lighten the load upon Web content developers, I
would tend to look at checkpoints 4.1 and 4.3 as possible candidates for
deletion. I am not extremely confident that the accessibility gain is worth
the work imposed upon Web content developers. If the gains are small, then
checkpoints like these will discourage Web content developers from striving
for triple-A conformance.
Checkpoint 4.3 reads:
4.3 Identify the primary natural language of a document. [Priority 3]
For example, in HTML, set the "lang" attribute on the HTML element. In XML,
use "xml:lang".
Techniques for checkpoint 4.3
Eric G. Hansen, Ph.D.
Development Scientist
Educational Testing Service
ETS 12-R
Rosedale Road
Princeton, NJ 08541
(W) 609-734-5615
E-mail: ehansen@ets.org
After reading the whole thread about the LANG-attribute I'm getting puzzled
more and more. So please clear up my three main questions below.
1. Is there a clear advice not to use more than one language in a page?
2. Does the working group still think the LANG-attribute is redundant in
relation to the characterset code?
3. Does the workinggroup think the LANG-attribute is important for
accessibility?
Related to question number 1 it is wise to take in account that several
European countries have more than one official language. Switzerland has four
languages, Belgium has three and Finland uses Swedish beside the Finnish. This
is only a limited example coming up to my mind when writing.
As Jaap pointed out the HTML standard supports the mix of several languages in
one page. I think that web-content can be compared to a multi-lingual Tourist
Information flyer in many cases. In the margins one can sometimes find little
flags or country abbreviations (in graphics, no ALT of course!) indicating the
language used in a part of the text. For selective reading in a visual world
that can be of help, but it is far insufficient when using screenreaders and
voice output.
Related to question number 2 it was Nir who made quiet clear that
LANG-attribute and characterset are related mainly in one direction. To write
a certain language properly, the characterset must support all glyphs used in
that language. But many charactersets give multi-lingual support. UTF-8 is the
best example for that while it supports English, Swedish, French, Greek, even
Hebrew and much more. A page can contain more than one language but only one
characterset.
Let us not forget that making Greek or Russian names more readable in an
English text they are many times written using the latin script although the
original writing would be using the specific Greek or Russian characterset.
Even though it would be much better if a screenreader could speak a Greek name
in the Greek way and not the English way.
The LANG-attribute (in combination with the characterset information) is the
only means defined yet to facilitate this in an acceptable way.
Related to number 3 can be added that the fact that nobody uses the yet
defined standards is not the right (not saying: the wrong!) argument to lower
a priority. Perhaps the conclusion could be that it is an Authoring Tool or an
Education and Outreach topic. The whole problem is not mainly a matter of
technique but more a matter of understanding the problems.
So please do not push this very important topic aside using the American way
of global thinking that all information is in English. While on the other hand
giving the impression that other languages don't carry information that need
to be accessible.
I don't blame anyone for not knowing that many countries use more than one
language. But take the advise and listen carefully, get well informed and
think over all related facts before making any decision on this topic.
met vriendelijke groet / with kind regards,
Henk Wittingen - Ede gld - NL
WWW:
E-mail:
? henk.wittingen@inter.NL.net (thuis/private)
? henk.wittingen@mail.ing.nl (werk/office)
? +31654605805@gin.nl (GSM-SMS/Subject only!)
No, there is not, and nor should there be.
The working group as such has never held that opinion, though some of its
members may have done so. However, it is very clear that language and
character set are quite distinct. For example, a number of European
languages can be represented in the ISO latin-1 character set.
Yes.
