Hi,
Can WAI establish a web site for legal information concerning
web accessibility? It be great to have a one-stop shopping center.
It would need to be broken down by country.
Scott
JW:: I understand that in the early stages of the WAI, a project of this
kind was attempted, but that reliable information was not readily
obtainable. I think there is definitely scope for such a site. However,
the primary task of the WAI educational effort should be to persuade
authors and software developers to adopt universal design strategies out
of a sense of justice and responsibility, rather than to raise the threat
of legal liability. It is preferable to appeal to the high ethical
standards and integrity of web content providers and software developers
than to base one's argument on the provisions of antidiscrimination law.
Nevertheless, it may be useful to provide information concerning the
relevance of anti-discrimination laws in different countries to the
provision of web-based documents and services. The Human Rights and Equal
Opportunity Commission in Australia has already done so by releasing a
discussion paper, a reference to which is included in the WAI page author
guidelines.
Hi,
I think that such a web site is important. Part of my believe is that
disabled people need to be self-advocates and such a site would give
them some of the necessary tools. I lean towards using the carrot and stick
approach. I usually like to start off with a soft sell, i.e. just giving
them the information about what is needed. If no response, clarifying
more about how the current condition is affecting my life as a fellow
human being. If still no response, then I go to the stick bin. (The web site
could be the "stick bin".) Often, I need to only lightly hit them on
the shins with the stick to get them to pay attention.
Having worked at a public university on and off, I've seen enlightenment work
only part of the time. Many times enlightenment loses to budgetary bulliness
or bureaucratic backwardness.
Scott
You might want to go back and check the deliverables plan in the Education
&amp; Outreach Working Group charter -- http://www.w3.org/WAI/EO/charter --
it's already in there.
We find plenty of interest all around at what kind of policies are in
place, and in development, so it seems only appropriate to compile these as
a reference.
- Judy
site
Judy Brewer jbrewer@w3.org 617-258-9741
Director, Web Accessibility Initiative International Program Office
World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)
MIT/LCS Room NE43-355
545 Technology Square, Cambridge MA 02139 USA
