I'd like to bring up one another (small) point.
Virtually all banner advertising on the web relies on redirects for
click-throughs so that click rates can be measured. This means that the
redirection to the advertiser's web site will always be an unverifiable
transaction.
So, when a user visits an advertiser's site directly, cookie assignment on
the home/jump page is possible, whereas when the user visits the page via
an advertisement, it will not be possible.
Designers of web sites (at least the large percentage who will advertise on
the web) will have to take into account that cookie assignments on their
home page may fail a large percentage of the time. If they wish to measure
number of unique visitors to their site, they will get a highly inaccurate
reading since often multiple cookies will be assignied to a single user
before one "sticks".
This is not a major flaw, but it is inelegant, and I just want to make sure
everyone has considered this.
Dwight
This is reportedly already the case to due to faulty proxies. I believe
Hotwired keeps an extensive database of which proxies fail to properly
pass-through cookie assignments as a result.
My point is simply that other system faults already require the complexity
you mention.
M. Hedlund hedlund@best.com
Dwight Merriman:
The redirection won't be unverifiable if the script which does the counting
and redirection to the page is on the target site already.
Yes, if the script is on the site which served the banner. But I don't see
this as a big problem.
Some careful design can work around this: suppress assignment of cookie if
the referer field shows that the user comes from the click-through script.
Note however that higly inaccurare readings are almost guaranteed anyway
because many people disable cookies, or have browsers which do not support
them.
Koen.
I see this as a big problem. Many, Many sites are using cookie
technology to
simply rotate banners. (Not necessarily to track user activity, although
this
can be a result of the same technology.) Many of these sites do not have
access
to place scripts on their servers. You will be depriving a huge number
of people
a functionality that they have been using for a while.
The bigger entities will be able to place programs on their servers to
implement
central ad serving and duplicate all of the features that cookies
provide.
(including abusing the privacy issues) While the smaller entities will
be given
a burden of not being able to use central ad serving techniques.
Some Network examples :
Networks such as Burst!, Doubleclick, Web Rep, etc
Some Banner Exchange examples :
Link Exchange,Banner Central, Net On
Some Banner Serving Services :
Focallink, GlobalTrak
Thanks,
Dave Stein
Burst!, http://www.burstmedia.com
