(first sent to webont just as valid for RDFCore)
I have made two comments [2],[3] on this new WD [1] that the WG may wish to
endorse, or follow up on.
The relevant text is:
3.1.2 Desiderata
3.1.2.2 Systematic treatment of fundamental facets (RQ-24)
Make the treatment of fundamental facets more systematic. Define canonical
forms for all types, and specify the rules for generating the canonical
form, given a value. Clarify the status of anySimpleType and define its
value space (if any). Clarify the assignment of types to nodes in the
absence of relevant schema components. Distinguish our identity relation
from the mathematical relation of quantitative equality.
and
2.5.1 Desiderata
2.5.1.1 First class objects (RQ-23)
Define an algorithm for generating a URI for any construct in a schema (or,
possibly, in a schema document), thus making schema constructs first-class
objects in the Web. Minimally the algorithm should cover element( type)s,
attributes, simple types, complex types, and notations. Optionally it may
also cover other constructs such as named groups and items in enumerations
of legal values.
[1]
[2]
[3]
you beat me to it :)
i was about to suggest to Brian that this go on the agenda for friday. It
would be good to have some rdfcore input/review of this document...
dan
* Jeremy Carroll jjc@hplb.hpl.hp.com [2003-01-22 19:26+0000]
Are XML Schema datatyping facets meant here? If so, then
this is outside the scope of RDF datatyping. RDF datatyping
does not provide mechanisms for defining datatypes, only
for denoting datatypes and associating lexical forms with
datatypes to unambiguously denote a datatype value. How
a given datatype is defined, e.g. whether it is with XML
Schema or some other framework, is irrelevant to RDF.
NO. Definitely not. If a datatype defines canonical forms, fine,
but RDF Datatyping does not require them. They are insignificant
to the the semantics and therefore such a requirement would not
be justified and would preclude the use of datatypes with RDF
which do not define canonical lexical forms.
This is a datatype specific function completely outside the scope
of RDF datatyping and should not be addressed in the RDF specs.
RDF does not say anything about any particular datatype. This
is for the XML Schema WG to define, and/or to be addressed in
a separate Note addressing XML Schema datatyping issues in RDF.
I would expect, though, that the class extension of xsd:anySimpleType
would be equivalent to the membership of rdfs:Literal.
Default types? Other than rdf:Resource? I don't understand this
one.
V unir ab pyhr jung guvf zrnaf, ohg BX ol zr ;-)
Ummm, XPointer?
Patrick
Patrick Stickler, Nokia/Finland, (+358 40) 801 9690, patrick.stickler@nokia.com
