[This was originally sent on April 8 to ietf-charsets@iana.org.
This alias appears to be nonfunctional again.]
The enclosed registration of 6 charsets is rejected.
The reasons are:
- The procedure has not been followed. There is no procedure for
registering more than one character set in a submission form.
- The registration does not say whether or not the character sets given
are usable as "charset" values for use with MIME text/* body parts.
Note: The charset reviewer finds that the registration author
has failed to understand the meaning of this requirement.
- The registration refers to an internet-draft. The internet-draft says
(like all internet-drafts) that "It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts
as reference material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."
- The registration refers to a non-published (at the time of writing)
specification. The registration needs to be updated to reflect the fact
that the specification is published; a stable URL to the specification
itself would be appreciated, but is not mandatory as long as it can be
located using its publication information.
The character set reviewer will review these registrations again once they
are submitted in a proper format and with adequate information.
NOTE: The reason given for the publication of these character sets before
the publication of the I-D is that the author wants the MIBenum numbers
assigned so that they can be included in the RFC. The traditional means of
accomplishing this function is to include the registration template in the
text of the I-D, and include an "IANA note" asking that the registration
be completed, and MIBenum numbers assigned, before publication of the RFC.
NOTE: There is nothing in the procedures that prevents a wholly Japanese
standard from being referenced as "openly available".
However, the nature of the referenced standard has made it impossible for
the charset reviewer to locate a copy of it, or to check whether the
requirements for stability or clearness of CCS/CES references given in RFC
2278 section 3.1 are fulfilled. Others may choose to bring challenge on
this point in the next round of review.
The decision of the charset reviewer may be appealed to the IESG under
section 4.2 of RFC 2278.
Harald Tveit Alvestrand
Date: Tue, 14 Dec 1999 21:44:31 +0900 (JST)
From: Masataka Ohta mohta@necom830.hpcl.titech.ac.jp
Subject: Registration of new charsets
X-Mailer: ELM [version 2.3 PL11]
Charset name(s):
ISO-2022-JP-3
ISO-2022-JP-3-plane1
Shift_JISX0213
Shift_JISX0213-plane1
EUC-JISX0213
EUC-JISX0213-plane1
Published specification(s):
The standard below is in Japanese but draft-ohta-jcs-jis-x-0213-00.txt,
which is intended to be an Informational RFC, gives some explanation
on the charsets in English.
[JISX0213] Japanese Industrial Standards Committee, "7-bit and 8-bit
double byte coded extended Kanji sets for information interchange",
JIS X 0213:2000, Japanese Standards Association, (To be published in
January 2000, draft accessible through http://jcs.aa.tufs.ac.jp/).
Person &amp; email address to contact for further information:
Masataka Ohta
Computer Center, Tokyo Institute of Technology
2-12-1, O-okayama, Meguro-ku, Tokyo 152, JAPAN
Kouichi Yasuoka
Data Processing Center, Kyoto University
Kyoto 606-8501, JAPAN
Kouji Shibano
Information Resource Center
Institute for the Study of Languages and Cultures of Asia and Africa
Tokyo University of Foreign Studies
Harald Tveit Alvestrand, EDB Maxware, Norway
Harald.Alvestrand@edb.maxware.no
Harald;
Given your versatile way of interpreting text, we are glad
that we can ignore all the written rules of IETF and your
text can be interpreted that you approve the registration of
6 charsets.
Thank you very much.
If you feel any problem interpreting this reply, you may
ask Jon Postel for help.
Masataka Ohta
I would like to know what you mean by "we". The JSC committee
which developed JIS X 0213? You, Yasuoka-san, and Shibano-san?
Apparently, "we" cannot mean all Japanese, because I do not
agree. I know that many Japanese experts do not agree either.
If you would like to make an exhibition of yourself, that is
fine. But please clearly say that you are talking for yourself
only.
MURATA Makoto muraw3c@attglobal.net
