I have two comments on the latest page authoring guidelines.
One:
A1 technique 7 suggest to use an OBJECT's title as alternate content.
I think it is not that good, since "older" browsers
which do not support OBJECT will never render the title.
They would ofcourse render the content of the OBJECT element.
Also HTML4.0 browsers that were developed before
the WAI UA guidelines became W3C recommendation
may not render the title of an non-retrieved object, but
will do as the HTML4.0 spec says, i.e. render the content.
Two:
"C1. Only use technologies defined in a W3C specification..."
So we can't use javascript or even HTML2.0?
Regards,
Nir Dagan
Assistant Professor of Economics
Universidad Pompeu Fabra
Barcelona (Spain)
website: http://www.nirdagan.com
"There is nothing quite so practical as a good theory."
-- A. Einstein
Nir said:
Only use w3c recommendations means we can't use JavaScript or HTML 2.0
And I reply:
Well, HTML 2.0 in so far as it is a subset of HTML 3.2 or HTML 4.0 is
fine. Actually, HTML 3.2 is not altogether OK, because it allows for IMG
without ALT (for example)
And Javascript is not really accessible. I don't if it is not used at
all. But that won't cut much ice in the real world.
Perhaps we should think about where the guideline fits - it is of crucial
importance that platform-independence can be maintained, and the
requirement for using w3c recommendations was meant to stop people
relying on proprietary extensions to provide any information. So maybe
something like:
(Prority 1) Ensure that all content is presented and comprehensible when
correctly rendered according to w3c recommendations for HTML 4.0, AND
that all the foregoing guidelines have been followed with regard to
content media (eg movies, scripts, etc) for which there is no w3c
recommendation
(or something like that)
Charles McCN
Hello,
there are two guidelines that relate to this topic:
A.9 - Ensure that pages using newer W3C features (technologies) will
transform gracefully into an accessible form if the feature is not
supported or is turned off. (includes frames, scripts, style sheets,
applets).
C.1 - Only use technologies defined in a W3C specification and use them in
an accessible manner. Where not possible, provide an accessible
alternative pag that does. (includes PDF and other formats, using latest
W3C specs, avoid deprecated elements, and how to create alternative pages)
Therefore, we have said that non-W3C technologies *can* be used. Also,
although both applets and scripts are not W3C technologies, they are
supported by W3C language features (i.e., the APPLET, SCRIPT, and OBJECT
elements). Personally, I think the two guidelines are not in contradiction
and handle the issues well.
However, if people disagree, perhaps the 2 guidelines could be combined
into one
guideline that says, "Newer W3C technologies and non-W3C technologies need
to transform gracefully".
One worry is that separating "new W3C" from "non-W3C" would cause problems
in the future. Case in point, the "behaviors" proposal that will make
scripting/dynamic content a W3C activity. Therefore, currently it is not a
"non-W3C" technology but in the future it will be a "new W3C" technology.
Also, keep in mind that applet does not just refer to Java and script does
not just refer to JavaScript - there's VBscript, PERL, or whatever else
people are able to use.
--the editors
