Jason:
Phonetic dictionaries could be created, in a format yet to be defined
(perhaps based on an XML DTD) and then linked into a document via RDF.
Max:
I still suspect that this won't solve problem like the examples 2a and
2b in shown in my proposal. (Again, I need to do some study on RDF to
understand it better, though.)
ASG: We have been told that there will be ways to point very
finely into documents with XLL and to include RDF fragments
inline in documents. The details of how this is going to work
are not clear to me. But markup with capability parallel to the
spell-it-out ability in ABBR should be possible.
Jason:
Each IPA character also needs to be associated with an SGML character
entity so that the phonetic markup can be typed into a standard text
editor. There are many users, including myself, who type HTML directly
into a standard text editor or word processor instead of using a dedicated
HTML authoring tool..
Max:
Yes, if we decide on using IPA, it definetely needs to be done.
However, if it's not so simple for people using plain
editor/word-processing-software to write phonetic stuff, we may not be
able to get too many people to use this mechanism.
ASG:
I have learned of one typeable transcription of IPA. It is known
as SAMPA and more information can be found starting at
Note that the "English" application at this site works only for
British English. I can get you an American English equivalent
if we need it.
Clearly, more Japanese will be able to type kana right than
English speakers will be able to type SAMPA right!
These phonetic scripts will be a little like HTML in that regard.
It is possible to write it with any text terminal. It takes some
skill and most people won't bother. But it is important that you
can access the source in text and fix it because the automatic
methods won't get it right always, either. At first there will
be a lot of cut-and-try but that works as soon as browsers and
access agents can vocalize from the script.
-- Al
The main limitation of the "phonetic dictionary" approach is that it is
unable to accommodate homographs, which occur sometimes in English and
perhaps in other languages as well. Modern speech synthesis software, such
as recent versions of DECTALK, attempt to analyse sentences containing
homographs and to choose the correct pronunciation, but this is one area
in which phonetic markup could be useful. Would RDF make it possible to
control the pronunciation of a specific word within a particular sentence,
without affecting it in other contexts?
This doesn't necessitate changes to HTML though, if the
pronunciation is expressible as a CSS property, since these
can already be expressed in HTML via the style attribute.
In my talk I raised the issue of where the pronunciation depends on
the grammatical context, and also where it depends on the knowing
the topic at a deeper level. There is some value to being able to
represent grammatical constraints on which pronunciation to use, but
when it comes to understanding the deeper meaning of the text, this
is way beyond what is practical.
Regards,
-- Dave Raggett dsr@w3.org http://www.w3.org/People/Raggett
World Wide Web Consortium (on assignment from HP Labs)
Perhaps IPA characters could be used to specify each phoneme, and extra
parameters could be included in the markup, for instance as attributes of
XML elements that would surround the relevant phonetic data. It is
important to take advantage of whatever form of phonetic transcription
will be most widely recognised and understood. IPA is an international
standard and is probably better known than any other phonetic script.
Of course, if necessary, we could define two or three different
representations of the phonetic data, IPA plus one or two alternatives;
but writing a separate script for each language would probably be too
labour intensive. In any case, a common function of phonetic markup will
probably be to define the pronunciation of words or expressions that
originate in a language other than that of the document itself.
I am thinking here primarily of the phonetic dictionary format rather than
of any style language proposal of the type to which Dave Raggett has
alluded.
Incidentally, this discussion is moving well beyond the parameters of the
HTML 4 and CSS 2 review. I hope that the PF mailing list can be set up
soon in order to provide a more appropriate forum in which to continue the
threads relating to phonetic markup and XML/XSL.
