Hi,
Should Checkpoint 1.1 have a similar note as in 1.6 for important images?
Should there be a link to the example of ASCII art from either the
Guidelines or the Techniques?
Should there be a link in the Guidelines to either mention of 'Brief
descriptions of images' sections in the Techniques (1.2 and 2.7)?
Perhaps the mention of screen readers in the list at the beginning of
Section A should have a link to the description of screen readers in
Appendix C.
Checkpoint 11.1 has a link "see also Guideline 11". Is this a typo?
Checkpoint 11.3 says "Provide keyboard short-cuts to links". Does this
mean for all links? If there were many links on a page this would be
impossible.
Regards,
Chetz and Helen.
Chetz Colwell and Helen Petrie,
c.g.colwell@herts.ac.uk , h.l.petrie@herts.ac.uk .
Sensory Disabilities Research Unit,
University of Hertfordshire,
UK.
WC:: This note should be applied to the entire section.
WC::
hmm, yes we used to and should again.
WC:: as per last week's teleconference, we no longer have "brief
description." Once the minutes are posted see the discussion about the
title attribute.
WC:: sure
WC:: yes, it should be to guideline 10. this has already been corrected.
WC::
we were intentionally vague because there are several unknowns - how will
user agents implement short cut keys? how usable will they be? the group
as an item in the "future open issues" list that relates to the usability
of accesskeys. once implemented and testable we will know more.
--w
Regarding the provision of keyboard short-cuts to links:
Perhaps the Guidelines could be up-front about this and state that how such
shortcuts will be used can't be predicted, but they will be available to
certain devices.
Chetz
I'm not sure about the wording, but the topic should be
introduced in the techniques document.
- Ian
Ian Jacobs (jacobs@w3.org)
Hello Chetz, thanks for the comments!
Instead, I propose removing the note from 1.6:
When replacing ASCII art with an image, specify a text
equivalent for the image.
and make making a general statement in the rationale for the guideline
that reads:
Note. When text equivalents become long
(more than a sentence or two), shorten the text equivalent
and add a description as well. See also Guideline 2.
Added.
The section on brief descriptions has been removed.
Added.
Yes, it has been fixed.
I will raise this as an issue with the WG.
Thank you,
- Ian
Ian Jacobs (jacobs@w3.org)
