Another weak point in the spec is with entities. The current model allows
an entity declaration to have a replacement string or a replacement
substring. Period. What about the public/system identifiers (which may be
necessary for implementations to perform "lazy" evaluations of an external
entity), the notation, etc. It may also make sense to include an enum that
provides information about the type of entity: INTERNAL, EXTERNAL, PARSED,
UNPARSED, etc.
Jeff Mackay
Vtopia, Inc.
url: http://www.vtopia.com/
e-mail: jmackay@vtopia.com
You're right; the EntityDeclaration object needs the public and system
identifiers. It shall be proposed to the WG ...
It may also make sense to include an enum that
As I understand it, internal entities are expanded by an XML processor, so
the DOM never sees them. You're right about needing a Parsed/Unparsed
attribute; this was apparently discussed at last week's WG meeting.
Mike Champion
Understandable. But what if the DOM forms the core of the XML processor
implementation? It should be possible to reproduce an ENTIRE document,
not just an intermediate representation of a document. Consider the
following:
documentA - processor - DOM - generator - documentB
Assuming no limitations on the part of the processor or generator, documentA
and documentB, the DOM should not prevent documentA and documentB from being
identical.
Also, it might make sense to differentiate between general entities and
parameter
entities since there are significant differences in their behavior. I'm
talking about separate
interfaces, not just a "type" identifier.
Jeff Mackay
Vtopia, Inc.
url: http://www.vtopia.com/
e-mail: jmackay@vtopia.com
You're right; I've come to realize that I was extrapolating too far from
the DOM draft spec's statement on entity handling in core in my previous
reply. I'm speaking for myself since it's clear that this is not clearly
laid out in the spec, but from some informal consultations on this I think
it's clear that we need to a) clarify the relationship between DOM and the
XML processor and b)we need to put type information on the
EntityDeclaration object so that the DOM user can tell what it is and where
the declaration was found.
Thanks for your persistence in setting me straight here!
Mike Champion
