Given the majority views expressed at the Bristol f2f and subsequent
discussion on the WG list, I put forth to the WG the following
proposal for closure of rdfs-xml-schema-datatypes:
Concisely:
1. Literals are syntactically (and semantically) untidy
in the graph and literal nodes denote datatype values
(we choose test D in the unsent inquiry regarding
tidyness/untidyness).
2. rdfs:range is used for global datatyping of property values.
3. The only new vocabulary is rdfs:Datatype which is used
to identify RDF classes which denote datatypes, and we
use the XML Schema defined URIs to denote those datatypes.
4. There are only two idioms:
a) global/implicit
Jenny ex:age _:x"10" .
ex:age rdfs:range xsd:integer .
b) local/explicit
Bob ex:age _:y .
_:y xsd:integer _:z"10" .
[If literals are permitted to be subjects, then idiom 4(b)
is replaced with normal RDF typing:
b') local/explicit
Bob ex:age _:y"10" .
_:y rdf:type xsd:integer .
Note that if literals are not permitted to be subjects
now, but are permitted in RDF 2.0, then 4(b) above is
fully semantically analogous to, and anticipates 4(b')]
5. We adopt the above-used notation for denoting untidy literal
nodes in NTriples, where the original occurrence as object
includes a nodeID and the literal string, and (if permitted)
triples with the literal as subject include only the nodeID.
The above are to be taken as modifications/corrections to the
present datatyping WD.
I propose that the above be approved by the WG, incorporated
into the datatyping WD and published for review by the
RDF community as soon as possible, ideally by July 5th.
This will close the final open issue rdfs-xml-schema-datatypes and
put us well on the way towards meeting a last call for the
datatyping specification by Aug 26th.
I ask that the WG would vote on this proposal during today's
concall (June 28), and if adopted, reserve the bridge afterwards
for discussion by the datatyping editors and any other parties
regarding modification, completion, and publication of the WD.
Regards,
Patrick
I got this email on the morning of the 28th. This is a little short notice
to hold a vote.
Brian
how do those 3 cases look in RDF/XML?
Jos De Roo, AGFA http://www.agfa.com/w3c/jdroo/
or
RDF/XML does not presently support literals as subjects in the
serialization. I could suggest options, but will refrain.
Cheers,
Patrick
