Web Accessibility Subcommittee members--
Have any of you been following the latest thread on the accessibility
listserve? It is getting quite heated. It is in regards to the
burdensome nature of the W3C documentation.
The members have been bringing up some salient points that will affect
our education outreach efforts. I currently dread pointing people to the
W3C guidelines, as they are very intimidating to the uninitiated.
This checklist from the Section 508 site (
Accessibility Guidelines may differ from the legally-enforceable
standards that the Access Board will promulgate by February 7, 2000."
This reflects the decision of the Department of Justice to stray from
the W3C to some degree. Their decision may stem from legal sticking
points, but it reflects the movement that other groups are making toward
setting their own standards.
The more discussion I read on this issue, the more I think we need our
own guidelines, separate from the W3C.
Just my two cents. Any thoughts?
Regards,
MELINDA MORRIS-BLACK
Information Architect
Information Networks of Kansas
FON: (785) 296-5143
PCS: (785) 550-7345
melinda@ink.org
Melinda, I share your concerns myself -- I feel that the WCAG
is the -definitive- work but is not the best -introductory- work
on the topic. In fact, when I teach my online web accessibility
class (http://www.hwg.org/services/classes/catalog/d201.html), I
don't actually introduce the students to WCAG until week three of
the six week course.
In my opinion, there are two ways to go about this -- the wrong way
and the right way. These mainly differ in process and approach,
rather than in the actual end product.
THE WRONG WAY
The wrong way to do this is to set up "our own guidelines" as something
separate and distinct from the WAI guidelines -- as "something else"
with no relationship to the WCAG, or worse, as an "alternative" to
the WCAG.
There is a definite benefit to both the "cause" and the "community"
of having one clear, definitive document and message -- and that's
embodied in the WCAG. From a web designer's standpoint, if we are
all learning from the same curriculum and the same source material,
then our skills can be applied across many sites and many jobs.
If, on the other hand, the message is "fractured", and there are
a number of guidelines thought of as "competing" with each other,
this will "dillute the market" and "confuse the message", which can
lead to less understanding of what web accessibility is all about.
So, we'd obviously like it if everyone did this...
THE RIGHT WAY
The right way is to *use* the WCAG to build your own *implementation
plan* for web accessibility -- as I described yesterday in email
to this list. A web accessibility implementation plan should
*always* be based on the WCAG at the core (although you should, in
my opinion, -never- follow the WCAG's "de facto" single-A,
double-AA, triple-AAA plans).
For example, the HTML Writers Guild's accessibility standard is
entirely dependent upon the WCAG, and that's done on purpose. The
HWG has no desire to set up our own "guidelines", but rather to
establish for our internal use -how- we will use the existing
guidelines. Our depency on WCAG is clear -- see the policy at
HWG policy "rewrites" WCAG for our audience, rather than just
cutting-and-pasting.)
HOW THE WAI CAN HELP
The Web Accessibility Initiative -- through the Education and
Outreach working group -- needs to actively encourage the use of
the WCAG in exactly this way: As the base building blocks that
are used to produce web accessibility implementation plans which
are appropriate for the organization or company in question.
To that means, the E&amp;O should consider drafting a document that
lays out the steps necessary to construct such a plan (and yes,
I'm willing to do the work on this -- and can we draft someone
from IBM/SNS who worked on theirs?), and also consider linking
to any known implementation plans which are based on the WCAG.
THE INTERNAL CHALLENGE
The big problem for us in the WAI will be when we actually have
to confront the fact that we're going to say "it's okay to
ignore certain parts of the WCAG." But ultimately, that bitter
taste is one we'll have to try soon enough, because any practical
implementation of WAI guidelines will have to make that kind of
decision.
Rather than leaving it up to the individual implementors to make
that decision (or simply trusting in the blind faith approach of
the inadequate single-A, double-AA, triple-AAA conformance levels
which do NOT work in the real world), the WAI E&amp;O working group
should be providing technical policy makers with the information
and tools they need in order to set a reasonable and implementable
goal for increasing the accessibility of their sites.
--Kynn
Kynn Bartlett kynn@idyllmtn.com
WAI Interest Group:
A few thoughts in response to this thread and other recent threads on the
WAI Interest Group list.
1. Awareness:
WAI is aware that for some purposes the Web Content Accessibility
Guidelines are not the easiest starting point for making a Web page
accessible; for other purposes, though, we hear that they are excellent,
exactly what is needed, the best reference, etc. Given that there are
different needs for different audiences, WAI is addressing this in several
ways, through work in two of our groups, described below.
2. Easier implementation resources:
In the Education &amp; Outreach Working Group (EOWG), we are developing a
variety of materials that can help meet different needs. Things that
already exist include the "Quick Tips"
http://www.w3.org/WAI/References/QuickTips ; the "Getting Started: Making
a Web Site Accessible" page http://www.w3.org/WAI/gettingstarted , and the
"Curriculum for Web Content Accessibility Guidelines"
http://www.w3.org/WAI/wcag-curric . (Many people find the companion
checklist http://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG/full-checklist for the guidelines the
most useful reference piece, given that it is organized by priorities and
features.)
We know those aren't enough, so we are working on other supporting
resources and will add ones beyond that. Additional easy intros that the
EOWG is working on now include a gallery of accessible Web sites;
eventually some simple templates of accessible sites; and we've considered
things like sample implementation approaches for different settings, for
instance universities, agencies, and corporations. From recent discussion
it sounds like there would be interest in those latter kinds of resources.
This group will be rechartering soon, including an emphasis on these
issues, and issuing a new call for participation; generally, the more hands
&amp; the more perspectives, the more good resources can get developed which
are then available for the whole community to use.
3. Evolving the guidelines to meet more/different needs:
The Web Content Accessibility Guidelines Working Group (WCAG WG) is also
aware of this need for simpler ways of using the guidelines. They renewed
their W3C charter and issued a call for participation in January, 2000
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ig/2000JanMar/0224.html .
Information on how to join the group is at
http://www.w3.org/WAI/GL/howto-join-wg.html and people are very welcome
to join.
It's important for people interested in usability &amp; simplicity issues to
join the group, while realizing that it's a consensus environment where
it's also important to address the need for sometimes more complex
information needed for some purposes. It can sometimes take extensive
dialog to arrive at solutions which can meet different kinds of needs, but
that is what the W3C/WAI working group process is for -- to get
representatives from different communities including industry, disability,
access research and government developing solutions together.
For people who can't make the commitment to participate in that dialog
fully, the WCAG WG mailing list w3c-wai-gl@w3.org is still the best place
to send their comments and suggestions about the guidelines for
consideration. They may also want to be sure to comment on the next
"requirements document" (this is a statement of what should be in an
advanced/next version of WCAG) which the WCAG WG will send to the WAI
Interest Group list for review &amp; comment soon. (If you want to see
work-in-progress before it is sent to the WAI IG list for review, visit the
WCAG WG home page at http://www.w3.org/WAI/GL .) It would help quite a lot
if even more people would review &amp; comment on draft WAI documents carefully
and frequently when they are in draft stage, as _all_ of these perspectives
raise the quality and usability of the final documents.
4. Problems with proliferation of guidelines:
Proliferation of different guidelines can make accessibility harder to
achieve. If Web designers need to design to a different set of requirements
each time they change customers, it increases the time they spend figuring
out how to design each site. In addition, people developing software
implementations that support the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines -- in
browsers, multimedia players, Web site authoring software, and
accessibility checkers and retrofitting tools -- won't have as clear a set
of requirements to coordinate with. We are currently encouraged by progress
around the Authoring Tool Accessibility Guidelines (ATAG)-- implementations
of ATAG in mainstream software are underway and will help automate the
production of accessible Web sites -- and the User Agent Accessibility
Guidelines, implementations of which will help browsers, multimedia players
and assistive technologies to be more accessible.
It may make sense to develop customized deployment approaches for different
settings, as has been suggested on this list, and that is something that
the EOWG will be looking at. But instead of developing different
guidelines, I would encourage collaboration in making sure that W3C/WAI
guidelines and resources can better reflect the ease-of-use concerns that
have been raised in various settings, so as to over time be able to have a
consistent core of accessible design recommendations, with a variety of
supporting resources appropriate to different audiences.
Regards,
- Judy
Judy Brewer jbrewer@w3.org +1.617.258.9741 http://www.w3.org/WAI
Director,Web Accessibility Initiative(WAI), World Wide Web Consortium(W3C)
WAI Interest Group home page: http://www.w3.org/WAI/IG
Previous WAI IG Updates: http://www.w3.org/WAI/IG/Overview.html#Updates
Unsubscribe? Send "unsubscribe" subject line: w3c-wai-ig-request@w3.org
Questions? http://www.w3.org/WAI/IG/Overview.html#Uselist or wai@w3.org
