Hi,
I?d like to know what?s your opinion about using 'cursor: hand'. The 'hand' value is not a css standard but is the one understood by IE 5.x browsers.
I find it usefull, specially with submit buttons which don?t show the hand icon by default over them in those browsers. Using cursor: hand you can make the submits look much more like the image buttons, which are less accessible but more frecuently used.
However, it?s a handicap to validate the stylesheet.
Cheers.
Pablo Enr?quez.
While cursor: hand is not valid, it is valid (in CSS2) to use a URI to point to a cursor resource, so you can use cursor : url("hand.cur"), and even provide a list so the user agent can pick the one it can handle (just as with font families). Why use invalid code when valid code can accomplish the same thing?
Cheers,
Marjolein Katsma
HomeSite Help - http://hshelp.com/ - Extensions, Tips and Tools
The Bookstore - http://books.hshelp.com/ - Books for webmasters and webrookies
You are assuming a particular browser's user interface conventions.
Also, although I don't have Windows up at the moment, to check it out,
I have a suspicion that cursor used for submit buttons is the correct
one for the Windows user interface guidelines, so it is the image map
input elements used as buttons that should be adjusted.
I suspect the difference is the result of IE treating image mapped
input elements as image mapped, even though nearly everyone ignores
the coordinates.
I had a look. Hand is the link icon, i.e. it represents a noun type
function. Really it is a finger pointing. IE uses arrow for its own
buttons (verb like function), and so do other Windows applications,
so image map input elements used as buttons really use arrow, rather
than the other way round.
Actually, I suspect you are not talking about image map input elements,
but about images in anchors, and, because they are being treated as
links, not commands, that is why they get a link feedback.
Unfortunately there is no backwards compatiblity soluton for button
elements.
Whilst cursor:hand isn't supported by other browsers, cursor:pointer is supported by IE 5.x, Mozilla, Opera and Safari, and is amongst the W3C's own standardised attribute values: http://www.w3.org/TR/CSS2/ui.html#propdef-cursor. This should present the same cursor that the browser uses for standard links; in most cases a hand.
~B
---------------------------Disclaimer---------------------------
Unless obviously public, this email is confidential to the intended recipient(s). If you received it in error please tell the sender and then delete it. We check emails from dyslexic.com and iansyst.co.uk, but you should virus check incoming emails. Emails do not always represent our official policy or a contract. Errors and omissions are excepted.
