* Lexical phrases which can be used to present a given concept in a given language
and context or to search for it, but which may suffer from ambiguity which must be
resolved . I would call these "terms". There is a many-many relation between "terms"
and "concept identifiers". "Terms" are mostly of interest to end users.
Agreed - that goes along the lines of what topic maps do. What you call "concept" is (a
subclass of) what topic maps call "subject". If this subject (concept) is represented by a
topic, the corresponding "terms" will be called in topic maps "baseNames". Many
"baseNames" can be attached to one topic - to be used in various scopes.
* The names of concepts which may be multiple but must refer to a unique concept
identifier. I would call these "concept names". There is a many-one relation between
concept names and concept identifiers. Concept names are mostly of interest to knowledge
engineers. Allowing more than one is a programming convenience and helps in multilingual
applications.
* The identifiers of concepts which should be globally unique and unambiguous. I
presume it will ultimately be qualified URIs within namespaces in the RDF concrete syntax.
I would call these "concept identifiers"
There is no way (and certainly no need) to try and get such a thing as a "globally unique
and ambiguous" (absolute) identifier of a concept. But there can be one or more available
reference definition(s) each one *according to some publisher*, and each one identified by
an URI declared and maintained by this same publisher. That will be used to assert that I
use this term (baseName) to name that concept (subject, topic) as identified by that
publisher under that URI. That's the best disambiguation one can hope to get. And again,
that's what PSIs are all about.
Bernard Vatant
Chair - OASIS TM PubSubj Technical Committee
www.oasis-open.org/committees/tm-pubsubj/
Alan,
Part of the problem is that despite the medical community having reached
some consensus on terminology, there is much less consensus in other
communities interested in ontologies. Another problem, is that the Web
community has developed its own terminology. Finding a terminology that
makes everyone happy is unlikely.
When we use "term," we refer to any element in the ontology's
vocabulary. This includes class names and property names (elsewhere
called relations or slots). Thus, we are using it in the same sense that
Ontolingua uses non-logical symbol, but since this document is meant for
a wider audience than the logical community, we chose to avoid that
term. Since concepts traditionally only refer to classes, it would be
inappropriate to use that as well.
The use of "label" comes from RDF Schema, where it is a "human-readable
version of a resource name." In this sense, it is more like the
linguistic phrases you describe. RDF Schema even suggests that a "label"
can be used with a "xml:lang" attribute to identify a language for the
label, although there are some questions as to whether this really works
the way it was intended. There is no requirement that a label be
associated with a unique term. As you say, there is ambiguity in lexical
representation, and due to polysemy, the same label may be used with
different meanings. If someone wishes to use them in search, then they
would have to provide a method for resolving the ambiguity.
As for your suggestions about concept names and concept identifiers, I
don't believe Web Ontologies can make the same distinction. Due to the
distributed nature of the Web, I don't believe you could say that there
is a single unique identifer for every concept. How could you enforce
such a thing? Instead every term (our usage) has a URI. Some of these
URIs may refer to the same concept. In this case, an equivalence can be
established between these URIs (see the class and property equivalence
requirement), achieving the same effect as having multiple concept names
for the same identifier.
I do agree with you that there needs to be a distinction between the
conceptual and the language layer, and will encourage the working group
to examine the references you mention when it focuses on the problem of
internationalization. Your comments also suggest that the requirements
document could do a better job of defining the terminology it uses.
Although we may not use the terminology you recommend, this would at
least help you and others to translate it into your own terminology.
Thanks for your comments.
Jeff
