I have no idea if that will be a consistent URL, but today at
least it's on the front page of http://www.builder.com/ and
is dated July 20, 1999, by Amy Cowen. It references the WCAG
and gives specific examples regarding implementation in HTML.
As usual for CNet, however, it's very much "do as I say, not
as I do", to the point of having missing or blank ALT text...
sigh. Well, at least people will get the message if they
read the article, even if it's dilluted by the mixed message
of CNet telling us (through example) that accessibility is
obviously NOT important...
Kynn Bartlett kynn@idyllmtn.com http://www.kynn.com/
Chief Technologist, Idyll Mountain Internet http://www.idyllmtn.com/
Catch the Web Accessibility Meme! http://aware.hwg.org/
Next Online Course starts August 2 http://www.kynn.com/+nextclass
"Pissing off comic book fans isn't a business problem, it's a sport." -NK
There's an alternative to that long URL Kynn Bartlett found:
You can also use http://www.builder.com/Authoring/Accessibility
which looks like a more stable sort of URL.
Thanks for the news Kynn!
Len
Leonard R. Kasday, Ph.D.
Universal Design Engineer, Institute on Disabilities/UAP, and
Adjunct Professor, Electrical Engineering
Temple University
Ritter Hall Annex, Room 423, Philadelphia, PA 19122
kasday@acm.org
(215} 204-2247 (voice)
(800) 750-7428 (TTY)
Yesterday I received an unsolicited copy of Bank Technology News International - it's a glossy
tabloid-style bimonthly publication aimed at international bankers (which I'm not!).
The front page featured an article entitled "Web Banking for the Visually Impaired". It described
how a blind computer programmer in Brazil is working on developing an Internet-banking program for
the blind at the Nanco Bradesco. The article continued inside (for a full page) with details of the
technologies available (mainly PC-based). The article contained a sidebar which described W3C's Web
Content Accessibility Guidelines, and had a quote from Tim Berners-Lee.
The newspaper's website is available at:
although I couldn't find the article. As Kynn pointed out for the Builder.com article, this web
site is not accessible :-(
Brian
Brian Kelly, UK Web Focus
UKOLN, University of Bath, BATH, England, BA2 7AY
Homepage: http://www.ukoln.ac.uk/ukoln/staff/b.kelly.html
Hello Brian
You can find information of Bradesco Net - Internet Banking for
the Visually Impaired at
VIRTUAL VISION MAKES ACCESSIBLE INTERNET BANKING FOR VISUAL IMPAIRED
By Francisco Antonio Soeltl
President, MicroPower, Brazil
The Brazilian company MicroPower has developed the software Virtual Vision
(VV) is a screen-reader that is inside of Bradesco Net - Internet Banking
for
the Visually Impaired. Bradesco is one of the largest banks of Brazil. The
product, that currently works for Windows 98 and Office 97, offers good
access through internet with IE 3.02. Tests of IE5 are being finalized and
soon, it will be launched the version 2.0.
This product was indicated by Microsoft for the Smithsonian Award, and it
was
mentioned by Bill Gates in his last book. The MicroPower team was recently
in
Seattle, presenting Virtual Vision for Steve Ballmer, current president of
Microsoft. Also recent it was the visit of the Managers of Bradesco Bank to
Washington DC, to present the details of the product for the Smithsonian
Institute.
The development team of Virtual Vision is working directly with the Director
of Accessibility of Microsoft to solve the problems that eventually appear
and to implement the solutions.
Virtual Vision uses the first synthesizer of high quality in Portuguese
language, called DeltaTalk, also developed by MicroPower. It is adapted for
the Brazilian and Portuguese keyboards. The product can be acquired in
fontes@ip.pt .
For more information in Brazil, send your email for
micropower@micropower.com.br , C/O- Mr. Mauricio. Communications available
also in Spanish and English.
[end of the article]
There is other article "Microsoft Technology Aids Brazil's Visually
Impaired"
at Microsoft/enable website:
Regards
Francisco Godinho
PASIG - Portuguese Accessibility Special Interest Group
International - it's a glossy
I'm not!).
Impaired". It described
Internet-banking program for
page) with details of the
which described W3C's Web
Builder.com article, this web
