While I'm on this topic, I have another concern wrt XML access that I
want to write down shortly.
Supposedly, XML user-agents might not need access to the document DTD
to process it: it's ok if the document is well formed and that a style
sheet is available (using an inclusion clause of some kind).
My issue is related to the use of client-side style sheet, which I
think is crucial for accessibility.
How does a user-agent bind an arbitrary XML document to an independant
style sheet without knowledge of the DTD ?
We must make sure that at least the DTD name (as a unique ID of some
kind) appear in every XML documents, so that client-side binding to a
local "more accessible" style is always possible.
It's unclear to me reading the XML spec that this is the case in the
definition of what "well formed" or "valid" means.
See http://www.ucc.ie/xml/#FAQ-VALIDWF
There is also a lot more there.
e-mail dpawson@rnib.org.uk
There is a convention using processing elements.
Many xml files won't have DTD's, so you can't rely on this.
Regards,
-- Dave Raggett dsr@w3.org http://www.w3.org/People/Raggett
World Wide Web Consortium (on assignment from HP Labs)
That's not the _user-agent_ doing the binding in this case, it's the
author of the document.
That's too bad and probably something we should discuss further with
the XML community, because no DTD pointer mean no way to adapt the
presentation on the user-agent side (independently of the author).
Right. In particular, an XML document instance might use tags from two
or more different DTDs, using namespaces to keep the semantics separate.
So, this is specifically a CSS issue? Other stylesheet languages do not
support the notion of a client-side (reader) stylesheet (since they don't
support cascading).
Or more generaly, without knowledge of the tag names (given in the DTD or
other schema) and their semantics (not given in the DTD).
It is not the case. Many XML documents will neither have reference to
a DTD nor will they conform to any one in particular.
Chris Lilley, W3C [ http://www.w3.org/ ]
Graphics and Fonts Guy The World Wide Web Consortium
chris@w3.org 2004 Rt des Lucioles / BP 93
to follow up on what Daniel Dardailler said:
The connection must be available to the client. It could be
provided outside the individual XML file in site-wide metadata
that says 'In the absense of an explicit indication, you may
assume that pages [in this realm] conform at least to DTD="URI".'
It is quite likely that semantic completeness such as we need
will not be the law of the XML land unless we explain it to
somebody.
-- Al
I've opened the issue in more details with the HTML-CG yesterday (with
the intent to discuss it at yesterday evening HTML CG call but that
didn't happen as Jon Bosak hadn't had a chance to read it).
Thread at:
