Make sure the ALT-attribut for HTML 4.0 and beyond will be used
for an ALTernate description of an object both in old elements
(like IMG) and new ones (like OBJECT).
Let other objectives use specific attributes (see "tool tip" remarks
earlier).
Best regards,
Jaap
Message from: Jaap van Lelieveld The Netherlands
Chairman of EBU commission on Technical Devices and Services
E-mail: Jaap.van.Lelieveld@inter.nl.net
USING: YARN V0.92 as an offline reader, and
UQWK / OLMENU under UNIX for mail and news transfer
to follow up on what jaap van lelieveld said:
I want to know what this means for the HTML specification. In the
DTD we have comments as follows (clipped from most recent public
draft):
Objects, Images, and Applets in HTML documents (p4 of 48)
14.1 Including an image: the IMG element
!-- To avoid problems with text-only UAs you need to provide
a description with ALT, and avoid server-side image maps --
!ATTLIST IMG
%attrs; -- %coreattrs, %i18n, %events --
src %URL; #REQUIRED -- URL of image to embed --
alt CDATA #REQUIRED -- short description --
longdesc %URL; #IMPLIED -- link to long description --
align %IAlign; #IMPLIED -- vertical or horizontal alignment --
Is that what you want, or would it be better for the comments to say
"To avoid problems with non-visual UAs, provide a brief text
alternative for the image via ALT, and avoid server-side image
maps."
and
alt CDATA #REQUIRED -- text alternative to image --
respectively?
-- Al Gilman
The OBJECT element doesn't include an alt attribute since
the content of the OBJECT element is used as the fallback.
This allows for rich text descriptions to be given in place
including regular HTML elements such as paragraphs, lists
and hypertext links. The title attribute can be used for
a one-liner description of the OBJECT and would normally
be used on gui's as a tooltip for the object.
Regards,
-- Dave Raggett dsr@w3.org http://www.w3.org/People/Raggett
World Wide Web Consortium (on assignment from HP Labs)
I'd be more explicit: substitute for "for"
"describing the information conveyed by"
Agree: but how about -- text alternative describing image --
Interesting. With your two edits, you have succeeded in bracketing
where I would draw a line.
to follow up on what Harvey Bingham said:
[quoted twice is me
[quoted once is Harvey
In other words, "To avoid problems with non-visual UAs, provide a
brief text alternative describing the information conveyed by the
image via ALT, and avoid server-side image..."
That one is OK, if not entirely an improvement.
I would not be happy with that one.
The classic example of the icon in the software manual
illustrates the difference. "Exclamation point in triangle (in
red)" describes the image. "Warning! " captures the information
conveyed.
For images whose function is primarily symbolic (they allude to a
concept) a verbal expression of the same concept is to be
preferred to a verbal description of the visual expression of the
concept.
IMG is too broad in its range of application for one to know from
just the IMG element type if it should have a description or an
equivalent in its ALT string.
Over the long haul maybe we could look at defining elements
which are more specific concerning the role of the image.
For now, we still need Gregg's CASE statement in the guidelines.
As I see it.
-- Al Gilman
Somewhere in here I think we need to differentiate the nature of ALT and LONGDESC.
We sometimes say things like
ALT = Short Description
LONGDESC = Long Description
I think ALT is a little different. It is supposed to describe the FUNCTION. While LongDesc is more of a description of the appearance.
Maybe we should say
ALT = short description of the FUNCTION
LONGDESC = (long) description of the IMAGE
For example a bullet shaped like an arrow would have alt text "bullet" not "yellow arrow pointing right"
An Image button for search would say "search" Not "Magnifying Glass with Search on it" or "magnifying glass"
What you think? How do we convey this idea. Even more important in light of discussions about tool tips etc.
Gregg
For the most part, Gregg Vanderheiden's summary captures precisely the
distinction between the respective purposes of ALT and LONGDESC. There
will probably be exceptions to such generalisations however. For instance,
in a previous discussion of this topic, Al pointed out the difference
between a third party description of an image, which is to a significant
degree independent of its function in the document, and a description
supplied by the author of the page, which may be more concise and relevant
to the intended purpose of the graphic.
I would tend to prefer functional descriptions. Unnecessarily detailed
accounts of visual appearance are generally not useful, and in most cases
it should be possible to taylor the description ;to the purpose of the
image. Essentially, what is needed ;is a ;textual substitute ;for the
;graphical resource.
The HTML specification does not provide an appropriate context in which to
engage in a detailed treatment of this distinction; but it should be
discussed in the markup guidelines.
Gregg Vanderheiden's formulation is the best that I have read so far.
