[sorry for overposting]
I think Sean's shrill approach is abrasive to many but he's concerned -
and if not rightly so, then nothing's lost by abiding the cautions he
raises. If he (and others of us) is right then maybe if he's to tone down
his "alarums" we might tone down the sarcasm about "saint Tim", etc.
We are all in this together.
My thanks to Mr. Loughborough to pointing that out. Yes my tone is grating
and annoying sometimes, but that is purely unintentional. In real life I am
very reserved, would you believe.
[BTW: I presume we are talking about Anne as the school tecaher in Virginia.
Actually I went to her homepage to try to break the ice a little, and found
out much to my amazement that her husband shares his name with the chair of
the HTML WG. What a coincedence!]
Kindest Regards,
Sean B. Palmer
"Perhaps, but let's not get bogged down in semantics."
- Homer J. Simpson, BABF07.
Sean, it is not uncommon for quiet people to "let loose" when they get on
the Internet. After you realize that you are talking to other people with
interests in common and different from yours, who are all working for a
common goal, you may re-find some of your "reserve".
Hmmmm.....don't forget, I actually didn't intend to be insulting, but do
realize my "writing style" is a bit odd. Often I imply things that are
undetectable in plain text, but probably would be if I said them. You have
to read "between the lines" as it were.
I realise that we are all working towards a common goal:-
"To promote usability &amp; accessibility on the WWW".
And I suppose if the underlying tone of my messages was to use "competition"
rather than "cooperation" to achieve these goals, then that was incorrect.
However, I do believe in standing for what one believes in, and persuing
goals to the end (but I'm not going to do that if it menas annoying people
and losing friends for no reason whatsoever along the way).
We have *all* been sarcastic/annoting/insulting at some point or another:-
Sean:
"If you're not able to create styles independant of markup, I suggest that
is because you have spent too long following anachronous, limited, and
blatantly illegal Web programming habits" (unintentional sarcasm)
Anne:
"Nice to know I'm not quite so unknowledgable as Sean makes me out to be!"
(a direct parry to something I didn't intend and had already apologized for)
Kynn:
"Yes, but that and a nickel will buy you a cup of coffee. [...]" (probably
unintentional)
""DC"? District of Columbia? Direct Current? [...]" (see above)
"Yes, yes, the holy books. I am glad you have found your religion. I'm
going to go back to working on making the web work, though; thanks for the
stimulating discussion! [...]" (purely patronizing and sarcastic: I could
demand an apology)
"You mean Saint Tim Berners-Lee." (see above)
And I suggest we forget this discussion (the bad parts of it) ever occurred,
and go back to discussing how we can change the world for the better using
cooperative methods.
Virginia.
Good idea, Sean. My current web project is at
page.
Yes, I've seen that page before (you mailed the URI to me).
It is a "working document", in that it is updated with new links on a
regular basis (William, I've connected something to all the "vaporpix" but
one, the one for the Christmas holidays, and I haven't done the searchs
for
that one yet. It may end up being three links instead of one.)
Don't forget "Tet" and "Ramadan"...
Kindest Regards,
Sean B. Palmer
"Perhaps, but let's not get bogged down in semantics."
- Homer J. Simpson, BABF07.
Sean, it is not uncommon for quiet people to "let loose" when they get on
the Internet. After you realize that you are talking to other people with
interests in common and different from yours, who are all working for a
common goal, you may re-find some of your "reserve".
Good idea, Sean. My current web project is at
page.
It is a "working document", in that it is updated with new links on a
regular basis (William, I've connected something to all the "vaporpix" but
one, the one for the Christmas holidays, and I haven't done the searchs for
that one yet. It may end up being three links instead of one.)
Anne L. Pemberton
apembert@crosslink.net
Enabling Support Foundation
