Accidentally caught by the spam filter.
- Jim
-----Urspr?ngliche Nachricht-----
Von: Philipp Schreiber [mailto:schreiber@massive.de]
Gesendet: Montag, 25. Februar 2002 13:13
An: 'gstein@lyra.org'
Betreff: Features of WEBDAV
Hallo,
In your FAQ's on webdav.org I found the question "Which features are
complete, etc". In your answer you write about "Versioning and
Configuration Management" that this work "...is expected to be complete
in late 2000". Now we have Feb 2002 and I cannot find any information
about the state of development. Can you give me some information about
the state of development of "Advanced Collections", "Versioning and
Configuration Management" and "Access Control"?
Thank you.
With greetings from Germany,
Philipp Schreiber
Philipp Schreiber, Level Designer
phone : +49 (621) 33 864 21
Massive Development GmbH
Joseph-Meyer-Str. 13-15
68167 Mannheim / Germany
Hi Philipp,
Good questions -- it has been awhile since a status report has been made to
the WebDAV WG.
In brief:
DeltaV specification: it has been approved by the IESG, and is awaiting
publication as an RFC. I expect this to happen sometime in March -- I'm a
bit surprised the RFC hasn't been issued yet, but it is rather long.
Access control specification: it has passed a WG last call for comments, but
several substantive pieces of feedback have been received since this time.
There will be at least one more draft of the ACL specification, and at least
one more WG last call, before it is sent along for approval by the IESG.
This will probably be completed sometime in early summer 2002.
Advanced collections work is currently on hold. After ACLs, the next major
piece of work will be completing the DASL specification. DASL is looking
like it will be finished in late 2002.
Hope this helps,
- Jim
Maybe :-)
It would certainly help if there would be more feedback on the DASL mailing
list [1]. The current SEARCH draft has been updated a few minutes ago [2].
[1] mailto:www-webdav-dasl@w3.org
[2]
http://www.greenbytes.de/tech/webdav/draft-reschke-webdav-search-latest.htm
l
