Dear colleagues,
My Q&amp;A for this week is directly at
Comments welcome.
Regards, Martin.
Hi Martin,
Thanks for putting this up. Just a few ideas from a quick initial
reading. I'll look at it again later.
-I'm beginning to think we should standardise on (X)HTML rather
than X/HTML, which could be in some contexts be interpreted as XML/HTML.
-maybe "as the page where the form was on." - "as the page
containing the form."
-I think it may be good to more clearly state that you start by
using uft-8 for the encoding of your page. I know that's there in the
logic, but as these are educational pages I think it will be good to
state it fairly obviously.
-Instead of "There are various ways to do this, all  described
here  " , I'd prefer "There are  various ways to do this.  - helps the
person scanning find the info better.
-"it is important that the browser gets told that the form page
is in UTF-8" - "it is important to tell the browser that the form page
is in UTF-8"
-the 'second' part begs the questions: [1] why wouldn't it be in
utf-8, if you'd specified that for the page, [2] what do I do if it
isn't utf-8 or correctly formed utf-8?
-the version info is incorrect for some reason
-the page is not served as UTF-8 ! Oops, perhaps we should have
run your Perl script on it ;-) On a more serious note, perhaps we could
change the default encoding for pages in the geo directory so that they
are utf-8 unless otherwise specified. Do you know how to do that?
Hth,
RI
Richard Ishida
W3C
Comments welcome.
Regards, Martin.
about http://www.w3.org/International/questions/qa-forms-utf-8.html
(please keep the link in at the top, it's much easier for others
to look at it this way).
fixed, probably worth asking Masayasu.
done
I'm not sure exactly what you mean. Please feel free to just
edit it in.
done
done
done
Amaya cut the line. I fixed it, but it may happen again.
Maybe less info would be more.
Very much so. And the earlier the better
(it's called 'eating our own dog food' :-).
You have to know that. See e.g. the .htaccess file in /International/ws
Regards, Martin.
