I wonder if the guidelines work should include an update to that resource,
originally produced by EO? Or should it be an EO work item?
I presume the right time to produce this is after it becomes a recommendation.
Regards/Harvey
The quicktips are not dependent on the guidelines unless there is something
in them which the guidelines no longer recommend. So they can be updaqted
independently.
I believe that EO still has responsibility for them, and are the right group.
But I do think that any revision must be checked by the WCAG group for
technical accuracy.
cheers
Chaals
I wonder if the guidelines work should include an update to that resource,
originally produced by EO? Or should it be an EO work item?
I presume the right time to produce this is after it becomes a recommendation.
Regards/Harvey
Location: 21 Mitchell street FOOTSCRAY Vic 3011, Australia
(or W3C INRIA, Route des Lucioles, BP 93, 06902 Sophia Antipolis Cedex, France)
recommendation.
While I believe that the quick tips will always conceptually address the
issues in any WCAG document for the foreseeable future, I think there may be
a time around the later stages of the document (say, in Candidate or
Proposed Rec) that we and EO get together and discuss perhaps reordering
them. The WCAG 2 document doesn't substantially differ from anything in the
Quick Tips, but it has moved to a structure (Perceivable, Comprehensible,
etc.) that could translate well into Quick Tips.
That is to say, maybe the content of the Quick Tips itself doesn't need to
be changed, but the way it's organized could be modified to harmonize better
with WCAG 2.
m
TO:hbingham@acm.org,mcmay@bestkungfu.com,w3c-wai-eo@w3.org,w3c-wai-gl@w3.org
I think this is a good idea - perhaps the Quick Tips could be used to
explain these categories (perceivable, comprehensible etc) as general
concepts. Maybe we could pick out one checkpoint from each that best
represents the category.
Gian
From: mcmay [mailto:mcmay@bestkungfu.com]
Sent: Sunday, 9 June 2002 12:29 AM
Subject: Re: WAI Quick Tips Update for WCAG 2.0
----- Original Message -----
From: "Harvey Bingham" hbingham@acm.org
