On the subject of fragment IDs, there seems to be some confusion.
There are two kinds of fragments.
One is a standalone part of a larger document, where only the fragment
is served. That isn't the web fragment, though. The other is a named
part of a document, where you have the whole document, and want to go
to a particular region (surrounded in HTML with A NAME=xxx .... /X ).
Please don't confuse them.
SGML Open fragments are nothing whatsoever to do with the # kind of fragments.
I'll call them chunks for now.
In a web world, you are supposed to do SGML Open chunks by giving each
chunk its own URL, just as DynaWeb (there! I spelt it right!) does.
Since # is for something different than chunks, it doesn't have to solve
the chunk requirements, and therefore the fact that the #stuff doesn't
get sent to the server turns out not to be a problem.
Lee
Which seems to have roots in the terminology.
Or two things named "fragments".
That is fragment as I usually think of it. A separable piece of a
whole.
That is a named location with an element to anchor the locator. Call it
a
fragment if you like, but that isn't what one usually thinks of as a
fragment in SGML. Thats a position to scroll to.
Sounds like it got confused in the W3C HTML WG.
How does that work? IOW, what gets returned? The document, or the
fragment/chunk/frame?
Are you suggesting a different URL convention for the SGML fragment?
Again, what gets returned?
len
Please don't do this! Let's not add confusion by trying to rename
something that's had a perfectly good name for some time now.
What TR9601 deals with are fragments, let's not try to start calling
them chunks now.
It seems to me that, of the two uses of the word "fragment," the one
referring to a named region of the document is misnamed. How about
"named region"?
Like it or not, the name of the "#foo" thing at the end
of a URL is called a "fragment identifier". There is
really nothing wrong with the name, as it is an identifier
for a fragment within an HTML document.
You can futz about with names all you like. The fragment
identifier is entrenched in Web-speak. There is no getting
around that. Trying to rename it will only create confusion
for the large base of HTML users.
Just my humble opinion,
Murray
From w3.org!w3c-sgml-wg-request Tue Mar 18 15:46:25 1997
Return-Path: w3c-sgml-wg-request@w3.org
Received: from gatekeeper.sq.com by sqarc.sq.com with smtp
Well, note that HTML fragments have been so named since 1989 or so,
and the name is in use by hundreds of thousands (millions?) of people.
I used the term "chunks" only within that message, to tryand disambiguate.
You could tak about Word Wide Web Fragments to mean the normal usage,
and SGML Open fragments for the other normal usage, I suppose.
I'm more concerneed that people understand that they're different, and
that the # mechanism in use on the Web today is for addressing WWW fragments.
There is another proposed standard for retrieving only a portion of
a document from a remote server, but you're not going to like that name
either -- it's XML, from Adobe and Verity!
Lee
