(moving to www-archive)
The contents of the 'rel' attribute is declared as %LinkTypes;, a
space-separated list of XML Names; a URI won't do here.
I found it interesting that this definition was not in HTML4. Why did it
change in XHTML 1.1? Could you put it back? ;-)
[ Aaron Swartz | me@aaronsw.com | http://www.aaronsw.com ]
The contents of the 'rel' attribute is declared as %LinkTypes;, a
space-separated list of XML Names; a URI won't do here.
The use of CDATA for %LinkTypes; was only an oversight, in that had the
original designer thought to use NMTOKENS, this would have been more
appropriate in the DTD. The design in the HTML 4 specification of link
types is a list of tokens, not a list of URIs, so XHTML is merely a
correction in this sense. You can find in the HTML 4 specification that
the intention is explicitly tokens:
And can *I* fix it? Heh. I alone can do little. XHTML is merely (as much
as is possible) a transformation of HTML into XML. We tried very hard (or
at least I did) to not reinvent HTML in the process. If markup abuse has
been happening (ie., people not using HTML according to the specification),
this is certainly nothing new. HTML is a bit of an Eve in this respect (no
relation to Eve Maler intended).
Murray
Murray Altheim mailto:altheim&amp;#x40;eng.sun.com
XML Technology Center
Sun Microsystems, Inc., MS MPK17-102, 1601 Willow Rd., Menlo Park, CA 94025
In the evening
The rice leaves in the garden
Rustle in the autumn wind
That blows through my reed hut. -- Minamoto no Tsunenobu
I do not see this. The spec says:
In the DTD, %LinkTypes refers to a space-separated list of link types.
White space characters are not permitted within link types.
Nowhere does it say they must be XML names. Since space characters are not
allowed in URIs, use of URIs seems reasonable. The only issue is that URIs
are case sensitive, whereas LinkTypes are not. However, this issue can be
overcome by proper behavior on the part of the URI provider.
Since this added NMTOKENS restriction is new, could it be considered an
error in the spec? I think it should be, since it severely restricts the use
of LinkTypes.
[ Aaron Swartz | me@aaronsw.com | http://www.aaronsw.com ]
Nownere? I'm sorry but you're quite wrong. What seems reasonable
to you isn't necessarily what the designers intended, or what
would seem reasonable to them. If you want to extend functionality
so radically, perhaps a redesign is in order, not a hack like this.
I think I've already answered this. I'm not sure how more clear I
can be.
I've been following HTML closely since 1993 and I've never seen a
specification that included the idea that %LinkTypes; was meant to
be a list of URIs. Perhaps nobody between 1991 and 1999 thought that
anyone would put a list of URIs into that attribute value, as they
would have specified it as such. HTML 2.0 used NAMES for %linkType;,
which is even more restrictive than NMTOKENS. HTML 3.2 described
link types still as tokens. The most that has been written on the
subject that I'm aware of is the IETF draft by Murray Maloney and
Liam Quin (draft-ietf-html-relrev-00.txt), which again uses name
tokens as examples. If HTML 4 had intended to include URIs as 'rel'
and 'rev' values, it would have specified the parameter entity
differently or mentioned this possibility in the specification.
If XHTML 1.0 had intended a list of URIs, it would have specified
it as %UriList;. The discussions I've had on this over the last
five years or so have always conceived of extensions to the list
of 'rel' and 'rev' values (which was left open for extension) as
new tokens, not new notations.
The prose and examples of every single specification of HTML uses
name tokens and not URIs. As far as I know (and I do have some
background here) the intention of the design has always been to
be name tokens. That someone wants to stuff a bunch of URIs in
there doesn't suprise me, but it's not part of the design. It is
not an error in the specification, only your desire to extend it.
Murray
Murray Altheim, SGML/XML Grease Monkey mailto:altheim@eng.sun.com
XML Technology Center
Sun Microsystems, 1601 Willow Rd., MS UMPK17-102, Menlo Park, CA 94025
america was once a paradise
of timberland and stream
but it is dying because of the greed
and money lust of a thousand little kings -- archy (1927)
Thank you for clearing up the history of this. I was unaware of this
information and that led to my confusion.
Many thanks.
[ Aaron Swartz | me@aaronsw.com | http://www.aaronsw.com ]
This isn't to say that a facility for specifying such information via
URL wouldn't be interesting or valuable. I hope to begin work on the
Dublin Core-in-XHTML project in the next week if possible (this week
is entirely tied up). This would be one possible way to approach this
problem, but whatever approach it will be a new invention and I
believe it should be thought through carefully, not an overloading
of existing syntax. In this way, software expectations will not be
confused and there will be an explicit functionality assumed from
the new syntax.
Murray
Murray Altheim, SGML/XML Grease Monkey mailto:altheim@eng.sun.com
XML Technology Center
Sun Microsystems, 1601 Willow Rd., MS UMPK17-102, Menlo Park, CA 94025
america was once a paradise
of timberland and stream
but it is dying because of the greed
and money lust of a thousand little kings -- archy (1927)
