What's an em?
(In summary: I still think there is a very good case for
correcting(!) the definition of 'em' for CSS (3). Note that
I also suggest adding new relative units 'line' and 'cap'.
Yes, TeX is *the* main reason for still wanting this.
Compatibility (as far as it can get) before divergence.)
An em was originally the width of an M (swashes don't count).
In some typographic traditions an em is still the width of an M.
In TeX an em is the width of an M.
In CSS an em is the "font-size", and relatively few use it as yet.
I haven't seen any good argument for keeping it "as is",
other than an unwillingness to correct a mistake and/or
to align with TeX. (Call it 'wem', or 'tem' if you like,
but then deprecate the current 'em'.)
Correcting the definition of an em to what it 1) usually
means (width of an M), and 2) what it means (width of an M)
in *the* other *major* electronic typesetting context (TeX)
should have little impact for most. If someone asks for a
line-height of 1em, then they should get what they ask for,
a line height the same as the width of an M, nothing else.
(Not a good thing to ask for, on the other hand. A
line-height of 2 em might be more reasonable. It's still
easy to change line-height 1em to line-height 2em, or even
better line-height 1line; see suggestion below.)
See also my other parallel message on "font-size".
In TrueType an em is undefined (it's up to each typeface designer
what it "is"). This *so called* "em" should be left as
something INTERNAL to a font, and should under not be
visible
to anyone not doing font design work on that font.
So Erik, please revive your proposal (and, originally, my) to define
an em the same way in CSS as it is in TeX (which does pick it up from
not only historical but also modern typography). I still think it would
be a very bad idea to have the two most major electronic typesetting
contexts to have different definitions of "em".
See also MathML, which uses "em", but picks up certain special
width space names from TeX:
&amp;Space; 0020 one em of space in the current font
&amp;NonBreakingSpace; 00A0 space that is not a legal breakpoint
&amp;ZeroWidthSpace; 200B space of no width at all
&amp;VeryThinSpace; 200A space of width 1/18 em
&amp;ThinSpace; 2009 space of width 3/18 em
&amp;MediumSpace; 2005 space of width 4/18 em
&amp;ThickSpace; E897 space of width 5/18 em
&amp;NegativeVeryThinSpace; E898 space of width -1/18 em
&amp;NegativeThinSpace; E899 space of width -3/18 em
&amp;NegativeMediumSpace; E89A space of width -4/18 em
&amp;NegativeThickSpace; E89B space of width -5/18 em
This is one very obvious contact point between the TeX world
and the "Web/CSS world". It is only confusing and non-productive
to define em in different ways among these two, let alone
(European??) typography, where an em is also still the width
of an M.
Note that this is not, and has never been, a suggestion
not to have some unit relating to the ?p-height
(?p-height) or similar for other scripts. If you don't
like the name ?p, then call it "line" (or whatever you like
better). Text set with 'line-height 1.5line' would then
mean what is usually meant with having 1 and a half line
spacing.
Kind regards
(still trying to get this "spec.d/done right")
/kent k
The proposal was definitely originally yours. I supported it for a
while, but I got tired swimming against the current.
Erik
-----Oorspronkelijk bericht-----
Van: Karlsson Kent - keka keka@im.se
Aan: www-style@w3.org www-style@w3.org
Datum: maandag 31 januari 2000 18:27
Onderwerp: What's an em (was RE: Units, font sizing, and zoom suggestion for CSS 3)
An Em is short for Em-square and it is the second part that describes
what it is: a square!
Jelle Bosma
Monotype
Karlsson Kent - keka wrote at 31/01/00 17:21
Sorry, I think that is (mostly) just a coincidence, an em is a square (ie
it has two dimensions, not one) and is defined by the *body* size of a
piece of movable type. It is scalable since it relates directly to the
size of type in question, an exception to this is that in general people
measuring by "ems" mean "pica ems" which are 12pt ems (though this
doesn't apply in the CSS model).
This makes no sense. In your argument the line height would have no
relationship whatsoever to the size of the type. Conceivably if one were
setting line height for a condensed face it would have to be set in
excess of 2.0em, on the other hand for an expanded face it could be as
little as 0.5em. In both cases the perceived line height would be the
same.
And how would you specify line-height when you mixed different width
fonts on a single line, this would happen even if you were setting common
combinations like bold and italic styles!?
The measurement of line-height or em size needs to be explicitly linked
to a typeface's size, not its width.
-- Clive
Dear fontfriends,
it appears that some people are getting distressed but all this font
talk. For the benefit of everyone, subscription specs are as follows:
* To unsubscribe send mail to www-font-request@w3.org with
'unsubscribe' as the subject.
* To subscribe send mail to www-font-request@w3.org with 'subscribe'
as the subject.
Hope this helps.
Monib
monib ; design &amp; typography
info@monib.com
www.monib.com
While TrueType does not explicitly state that the em is euqivalent to the
type size, that definition is implicit. TrueType allows the
designer/producer to set the number of units per em. This has the effect of
establishing the font's coordinate space, because the em is a constant
(while units are not).
There are many typesetting systems I've not had the priviledge(?) of
working with. But in more than twenty years, I've not come across any
system other than the old Monotype casters which defined an em as other
than the type size. I fail to see any advantages to doing so.
- David Lemon
