AG:: "First, leave no gratuitous barrier between the information and its
consumer."
WL: Now that's the level of abstraction that I think we should be pursuing
here. Although this "requires" a bunch of explanation, as a guiding
*principle* it might be hard to cap. It has nothing to do with not only the
Web but with media at all - even language!
AG:: "...the intrinsic structure of the information is graph-shaped, not
tree-shaped..."
WL: The characterization of the structure's shape is of interest but until
the fundamental of there being such a thing as "structure" reaches our
audience, it mattereth little if we think of ovals and arrows or some other
realization. The problem we face is that authors and their tools are
besieged by retinal conceit. Too many aren't even aware that the tasks they
use their eyes for could readily be made available to machines (and
incidentally blind folks) through the use of some not-too-tedious
constructs. It just has to be put into what they think of as "English" (or
"French" or whatever) so that they "get it". Most of us are totally clueless
as to how this is done and often even demean such efforts. I've tried to do
it but without much success and it may be that the ability to participate in
all these "inner workings" precludes the particular communication skills
needed to write in less-polysallabic terms. Al's shot at de-mystifying the
thing about "navigable, hierarchical
content decomposition." gave us a small taste of how problematic this is
because none of the words in that quote (except possibly "content" - which
is debatable) are in the daily vocabularies of much of our intended
audience.
If I try to explain what I do to the people I play poker with (mostly Latino
agricultural workers), I bumble horribly. Al Gilman has a similar problem
with almost everyone he talks to outside the rarified places he mostly
frequents. While I don't expect to pattern-match to the guy who maintains
the milking machines, I think we even have a problem with a great many
people who design Web sites - and even more so with their managers.
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
Sorry to interject and otherwise interrupt the thread of this
conversation -- but thanks Bill for bringing a smile to my face today. This
response is a gem! (Sorry Al).
- Mike
As I suggested before, I would really like to see a "WCAG in 10 points"
that is similar to the "XML in 10 points" [1]. Based on Al's and William's
terse statement of principles, here are some possibilities for the points:
Accessible Web content is a method for removing barriers to information.
Accessible Web content presents information without depending on any one
device or sense.
Accessible Web content separates structure and content from presentation.
Accessible Web content is highly structured and easy to navigate.
Accessible Web content is easy to understand.
Accessible Web content contains images, movies, text, applets, and scripts.
Others? Thoughts?
[1] http://www.w3.org/XML/1999/XML-in-10-points
Al Gilman and William Loughborough have separately sent suggestions for
high level principles. I have merged the two. AG denotes Al Gilman, WL
denotes William Loughborough.
AG:: Leave no gratuitous barrier between the information and its consumer.
AG:: Transform gracefully into various views, don't depend on any one
device or sense.
WL:: Assure content availability across sensory modalities.
WL:: Permit user modifications of (recommended) default presentations.
WL:: Design user interfaces for device independence.
AG:: Separate the content that informs all views from the presentation that
is view specific.
WL:: Convey semantics using content, structure, and markup (or data models)
rather than presentation.
WL:: Separate content and structure from presentation; capture semantics
with markup.
wendy a chisholm
world wide web consortium
web accessibility initiative
madison, wi usa
