As I think I mentioned before, the IETF revised policies on us
in RFC 2434, in the time between when we submitted the draft
standard and its approval. No one noticed this change at the time.
In sections 3.5 and 3.6 of we define content and transfer coding
values that require registration.
RFC 2435 requires us to specify whether new values need to
be reviewed, for what purpose and/or if they need approval.
We are silent on the approval process.
From looking at section 2 of 2435, I believe we are
In 3.5 we now say:
"New content-coding value tokens SHOULD be registered; to allow
interoperability between clients and servers, specifications of the
content coding algorithms needed to implement a new value SHOULD be
publicly available and adequate for independent implementation, and
conform to the purpose of content coding defined in this section."
Unless there are complaints, I plan to revise this to say:
"New content-coding value tokens SHOULD be registered; to allow
interoperability between clients and servers, specifications of the
content coding algorithms needed to implement a new value SHOULD be
publicly available and adequate for independent implementation, and
conform to the purpose of content coding defined in this section. New
registrations are reviewed and approved by the IESG according to these
criteria."
Since other standards bodies may define documents that might be very
appropriate for content and transfer codings, it seems to me that just
leaving it to the IESG to evaluate is the correct approach.
Jim Gettys Jim.Gettys@hp.com
HP Labs, Cambridge Research Laboratory
I think this is a reasonable approach. I do have concerns about the
IESG's ability to keep up with registrations in general, but it's not
likely that there will be a flood of new content-codings and
transfer-codings (I hope).
It may be helpful to review the "purpose of content coding defined in
this section" to make sure that it gives complete and accurate guidance
to the IESG.
In particular, I've seen some interest in the definition of
format-specific content- and transfer-codings (for example, one that
allows more efficient transfer of XML, based on the structure of the
body). There isn't any text in 3.5 that disallows non-generic codings;
can this be taken to mean that the IESG shouldn't have any problem with
registering such a coding?
Regards,
From looking at section 2 of 2435, I believe we are
It might also be a good idea to point out (in the revised version
of RFC2616) that there is a soon-to-be? BCP
"Registration procedures for message header fields"
Klyne, Nottingham, Mogul
According to the IETF ID Tracker, the IESG has approved an earlier
draft as a BCP (back in May) but there are some minor revisions
that require "AD followup". I think it would be safe to add a
non-normative reference, given that this ID is far enough through
the IESG process that it should have an RFC number long before
the Full Standard for HTTP/1.1 could be an RFC. (Yes, it might
be naive to trust the IESG process this much.)
I would suggest putting something in 4.2 (Message Headers)
along the lines of:
All HTTP header field-names SHOULD be registered
according to the procedure in [draft-klyne-msghdr-registry-07].
I believe that one of my co-authors on this I-D has already
prepared an initial list of field-names including fields from
all extant HTTP-related RFCs.
-Jeff
Of course, I'm fighting with Word to generate the ascii.... Sigh...
Never again....
I note that if the reference is non-normative, we can't say SHOULD.
- Jim
Jim Gettys Jim.Gettys@hp.com
HP Labs, Cambridge Research Laboratory
Unless there are complaints, I plan to revise [3.5] to say:
"New content-coding value tokens SHOULD be registered; to allow
interoperability between clients and servers, specifications of the
content coding algorithms needed to implement a new value SHOULD be
publicly available and adequate for independent implementation, and
conform to the purpose of content coding defined in this section. New
registrations are reviewed and approved by the IESG according to these
criteria."
I note that if the reference is non-normative, we can't say SHOULD.
First of all, I'm not really sure if a reference to a BCP must
be non-normative. What's the IETF rule about this? I did a
quick skim of RFC2026 (especially section 5.1) but I couldn't
figure this out. Note that RFC2026 is itself a BCP but people
seem to treat it as normative :-)
More important, if you look at the language you proposed for 3.5,
you have a normative (SHOULD) requirement for registration, but a
non-normative (passive-verb) statement about how this
registration will take place. That seems odd -- requiring
registration but not requiring people to follow a specific
registration procedure? -- but perhaps this is the best we can
do. If so, I'll change my suggestion for 4.2 to mirror your
language for 3.5:
All HTTP header field-names SHOULD be registered; header
field-names are registered according to the procedure in
[draft-klyne-msghdr-registry-07].
Still, on the whole I would prefer to find a way to make both
of these statements "normative all the way down."
-Jeff
If you can save it as XML using a recent version of Word (maybe
someone at MS can help there) and send it to me, I will convert
it to XML RFC form.
....Roy
Certainly, I have no copy of word so recent.
Donations of XML greatly appreciated :-).
Anyone who can do so I'd be happy (relieved) to send the Word file
to...
- Jim
Jim Gettys Jim.Gettys@hp.com
HP Labs, Cambridge Research Laboratory
