Hello Education and Outreach Colleagues,
I was talking to a friend today -- an amateur web developer and professional
disability rights advocate -- who complained that the W3C guidelines are
overly technical for her needs. She wants a plain language version of the
guidelines. As she is fairly technologically savvy, she expressed frustration
at having to work so hard to understand what must be done to make accessible
web pages. To illustrate her point, she read me the Quick Tip card description
of Image map. I agree with her, the tone is definitely geeky. But not everyone
who develops web pages speaks the language of client-side servers and
hotspots. I would guess that most people who develop web pages are amateurs
(in the original sense of the word: from amore or amour: an activity done out
of love.) Will these people freeze when they read "make line by line reading
sensible?" or "Use CSS?"
How about we create a "user-friendly" version of the Web Content guidelines?
Maybe a primer.
Alan
you are not the first to ask about this...this si a part of obtaining buy-in
from the user community so implementation will go easier. Remember my
comments from toronto last year, "create a wcag for dummies" version....
hey, are there going to be EO, WAI and WCAG meetings at the www9?
/rob
professional
frustration
accessible
description
everyone
amateurs
out
reading
guidelines?
AC:: "How about we create a "user-friendly" version of the Web Content
guidelines? Maybe a primer."
WL: Great idea. Would you take that as an action item?
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
What about the WCAG Curriculum? Particularly the Example Set of the WCAG
Curriculum?
Curriculum: http://www.starlingweb.com/wai/wcag/
Example set: http://www.starlingweb.com/wai/wcag/sam1-0.htm
Please note that the curriculum will be moving to W3C space in the next
week or so. Don't bookmark pages in the above site as they will soon be
invalid. Once the curriculum is in the W3C space, WAI EO will likely start
promoting it more heavily.
Regards,
Chuck
Starling Access Services
"Access A World Of Possibility"
e-mail: info@starlingweb.com
URL: http://www.starlingweb.com
Please take a look at www.peepo.com/access for a first small attempt at
this.
If you are prepared to create something else,
please try to use good examples rather than text.
(as in QED) and post the URI so we can take a look.
jay@peepo.com
Jonathan Chetwynd
Special needs teacher / web accessibility consultant
Got a "could not connect to remote server" from both links at
- Judy
Judy Brewer jbrewer@w3.org +1.617.258.9741 http://www.w3.org/WAI
Director, Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI) International Program Office
World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)
MIT/LCS Room NE43-355, 545 Technology Square, Cambridge, MA, 02139, USA
