Telecon with Scott Luebking 10 October 97
He is at Berkeley.
He wrote a browser and got to observe blind people using it. It
had both absolute and relative motion commands to move around
from cell to cell within a table. It had a variable level of
header regurgitation with cell contents. The users seemed to get
the hang of the tables with this.
The header regurgitation was based on header data propagated to
the browser's runtime data structures for the cell. It was all
there all the time with variable levels of what got shown or
hidden. This at least requires that one knows which headers go
with which cells.
His idea for how to clearly indicate this header/row association
is to have attributes in the TABLE declaration (root) itself
saying which rows contain column heads and which columns contain
row heads.
-- Al Gilman
This matches my understanding too.
This is too limited. It doesn't say how to deal with cases where a
column contains both column and row headers. The scope proposal is
more flexible in this respect and simple to support with the current
desktop word processing software table editing paradigm.
The tables that fit Scott's suggestion can in fact be handled
without any additional markup, using the following algorithm from
section 12.3 of the 4.0 draft spec, see:
In the absence of the axes attribute, user agents may search for
pertinent headers according to the following algorithm. The goal of
the algorithm is to find an ordered list of headers. (In the
following description of the algorithm the table directionality is
assumed to be left-to-right.)
First, search left from the cell's position to find row header
cells. Then search upwards to find column header cells. The search
in a given direction stops when the edge of the table is reached or
when a data cell is found after a header cell.
* Row headers are inserted into the list in the order they appear
in the table, e.g., the leftmost headers are inserted before the
header to their right.
* Column headers are inserted after row headers, in the order they
appear in the table. The topmost header is inserted before the
header below it.
* If a header cell has an axes attribute, then the headers
referenced by this attribute are inserted into the list and the
search stopped in the current direction.
* TD cells with axis attributes are treated as acting as header
cells.
Regards,
-- Dave Raggett dsr@w3.org http://www.w3.org/People/Raggett
World Wide Web Consortium (on assignment from HP Labs)
to follow up on what Dave Raggett said:
I agree.
I think that your "scope" proposal, give or take minor munges,
should go forward in our package of proposals.
-- Al
