Last week was very busy. I was remiss in sending out an update of
exciting developments.
WWW2004 Panel +1
We have the go ahead from local hosts to do a panel on W3photo Tuesday
or Wednesday of WWW2004. We can also do a booth...if we can organize
people/ourselves to have people at the booth.
Privacy/Annotation Issues +1
Great IRC discussion led to thinking of contributed photos like blog
posts: contributor can annotate, others can comment on
annotations/regions. This simplifies certain policy issues. Of course,
this is the semantic web, so others can create annotations on their own
sites that point to photos.
WWW2004 is a starting point +1
AKTive Space is going to focus first on organizing conference material
for www2004 and then go back to past years. It probably makes the most
sense if we present w3photo at www2004 as the beginning of something
rather than a finished presentation.
Collaborative Workshop?
Mike and I discussed if the w3photo booth should be more like a
collaborative workshop...an ongoing opportunity for people to see and
to explore the building of this archive. Thoughts?
best,
Greg
This is the TEMPORARY discussion list for the W3 Semantic-Photo History
Project. For questions, contact greg@fotonotes.net.
Subscribe Instructions
Body: subscribe
Unsubscribe Instructions
Body: unsubscribe
Help
Body: help
Sorry I've been so out of the loop - here's some quick responses
panel is good, also like the booth idea - but see below
makes sense
I would be upset if anyone ever considered this something different -
I only bought in to the current design (slightly Sem Webbie) because
I assumed we'd be doing more in the future
Why not run as a "kiosk" where people can bring photos, mark them up,
add markup, etc -- if we could get a couple of machines and people
would bring by USB disks w/photos on them, we could build the archive
dynamically and in real time...
Professor James Hendler http://www.cs.umd.edu/users/hendler
Director, Semantic Web and Agent Technologies 301-405-2696
Univ of Maryland, College Park, MD 20742 240-277-3388 (Cell)
This is the TEMPORARY discussion list for the W3 Semantic-Photo History
Project. For questions, contact greg@fotonotes.net.
Subscribe Instructions
Body: subscribe
Unsubscribe Instructions
Body: unsubscribe
Help
Body: help
sounds just great. I'd really like to be there but I'm still not sure
if I can afford it. _If_ I'm going I could bring along a notebook and
support us/the booth team. (hmm, there is this "interaction design and
SW" workshop on tuesday, that I'd like to attend then, too...;)
are there already ideas how to realize that technically? (extra terms
for annotation comments / reification / distinction on application
level / ... ?)
makes a lot of sense to me, as we will probably have various different
annotation tools (hey libby, I like those "tab"-extensions!) that are
still under development. and I guess we'll still be at an experimental
stage in may (only 7 weeks to go)
yeah, I'd like that. and also Jim Hendler's "kiosk" idea. would be
perfect to get instant feedback (on tools, privacy issues, ...), and
IMO also very good for SemWeb word spreading/deployment (if we get our
tools working by then) as people could experience some of the RDF
benefits, e.g. "this tool's cool for mass annotating, this one to
identify people, this one for browsing.", "No, you don't need to
make a local copy", "yes, you could add another annotation property
on 'runtime'" ...
great news, Greg. reeespect!
benjamin
Benjamin Nowack
Kruppstr. 82-100
45145 Essen, Germany
This is the TEMPORARY discussion list for the W3 Semantic-Photo History
Project. For questions, contact greg@fotonotes.net.
Subscribe Instructions
Body: subscribe
Unsubscribe Instructions
Body: unsubscribe
Help
Body: help
