Has anyone used this? Comments?
The Web Static Analyzer Tool (WebSAT) checks the html of a web page against
numerous usability guidelines. The output from WebSAT consists of
identification of potential usability problems which should be investigated
further through user testing.
Here's more on this...
WebMetrics 1.0 Tool Suite
NIST is pleased to announce that Release 1.0 of the WebMetrics Tool Suite
is now available from the National Institute of Standards and Technology as
free software at, http://www.nist.gov/webmetrics.
The WebMetrics project is focused on providing tools to help with rapid,
remote, and automated usability testing and evaluation of web sites.
Please feel free to send out our url to others as appropriate and link to
our web site. If you are using our tools, please contact us about
participating in the collection of case study data to help validate our
tools. We need your feedback! Please send your comments, bug reports, and
questions to webmetrics@nist.gov.
Here is an informal description of these tools. All run on Unix, Windows
NT, and Windows 95.
* The Web Static Analyizer Tool (WebSAT) checks the html of a Web page
against numerous guidelines. The output from WebSAT identifies potential
usability problems which should be investigated through further user
testing. WebSAT can be executed from any web browser or downloaded to
accommodate those behind firewalls.
* The Web Category Analysis Tool (WebCAT) helps the usability engineer
quickly construct and conduct a simple category analysis across the web.
WebCAT should be downloaded and installed on your web server for local
storage of your result files. Examples of WebCAT are available on the web
site.
* The Web Visual Instrumenter Program (WebVIP) helps the usability engineer
rapidly instrument a web site for local or remote testing by employing
visual instrumenting as well as automated techniques. WebVIP must be
downloaded and installed on your web server before it can be run.
For more information contact Sharon Laskowski, at 301-975-4535,
sharon@coastline.ncsl.nist.gov, Information Technology Laboratory, National
Institute of Standards and Technology.
Has anyone used this? Comments?
The Web Static Analyzer Tool (WebSAT) checks the html of a web page against
numerous usability guidelines. The output from WebSAT consists of
identification of potential usability problems which should be investigated
further through user testing.
Yes
A work in progress.
Does allow the page author to view his/her page from a different
perspective.
Does not necessarily agree in all aspects with W3C's guidelines.
Program maintainers are responsive and willing to look at(and fix) any
problems found with the way they are checking the page.
An end-all validator? No
An excellent guideline? Yes
