Hi Charmane,
I like the approach you have taken to this section. Without (I hope)
changing your style I offer the following slight rewordings for discussion:
In the second sentence of the introductory paragraph, I would add the word
"savings" (but perhaps it is redundant in this context):
"This efficiency may be reflected in manpower and direct cost savings to
the organization. "
Bullet 1:
* Update and redesign time may be reduced by using an appropriate
existing markup language to style and format text, formulae and images
instead of using difficult to modify bitmaps. (Checkpoint 3.1)
Perhaps the above change is a bit too jargony, but I think it comes closer
to the original intent of Checkpoint 3.1. (In spite of the fact that
there are people out there who think fiddling with bitmaps is much simpler
than debugging CSS.)
Bullet 2:
* Writing documents that follow a published formal grammar and
identifying it by including a DOCTYPE statement will facilitate efficient
debugging with automated validation tools. (Checkpoint 3.2)
This slight rewording makes the statement clearer (to me, at least).
Bullet 3: looks fine to me.
Bullet 4:
You (and Henk?) ask whether "mobile" should modify "devices" in the last
bullet. I don't think so, because they might not be mobile.
You ask if "repackaged" should be "repurposed". I have eight English
language dictionaries in my house but not one of them contains
"repurposed". Granted, they're more than 8 years old. Is "repurposed" a
word anywhere other than in W3C circles? Isn't "repackaged" easier to
translate? (And, yes, I'm being hypocritical because I do use "repurposed"
all the time... jargon is seductive.)
I also agree with you that adding that list of W3C technologies is useful here.
* The latest versions of W3C technologies (such as MathML, XHTML, XML,
RDF, SMIL, CSS, XSL, XSLT, and PNG) have accessibility features built
in. Using them facilitates web content repackaging to suit different
displays, browsers, and devices without the need to create additional
reformatted pages. (Checkpoint 11.1)
Regards,
Chuck Letourneau
Starling Access Services
"Access A World Of Possibility"
Greetings,
Suggested rework of "Reduce Site Maintenance" from "Technical Factors for
Consideration in a Business Case for Web Accessibility" at
http://www.w3.org/WAI/EO/Drafts/bcase/tech.html http://www.w3.org/WAI/EO/Drafts/bcase/tech.html
I specified the technologies in the last bullet because most people won't
have a clue what technologies you are talking about. At least this way
they have a starting point and search out info on the technologies easily.
"The latest versions of W3C technologies ....have accessibility features
built in" came from
http://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG10-CORE-TECHS/#access-reviewed http://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG10-CORE-TECHS/#access-reviewed
Is this accurate?
Like Henk, I wonder about including the word "mobile" with devices. I am
also wondering about using "repurposed" instead of "repackaged" in the
last bullet item.
Reduce Site Maintenance
Implementing relevant WCAG design techniques may reduce time spent on site
development and maintenance. This efficiency may be reflected in manpower
and direct cost to the organization.
* Update and redesign time may be reduced by using style sheets,
appropriate existing markup language, or text in place of images.
(Checkpoint 3.1)
* Writing documents and identifying the published formal grammar by
including a DOCTYPE statement will facilitate efficient debugging with
automated validation tools. (Checkpoint 3.2)
* Controlling layout and presentation through a style sheet allows
changes to affect the entire website at once rather than repeating the
identical change in separate files. (Checkpoint 3.3)
* The latest versions of W3C technologies (such as MathML, XHTML, XML,
RDF, SMIL, CSS, XSL, XSLT, and PNG) have accessibility features built
in. Using them facilitates web content repackaging to suit different
displays, browsers, and devices without the need to create additional
reformatted pages. (Checkpoint 11.1)
Charmane K. Corcoran
Information &amp; Project Principal
Michigan State University
Here's an additional aspect for inclusion in the Technical Factors
document. What follows isn't a draft text, just brainstorming.
Using W3C technologies also reduces the effort and cost required in staff
retraining.Technologies like HTML, XML have a wide base of experienced
designers and developers. HTML as it is used today has been stable since
1997, XML since 1998. Users who learned HTML in 1997 find that their skills
from that period are as valid to day as they were then. Using W3C standards
protects investment in training, coding and content against changing
versions of browsers and plugins. Content marked up using W3C languages
will stand the test of time. Using W3C technologies avoids vendor lock-in.
W3C technologies are the result of industry consensus.
I think this is an important technical factor. Organisations spend large
sums on hiring people to develop Flash, Java Applets and other proprietary
formats.
Also, it might seem like a format like SMIL implies an important training
effort, as there are few people who know it, but at least once they've
learned it, they can apply the knowledge across different multimedia
formats.
regards to all
Alan Chuter
achuter@teleservicios.es
Here are some more ideas:
Replace "manpower" and "time" with "effort"
The point on validation could mention that validated code is less likely to
need to be tweaked/rewritten for new browsers and versions. It can also be
transformed and corrected.
In the last point, perhaps "The latest versions" isn't necessary, as
keeping up with the lates version implies increased maintenance.
In the update and redesign point, we could delete "existing" or replace it
wiht "standardised".
I'm not clear about how built-in accessibility features reduce site
maintenance, perhaps this should explained.
"Repackaging" might be better expressed as "repurposing" or "reuse".
In the last sentence, I think "access modes" or "multimodal access" and
"devices" are the words to use.
regards to all,
Alan Chuter
achuter@teleservicios.es
On Wed, 21 May 2003 14:59:28 -0400, Chuck Letourneau cpl@starlingweb.com
