Can I use tidy while leaving the indents of my page as they were?
If not, then I would like to make this a feature request because I'm not
always happy with the way tidy reformats a page.
regards,
Pim van Arend.
No. The first paragraph under the subtitle "Layout style" within
possible but also why it can't be an added feature.
If you're desperate to preserve a laboriously contrived layout -- and I
know I sometimes am -- then here is a (probably more laborious)
workaround. Ignore Tidy's standard output and instead read its
error/warning file (the file you specify after the "-f" switch), making
your own corrections to the original file as appropriate.
Peter Evans evans@i.hosei.ac.jp
I should have read this more carefully.No more questions ;)
thanks,
Pim van Arend.
Yes, I do this too. However, you have to watch out for a few
things that Tidy changes without warning you about - double quote
marks (") changed to , apostrophes to &amp;#39;, and lone
ampersands (&amp;) to &amp;amp;.
While sympathising with the original request, I think it is
outside of Tidy's original remit, which is (as I understand it) to
correct an HTML file so it is legal. This necessarily entails
disassembling it, and the corrected result can only be re-created to
some defined standard, as indentation may HAVE to be changed to make
the file legal.
I think Tidy should be treated as a "first pass" engine, and
if you want to re-edit the output to your indentation standard, then
that is up to you. Incremental code changes can then be re-checked,
errors noted, and the original files corrected by hand. As Mr.Evans
says, this is a rather laborious approach, but once done, incremental
changes are easier.
Or, of course, you could learn to love the standard output
style adopted by Tidy. :-)
Regards,
Peter
Another thing to try would be:
- Before running Tidy, Find and Replace all tabs with an HTML entity that
you don't already have in your code.
- Run Tidy on the resulting mess with indenting turned off.
- Replace all of the entities in the resulting code with tabs again.
Voila!
If you use BBTidy with BBEdit on the Mac, just write a little AppleScript to
do this for you. Tabs are searched for using "\t".
ANDREW GRANTHAM
Interface Development
Cyberplex
From: Barney Wol
Sent: Tuesday, March 13, 2001 7:28 PM
Subject: Re: tidy without indenting?
