Hi all,
While testing an HTTP/1.1 proxy server I am working on,
I found a page on a major site that returns the following
response on a conditional GET:
HTTP/1.0 304 Not Modified
Content-type: image/gif
Content-length: 4672
Expires: Thu, 15 Apr 2010 20:00:00 GMT
Last-modified: Fri, 15 Apr 1994 00:00:00 GMT
The response didn't contain a body, but the presence
of a Content-Length threw off the proxy. I'll be fixing
that in the name of tolerance in any case. But I was
wondering if including a Content-Length on a response
that must NOT include a body and which isn't produced by
a HEAD request should be considered a bug? That is,
should I point out to the site operator that his/her
server is generating bad HTTP or is this OK since 304
tells us there won't be a body anyway?
Any opinions?
Wham! wham_bang@yahoo.com
Do You Yahoo!?
Get your free @yahoo.com address at http://mail.yahoo.com
In a previous episode Wham Bang said...
:: While testing an HTTP/1.1 proxy server I am working on,
:: I found a page on a major site that returns the following
:: response on a conditional GET:
::  HTTP/1.0 304 Not Modified
::  Content-type: image/gif
::  Content-length: 4672
::  Expires: Thu, 15 Apr 2010 20:00:00 GMT
::  Last-modified: Fri, 15 Apr 1994 00:00:00 GMT
::
:: The response didn't contain a body, but the presence
:: of a Content-Length threw off the proxy. I'll be fixing
:: that in the name of tolerance in any case. But I was
:: wondering if including a Content-Length on a response
:: that must NOT include a body and which isn't produced by
:: a HEAD request should be considered a bug? That is,
my reasonably literate (but not super expert) reading makes this look
like a lose-lose (you're both wrong ;).. story of my life some days..)
as for your proxy:
4.4 Message Length
The transfer-length of a message is the length of the message-body
as it appears in the message; that is, after any transfer-codings
have been applied. When a message-body is included with a message,
the transfer-length of that body is determined by one of the
following (in order of precedence):
1.Any response message which "MUST NOT" include a message-body
(such as the 1xx, 204, and 304 responses and any response to a
HEAD request) is always terminated by the first empty line after
the header fields, regardless of the entity-header fields present
in the message.
so ignoring content-length isn't just tolerant, it's required.
and as for the content provider:
14.13 Content-Length
The Content-Length entity-header field indicates the size of the
entity-body, in decimal number of OCTETs, sent to the recipient or,
in the case of the HEAD method, the size of the entity-body that
would have been sent have been sent had the request been a GET.
they're definitely in the wrong as their entity body is size 0 and
they aren't responding to a HEAD.
-P
Hello again,
Hmmmm, in retrospect I'm a little disapointed at myself for
troubling the list with stuff that turns out to be
pretty clearly spelled out in the spec... Sorry.
Yes, the quote makes it quite clear. Hey, at least I was going to
fix it. :)
Someone disagreed with this opinion via email, but I'd tend
to agree. The language is (again) quite clear. Putting in
Content-Length: 0 would've been OK though.
Thanks for the clarifications!
Wham! wham_bang@yahoo.com
Do You Yahoo!?
Get your free @yahoo.com address at http://mail.yahoo.com
