I took an action item to write a proposed introduction to the document
under discussion at the last teleconference. The document seems to be
unavailable but here's a crude try at a first draft:
EVALUATION AND REPAIR TOOL TIPS
The WAI has produced a foundation Recommendation, the WCAG, upon which
are based working drafts of what it is hoped will become further
Recommendations: one for User Agents; another for Authoring Tools.
These documents try to make clear the parameters essential to a Web that
enables "everything, everyone connected", especially Persons With
Disabilities.
In order for an author or user of materials on the Web to determine if a
particular site is likely to be accesible to PWDs, it is important to
have some functional, friendly, and free tools for site evaluation and,
if possible, repair of problems that may be uncovered.
To this end we are developing guidelines for such Evaluation &amp; Repair
Tools - sort of "Guidelines for the Guidelines." Although these are
meant to be used by those who would create tools, they may prove useful
to anyone interested in an accessible Web.
The most important aspect of any such tools is that they be themselves
accessible. Since many people trying to use them will be fairly new to
technological matters they should be pleasant to use, not condescending
in tone, and avoid the "cry wolf" syndrome.
It is clear that only a limited set of the checkpoints may be
objectively tested by a tool. there will be much dependence on the
user's ability to use common sense to determine conformance to the
guidelines. To this end it is imperative that any tool have features
that assist in reminding, without nagging; in helping, without
demeaning; in suggesting, without demanding.
A fairly comprehensive listing of available tools may be found at:
lists.
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
William,
I like your intro. Here's my suggested changes:
The Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI) produced a foundation document, The
WAI Web Content
Accessibility Guidelines, that describes what must be done to make an HTML
page accessible to all. Two working draft recommendation papers were
produced, based on these WAI guidelines; one for user agents; another for
authoring tools.
The draft recommendation papers try to make clear that the WWW should enable
everyone, especially those with disabilities.
To determine if a web site is accessible to everyone, it is important to
have functional, friendly and free tools for site evaluation and, if
possible, repair of problems that may be uncovered.
This document describes techniques that may be used by such 'evaluation and
repair' tools to uncover accessibility problems and possibly repair them.
These guidelines may be used by those who create web authoring tools or to
anyone interested in creating accessible web documents.
It is important that evaluation and repair tools themselves be accessible.
Many people using these tools may be new to this technology and will require
software programs that are easy to use while not condescending in tone. Is
also important that the evaluation tool does not generate excessive warnings
or false positive accessibility errors to avoid the 'cry wolf' syndrome.
It is clear that only a limited set of the WAI Guideline's checkpoints may
be objectively tested by a software tool. There will still be a dependence
on the user's ability to use common sense to determine conformance to the
guidelines. It is imperative that any tool have features that assist in
reminding, without nagging; in helping, without demeaning; in suggesting,
without demanding.
We hope that the techniques in this document, implemented in software
programs, will gently guide authors along the path to more accessible
documents.
Chris
Thanks to Chris for the comments on the proposed intro. I endorse the
modifications and wonder if anyone has any tersification proposals or
other comments. I do believe the document will benefit from some such
introduction.
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
