Hi Keith,
Someone gives me a page where TOM seems to work fine at
TOM seems to remove images from my example page
and no alt tags.
Why are the images removed from that page?
At the bottom of that page there is a buttonbar INPUT TYPE=IMAGE
SRC="image.gif". The images.gif file is an image map. TOM does not see that
it is an image map. Maybe it is difficult to handle this construction?
Regards Peter Verhoeven
Today I did some testing with the TOM tool and want to give you some feedback.
I find that TOM only works on what I called here simple webpages, but not
on more complex pages including IMAGE MAPS.
At the webpage http://www.ns.nl/reisinfo/start.asp
you can plan you travel by train. There are to IMAGE MAPS on this page. One
at the top left and one at the bottom right.
After entering the URL in the TOM tool I can fill the ALT tag for some
images and the descriptions for the client side map. I can not fill
descriptions for the image map (buttonbar) at the bottom right of the
document.
After processing the TOM form (I checked add alt tags) an document results
that is not accessible at all.
ALT tags are added to the client side map, but I don't see them at all.
This is because my Netscape 4.5 browser does not support HTML 4 I think.
After saving the page and changed the relative URLs to absolute URLs I see
no image map at all? But this maybe caused by not loading the document from
the original server.
I think it is better to change such image maps in unnumbered lists?
The buttonbar INPUT TYPE=IMAGE SCR="image.gif" has an ALT tag, but the
IMAGE is a image map itself.
Regards Peter Verhoeven
Internet : http://www.plex.nl/~pverhoe (The Screen Magnifiers Homepage)
Hi Nir,
Yes, you are right. Someone on another list gives me the
TOM works not well on the example I gave at
the page and also a lot of other images on that page.
I thin a bug in the tool.
Point 2:
Concerening INPUT type=image, it can operate like
a server side image map, then there is no HTML
mechanism to give alt text to the different regions.
Making INPUT type=image a client side map
is possible only with HTML4.0.
There are a lot of IMAGE MAPS without AREA , most of them .gif files with
more options. Is the information about the URL in the image?
I thin it is important to make also these kind of maps accessible, because
they seem very popular.
Regards Peter Verhoeven
Nir Dagan
Assistant Professor of Economics
Universidad Pompeu Fabra
Barcelona (Spain)
"There is nothing quite so practical as a good theory."
-- A. Einstein
Hi, Peter,
Thanks for your feedback. First for the "disappearing image" problem.
Were you running Tom in add mode or replace mode? Remember that the
intent of replace mode is to totally strip out all images and make a
text-only page. Add mode will add alt tags, but leave the images in the
page. You'll want to use add mode.
With your image map, I have actually never seen that type of
construction used before. That can be added fairly easily, though. Tom
is trained with client-side imagemaps created with the "usemap"
attribute to the IMG tag.
I appreciate your feedback very much! Remember, Tom is a work in
progress. My studies and other activities have pulled me away from
development of Tom over the past few months, but I'm still keeping a
running wishlist. I'll add these to it. I hope I can get back in to
the project soo, as well as find others who can also help.
Thank you!
Keith
Two points:
Point 1:
"ALT tags are added to the client side map, but
I don't see them at all. This is because my Netscape 4.5
browser does not support HTML 4 I think."
ALT is a required attribute for AREA elements already
in HTML3.2. So this has little to do with support
to HTML4.0.
Point 2:
Concerening INPUT type=image, it can operate like
a server side image map, then there is no HTML
mechanism to give alt text to the different regions.
Making INPUT type=image a client side map
is possible only with HTML4.0.
Nir Dagan
Assistant Professor of Economics
Universidad Pompeu Fabra
Barcelona (Spain)
"There is nothing quite so practical as a good theory."
-- A. Einstein
