Dear sirs,
I made a download of your excellent Amaya tool.
I have a little problem:
I can't correctly read the addresses in the Address text box since the
textbox is not enough wide to contain the text.
Same problem for the Title text box.
Can I change the dimension of the characters or the Address/Title space?
My pc works under windows NT and the graphic resolution is 1024*768..
Thank you for your attention,
Marco Fossa
Marco Fossa
Dipartimento di Termoenergetica e
Condizionamento Ambientale (DITEC)
Universita' degli Studi di Genova,
via Opera Pia 15a, 16145 Genova - ITALIA
Hi,
Windows usually uses a resource editor to build dialogs,
one edit a dialog box in which one put textedit windows,
static text area, etc. All of this is built according to
a given font which is by default "small font". If you change
the font this make a trouble in the dialog boxes of course.
You can try to build dialogs in the source code without the
resource editor, however, the problem remains. When you
define a window, you have to give its heigth and width.
unless you give a too big sizes, you will have the same problem.
Conclusion, it is very diffuclt (probabely be impossible) to deal
with such a problem on Windows. This is why, most of strings are hard
coded in dialogs on Windows :-(.
Would it be possible to have horizontal scrollbars on text
fields long enough to need them?
Given the statement:
W3C's position is clear: All the protocols and languages we issue as
Recommendations should meet or
exceed established accessibility goals. In addition, we will actively
encourage the development of Web
software and content that is accessible to people with most disabilities.
in the document:
I think you should allow people to use large fonts if they
need it. I don't program under Windows, but I know there
has been a fair amount of activity by Microsoft in the
accessibility area, so they may have resources you can tie
into that would assist in this. One place to look would
probably be:
which seems to be the jumping off point for their info.
Hugh
hgs@dmu.ac.uk
