Does anyone know of sites (English please) that are AAA compliant (besides
the WAI) -- and brag about it?
Kynn, why doesn't fly the AAA banner? (It can't just be because that
orange/yellow clashes with purple?)
And a not entirely theoretical question..
Can a site claim AA conformance without using CSS?
Checkpoint 3.6 says to "use style sheets to control layout and
presentation" but how strict is this? My interpretation is that a site
would have to forgo B I CENTER FONT tags altogether and elements
like ALIGN and BGCOLOR (I am sure I am leaving many others off this list)
but then COULD be AA compliant without style sheets.
What do you think of this interpretation?
Thank you.
Bruce Bailey
I assume you left out the word AWARE ("why doesn't aware.hwg.org
fly the AAA banner")?
So far, laziness; I had the AWARE site designed before the logo
was available, and I haven't taken the time to add it on. I'm not
sure what extra functionality it would add to the site, but it may
be useful for promoting the guidelines. If I had 36 hours in a day
I would have added it already; for now it will have to wait a
while.
[BTW, orange/yellow _could_ clash with various web pages; one big
reason that many places don't display accessibility logos --
especially Bobby -- is simple asthetics.]
Kynn Bartlett mailto:kynn@hwg.org
President, HTML Writers Guild http://www.hwg.org/
AWARE Center Director http://aware.hwg.org/
Another question is "if you use tables at all for layout"
(such as http://www.hwg.org/ or http://www.kynn.com/) "can
you ever get a Double-AA rating?"
3.6 says to use CSS for layout.
5.3 says to use tables for layout only when they make sense
when linearized.
Both are priority 2. Proper use of tables according to 5.3
means you aren't following 3.6, right?
I continue to have worries that the vague wording of 3.6 and
the requirement that CSS _must_ be used for formatting and
layout (instead of alternatives that web authors are familiar
with, such as tables) means that for nearly any commercial
site out there, at best a Single-A rating is possible if they
feel there is a commercial disadvantage to using CSS.
Why's this matter? Why not just say "okay, so they'll be
Single-A"? Because the granularity of the compliance rating
system means that if you don't get one, you don't have an
incentive to try for the others. In other words, if you simply
_can't_ comply with this one priority 2 checkpoint ("use CSS
for layout"), then why bother complying with the others?
You will still be only a "Single-A" compliance site no matter
what else you do...
Kynn Bartlett mailto:kynn@hwg.org
President, HTML Writers Guild http://www.hwg.org/
AWARE Center Director http://aware.hwg.org/
Checkpoint 5.3 should be read as qualifying the effect of checkpoint 3.6
in relation to those layout functions which, until style sheets are better
supported, may, subject to the qualifications in section 5.3, be performed
via the misuse of table markup in HTML.
Thus, one could still use CSS to control margins, borders, fonts, etc.,
thereby influencing the layout of the text to that extent, but also rely
on tables to produce a columnar presentation. I think the most natural
reading of the guidelines is that style sheets are to be used to the
extent that they are supported by user agents, but that the use of tables
for layout, under prescribed circumstances, is permitted at a priority 2
level.
If the working group were to endorse this interpretation, it could perhaps
be clarified in the techniques document.
I see a conflict in Checkpoint 5.3 and 5.4. Would not it be easier to say,
"Tables can be used for data and layout. For data, here is what you need for
a Priority 1 and then list checkpoints that must be done to btain AAA level.
For layout, tables must use do not use structural mark-up and you can only
obtain AA conformance level.
It is easy to read absurdities into the guidelines by considering
individual checkpoints in abstraction from their context in the document
as a whole. However, this is not an appropriate strategy of
interpretation. I do not wish to imply that anyone has been
misinterpreting the text deliberately. Rather, I would suggest that the
tendency to concentrate on each checkpoint in isolation, for the purpose
of judging compliance, naturally leads to the overlooking of important
contextual details.
Thus, if checkpoint 5.4 is read together with checkpoint 5.3, then it is
clear that the uses of structural markup to create visual effects, against
which 5.4 is directed, do not include the employment of tables for layout
purposes as such, but comprise only the making of certain markup
distinctions (such as between TH and TD elements) which imply structure,
in cases where the author's intention is to force certain visual effects.
The example in checkpoint 5.4 makes this clear.
Similarly, checkpoints 5.3 and 3.3 can be read consistently with each
other. Indeed, the note accompanying checkpoint 5.3 makes it clear that
the use of tables for layout is a short-term exception to the requirement
specified in checkpoint 3.3 that style sheets be used to control layout
and presentation.
No doubt, one could attempt to rewrite the guidelines so as to make all of
the interrelationships among checkpoints explicit. The question to be
considered, however, is whether the added complexity which would thus be
introduced, is warranted, and whether there are significant and genuine
ambiguities that need to be addressed. The role of the "techniques
document" in clarifying the guidelines is also relevant, in that it
provides more detailed discussion of the requirements which are succinctly
expressed in the latter text.
Please note that all opinions expressed in this message are mine alone and
do not purport to reflect any discussion or consensus which may or may not
have emerged in the Web Content Guidelines working group.
if we are having this much of a problem interpreting the guidelines, just
think how much trouble lay people in the field are having - not fun!
rob
