Netscape spells it "Referer".
Webster's insists it's Referrer not Referer....
The World-Wide Web Common Code Library version 2.16pre2
produces "Referer"
also spelled wrong
NASA spells it "Referrer", and so does Netcape's JavaScript in their
"URL" library.
"IE: referrer - reflects the URL of the calling document "
I have had to look into this question recently for my logfile analysis
program, analog. "Referrer" is correct English in both US and British
varieties. Unfortunately, it's probably too late to change it now in HTTP.
Personally, I've just put it down as another example of illiteracy invading
our lives. (FWIW, analog understands either spelling as input, but outputs
"referrer" in its reports).
Stephen R. E. Turner
Stochastic Networks Group, Statistical Laboratory, University of Cambridge
e-mail: sret1@cam.ac.uk WWW: http://www.statslab.cam.ac.uk/~sret1/home.html
"You may notice that your Customer Reference Number has changed" British Gas
'referer' is misspelled. It says so in the spec.
Maybe I'm feeling overly grumpy this morning, but folks, this is not
the "general discussion about HTTP without having read the spec" list.
If you have any questions about HTTP, please at least look to see if
your question is answered in the draft document FIRST, and even then,
only post in 'http-wg' if it is something we actually need to consider
for the work items we have before us.
from draft-ietf-http-v11-spec-06.txt
14.37 Referer
The Referer[sic] request-header field allows the client to specify, for
the server's benefit, the address (URI) of the resource from which the
Request-URI was obtained (the "referrer", although the header field is
misspelled.) The Referer request-header allows a server to generate
lists of back-links to resources for interest, logging, optimized
caching, etc. It also allows obsolete or mistyped links to be traced for
maintenance. The Referer field MUST NOT be sent if the Request-URI was
obtained from a source that does not have its own URI, such as input
from the user keyboard.
I think I remember Philip ;-) H-B taking credit for this. It's
in the spec so forget about changing it. In the headers it's "Referer".
There is no requirement to propogate the spelling beyond the headers.
Referer is only spelt "wrong" if one insists on petit borgeois
notions of spelling-correctness. This movement must be seen as
a reactionary and authoritarian attempt to impose an artificial
and unnecessary conformity on language and is therefore a movement
of political and social control and to be resisted as such.
When I proposed the "referer" field to Tim I used the alternative
spelling as a means of signalling the iminent need to deconstruct
the concept of spelling, in particular the notion that machines
should follow human models of communications in issues which are
entirely conventional. From the point of view of the machine the
signifier "referer" is superior to that of "referrer" by virtue
of being a byte shorter while referencing the same designatum.
I interpret fact that this differentiation between signifier and
signified was brought to light by the "referer" field as an
unconcious but nevertheless valid recapitulation of Goedel's
incompleteness theorem.
I suggest that future comment in this thread be transferred to
alt.postmodern.
Phill
The quick answer: you loose!
Uhhhh, before one more person tells me I misspelled this,
I guess I have to specify that this was intended as an ironic
utterance.
chill out. Smoke a refer.
Cause maybe (maybe) | In my mind I'm going to Carolina
you're gonna be the one that saves me | - back in Chapel Hill May 16th.
And after all | Email address remains unchanged
You're my firewall - | ........First in Usenet.........
