Some brief comments on the latest version of the OWL Abstract Syntax
document (prompted by trying to use the abstract syntax in a tutorial
style document).
o The mixed use of "feature=X" and "feature(X)" forms is ugly and
potentially confusing -- e.g. cardinalities use "()" and someValuesFrom
uses "=". Why not stick to one or the other?
o There are places where parsing could be unnecessarily tricky, i.e.,
something like "union ( person restriction (...))" where restriction
could actually be a class called restriction or the start of some restriction
syntax.
Tidying up the syntax a little and adopting some consistent conventions
(e.g. keywords always followed by parentheses) should alleviate both these
problems I think.
Cheers,
Sean
Sean Bechhofer
seanb@cs.man.ac.uk
Sean raises a number of points here that are somethat more than editorial
changes, but are not big changes.
I have made changes to the abstract syntax document to address his
concerns. The changes amount to:
1/ Using keyword(...) uniformly throughout the document.
2/ A few other minor changes.
Parsing the revised OWL Abstract Syntax does require a bit of lookahead,
but it does fit within yacc, except for restrictions where it is difficult
to distinguish between restrictions on datatype and individual properties.
(I actually have a yacc grammar for OWL now that finesses this.)
peter
From: Sean Bechhofer seanb@cs.man.ac.uk
Subject: OWL Abstract Syntax
Date: Thu, 3 Oct 2002 11:08:38 +0100 (GMT Daylight Time)
Isn't that a contradiction in terms?
I thought with an abstract syntax, you just got handed parse trees.
There is no parsing.
Now you're talking about implementing the abstract syntax,
and you're treating comments on it as "more than editorial".
This is taking on the character of a presentation syntax,
not an abstract syntax.
I'm concerned that this distracts readers from understanding
the actual syntax of OWL, which is RDF/XML syntax.
"RESOLUTION: The meaning of an OWL document is conveyed in
the RDF graph"
"RESOLUTION: The exchange language for OWL is RDF/XML "
-- minutes Apr 2002 ftf
I note that the WG hasn't taken any decisions about the
role of the abstract syntax in our design (except to
publish a WD to get feedback). From the feedback we're
getting, I'm opposed to the continued use of the
abstract syntax in our design work.
Dan Connolly, W3C http://www.w3.org/People/Connolly/
