I'd like to know more about what happened at Munich relative to recursive
operations on collections.
How will copy, move, delete, lock work for collections in webdav? What is
being moved to a separate spec? What schedule will that separate spec be
on? Will it be developed by the webdav working group? What will be its
relationship to webdav?
I'm especially concerned because recursive operations were one of the things
that made collections attractive as a way of managing compound documents.
Recursion would have made it possible to move, copy, etc., an entire
compound document in one step -- to treat it as a single object.
--Judy
Name:Judith A. Slein
E-Mail:slein@wrc.xerox.com
MailStop:105-50C
Great questions. Some replies.
On Thursday, August 21, 1997 6:23 AM, Judith Slein
Short answer: recursive operation for copy, move, lock, and delete are
being moved to a separate specification. At present, the DAV protocol
spec. will only specify level 0 operations (or should it be level infinity
operations?)
This is the focus of the new specification, which will start using the
recursive operation descriptions in draft-ietf-webdav-protocol-01.txt as
its base, as modified by discussion at Orem.
This is still TBD, but I hope this spec. will pop out the door a few months
after the base specification. I still need to work out with Saveen Reddy a
schedule for development of this document.
Yes. This is still within our charter -- it's just a spec.
packaging/timing issue.
things
Recursive operations will not be ignored, they will just be developed at a
slower rate than the base specification. The intent of this decision is to
remove a contentious item from the base specification to allow it to
progress faster. What I have been hearing from vendors interested in
implementing WebDAV is the need for speed so that WebDAV doesn't miss the
next round of development cycles.
This isn't a repeat of SEARCH, which grew so big it needs its own working
group.
- Jim
Also Judith, the new specification actually makes it easier to deal with
compound documents. One of the discoveries of the arguments over depth
is that compound documents are not collections. Just because something
responds to INDEX, which a compound document can, does not mean it is a
collection. A collection has additional behaviors, such as supporting
addref and delref, which compound documents do not necessarily have. As
such if you copy the URL of a compound document, you copy the entire
document. If, on the other hand, you did an INDEX and got a URL to
chapter 1 of the compound document and then copied that URL, you would
only copy chapter 1.
You need to think it through a couple of times before the logic all
makes sense but then I think you will find it is a more natural way to
manipulate compound documents.
Yaron
