This note is for the information of the
HTML and WAI Working Groups. Members
of either group who wish to contribute
material or to discuss these items
should feel free to contact me directly,
or through the WAI mailing list. Please
do not reply to the HTML mailing list.
I have accepted an action item from the
HTML Working Group to write a proposal
for content changes to the HTML 4.0 Draft.
The items which I presented to the HTML WG
and which I will expand upon in a proposal are:
-- Image maps in OBJECT element
-- Introduce LONGDESC element for
use within an object.
-- ALT text required on IMG
-- Requirement to display ALT text
-- Requirement to display TITLE attribute
on IMG, A and LINK elements
-- Table AXIS and AXES attributes
-- User preferences to provide overrides
on presentation characteristics, such
as typeface, type size, colors, contrast
-- User setting to specify cues on links
-- User agent transformation of tables (axis/axes)
Some issues on the list may be more (or exclusively)
pertinent to CSS. These are:
-- Mechanism for numbering of headings,
divisions, lists, paragraphs, etc.
-- Mechanism to generate prefix/suffix text
-- Mechanism to link alternate media versions
of a document (such as Braille)
-- Mechanism to provide phonetic info
for speech rendering
Technical Marketing DirectorWeb: http://www.grif.com
Yuri Rubinsky Insight Foundationhttp://www.yuri.org
Please Make a Tax-Deductible Donation http://www.yuri.org/donate.html
How is Murray's submission related to the WAI process and the various
relevant action items which the WAI working group has been considering for
the past few months? I thought there was intended to be a WAI results page
established that would act as a means of communicating proposals and
recommendations to the various W3C working groups, including the HTML WG.
I admit to being somewhat confused as to how Murray's action item is
integrated into ongoing WAI activities and the development of mechanisms
whereby the WAI can influence the development of W3C standards.
Incidentally, I would have expected the internal W3C procedures for
dealing with WAI recommendations to have been established right from the
outset of the project, as part of the W3C commitment to ensuring that its
standards enable web technologies and resources to be fully accessible.
Turning briefly to the specific proposals which Murray has mentioned, it
is clear that most of them have been discussed in detail on this mailing
list. Daniel Dardailler, Al Gilman and I have strongly and consistently
argued for the inclusion of image maps within the definition of the OBJECT
element. The question of whether ALT should be a required attribute of the
IMG element still appears to be controversial, as is the related issue of
whether an empty ALT string would be acceptable, even desirable, in
certain circumstances. I am surprised that Murray is suggesting that
LONGDESC should be associated with OBJECT. Rather, I understood that it
was intended to be an attribute of IMG. If I recall the HTML 4.0 draft
correctly, it effectively prescribes that the innermost OBJECT in a nested
series of OBJECT elements contain a textual description or label of the
resource to which reference is being made. Thus, the long description can
be incorporated within OBJECT (given that it is a block level element) and
there appears to be no need for a separate LONGDESC element or attribute.
The contents of OBJECT are displayed whenever the user agent is unable to
present the resource in question, or, presumably, in circumstances where
the user has opted not to display images, etc.
There is not going to be a "Murray's submission"
It will come from the WAI or not come at all.
I don't understand what happened at the HTML WG face-to-face meeting
that led to this decision but I'm working on it.
The good news is that Murray agrees to edit some of our documents.
Having read Jason's mail, and the private notes
that I have received from Daniel D., I am incensed.
I, as a member of the WAI WG took an action
to represent the WAI at the HTML, XML and CSS
meetings. I represented the group to the best
of my ability -- check with TV Raman. Through
my efforts, the HTML WG has agreed to accept
a proposal. The process of the HTML WG requires
that an INDIVIDUAL be responsible for actions,
so I am the designated individual.
I have immediately reported the results of my efforts.
I have immediately indicated that a discussion
should ensue under the WAI mailing list, but not
the HTML WG mailing list. I have indicated that
private mail will be acceptable -- because I have
been around the block a few times and I know that
sometimes people want to say things without telling
the whole group what they think.
I have nothing to apologize for and I don't intend to.
I will continue to work for accessibility in the
Web protocols, as I have since 1994 with some success.
A brief history lesson would illustrate that I have
been one of the foremost (and most vocal) proponent
of the YRIF and WAI in the world. So please, if you
want to be paranoid, please don't dump it on me.
Technical Marketing DirectorWeb: http://www.grif.com
Yuri Rubinsky Insight Foundationhttp://www.yuri.org
Please Make a Tax-Deductible Donation http://www.yuri.org/donate.html
It was not my intention that there would be,
but I am offended by this bold assertion,
and the fact that it has been made in a
semi-public forum.
I'll have to check the W3C charter, but I don't
think that such a statement is appropriate. I have
Cc'd this letter to Tim Berners-Lee and Sally Khudairi.
The fact that you don't understand should have
been enough to make you pause to gather info
before sending out statements like this. I have
Cc'd this response to Dan Connolly so that he
can comment as appropriate.
How dare you!
Technical Marketing DirectorWeb: http://www.grif.com
Yuri Rubinsky Insight Foundationhttp://www.yuri.org
Please Make a Tax-Deductible Donation http://www.yuri.org/donate.html
Murray and I will report back in detail --we are in the middle of the HTML-WG
and CSS meetings as I write.
Quick synopsis of the HTML WG with respect to WAI so far:
1) We have agreed to make alt a required attribute for IMG in both the "loose"
and "strict" DTDs in HTML 4.0.
2) The object tag has been brought back to its former state --i.e. integrates
Danniel's shape attribute proposal along with long-desc.
Best Regards,
--raman
as representative of my employer, Adobe Systems Inc.
Very good !
I am at a loss to know what was said in my previous message on this topic
that justifies such a reaction. I merely sought an explanation of the
relationship between Murray's HTML WG activity and the WAI process as a
whole. I did not intend to imply that his actions were in any way
illegitimate or reprehensible. To the extent that such an impression was
inadvertently created, I hereby apologize.
I am also very pleased with the progress that Murray and T.V. Raman have
made in advocating the importance of access issues at the HTML WG meeting.
The restoration of OBJECT to its former state is a particularly welcome
move.
The establishment within W3C of means by which WAI proposals can be
properly considered and addressed, still appears to be a live issue at
this point. I am sure that Daniel has been working diligently to resolve
the problem, and I do not wish my remarks to be taken as implying any
criticism of his efforts or those of any other participants in the WAI
project.
Thank you. If I misunderstood your mail
or reacted too strongly, I apologize.
Murray
Technical Marketing DirectorWeb: http://www.grif.com
Yuri Rubinsky Insight Foundationhttp://www.yuri.org
Please Make a Tax-Deductible Donation http://www.yuri.org/donate.html
