Most action items have found takers.
Here's the list with names.
- Cougar: W3C (myself and Arnaud Le Hors - this one also includes
topics such as ABBREV and ACRONYM that were discussed recently)
- LongDesc: Mike Paciello and George Kersher (Larry Goldberg from WGBH
is also interested)
- ICADD: DanielD (really a report that Murray Maloney sent us a while ago)
- Phonetic: Harvey Bingham (I know Dave Raggett and Kevin Schofield
from Microsoft are also interested in this one)
- ACSS: Al Gilman
- DOM: [still looking for someone, but since DOM is just starting,
that can wait a little more]
- XML: Mike and Georges
- MATH: Probably Dave Raggett
- HTTP: Javier Roma?ach
(details at
Since some of you asked to work on the same topic, I highly encourage
to start discussion and send draft requirements and proposal document
early on this list.
The output of our work is going to feed both to the various
W3C working groups (HTML/CSS/DOM/MATH/XML/HTTP) and our own work on
guidelines.
My skills include tables accessibility (I think an action item there is
appropriate, that I'd like to head), XML, ICADD, DSSSL, and the XS XML-Style
work. The tables work could remain under ICADD.
Murray Altheim should be here, as he made a major attempt while
at Spyglass. So should Murray Maloney.
Dan: this is not an area where I have any competence. Folks who do include:
Jim Fruchterman jim@arkenstone.org
Alexander Caskey afc@halcyon.com
I contacted Alexander, who indicated he'd like to help. He will be
subscribing and following up.
How about T.V.Raman there?
I have been working XML, Who is Georges?
Regards/Harvey Bingham
Sorry Harvey and Jim (Fruchterman), I mixed up your names somehow.
OK for a new item, although I think it should be under Cougar review.
I'll talk to MurraA.
Sorry for the mix-up, it's Jim that wrote me and the list about this
one, not you. I'll write down Alexander too.
T.V contacted me since I posted this message, and he's willing to
work on this one too (and the following).
Kersher.
- MATH: Probably Dave Raggett=20
And T.V.
Daniel, Harvey:
What is the status of work on tables?
Since I think that this is the current point-of-pain that carries
with it the toughest technical challenges, I would probably tilt
toward a separate work area for it.
Al Gilman
