X-URL: http://www.access.digex.net/~asgilman/web-access/TABLE/straw1.html
Language Implementation
This note outlines one possible approach to reforming HTML4 TABLEs to
permit essential semantics to be conveyed with modest additional text.
This is just an outline of the language provisions.
CLASS attribute
on TABLE
Reserve the following values
* field -- There is one output dimension which is the same for cell
values throughout the body of the table; both row and column
indices are used to convey different input conditions.
* record-list -- Each row is an entity, each column is an
independent dimension unless grouped by COLGROUP. Row membership
is stronger than column membership.
* column-group -- default reading order is by columns. Newspaper
format is an example of this class. Column membership is stronger
than row membership.
* array -- row and column identies have meaningful semantic
connotations. This class is a superclass of field and record-list.
The row and column membership are equally important in the absence
of further information.
* list -- table displays a semantic list in a graphically convenient
folded form. Calendar pages are of this class. A week is a
subsequence of the sequence of days, a column of week-rows is a
folded display of the list of days.
* set -- the tabulated items are a semantic entity as a set and lack
other relational properties between them.
* display -- the table structure is purely a visual framework.
* other -- there is more semantic basis to the array locations of
the various cells than in the display class, but it does not fit
any of the stronger predefined patterns.
SUMMARY attribute
In prose description, distinguish the cases of a table with a caption
and a table without. If there is no caption, the summary describes the
general plan or function of the table. If there is a caption, the
SUMMARY is an optional expansion on the caption appropriate to be
verbalized following the CAPTION.
ABBR attribute
Extend to be applicable to TD as well as TH
AXES attribute
Remove in favor of TYPE.
TYPE attribute
Supercedes AXES. The heuristic expansion on the attribute name which
conveys the attribute semantics is of-TYPE.
Value is ID-LIST still. No formal constraints on what entity types may
be in this list, or where they may be in the document. In the prose
description, however say that the contents of the listed entities
describe a general kind of value of which the contents of the current
cell give an example.
In the absence of an explicit TYPE attribute declaration on a TD or TH
entity, one should assume the TH which is the closest TH spanning all
columns that the current cell spans and appearing in the table above
the current cell. If there is no such entity then this attribute is
assumed empty.
CONDS attribute
Supercedes KEY and COORDS discussed earlier.
Add new attribute. Usable in TD entities only.
The heuristic expansion on the attribute name which conveys the
semantics of this attribute is under-CONDitionS.
Value is ID-LIST. No formal constraint on the element types
represented in this list. In the prose description, define this
attribute to hold a list of IDs for entities which describe the
specific conditions under which the contents of the current cell will
be observed (are valid). In the absence of an explicit CONDS
attribute, one should assume a value which is the IDs of all TD and TH
elements in same row which have inherited THROUGHOUT=KEY.
THROUGHOUT attribute
Supercedes and extends AXIS.
Specializes and complements CLASS.
Heuristic spelling is properties-applicable-THROUGHOUT-me.
Usable at least on TABLE and sub-TABLE containers COLGROUP, TROW, etc.
Consider extension to list and document hierarchy contexts such as
DIV, too. Heredity from TH cells is defined below so that THROUGHOUT
can be used on TH and TD as well. This may be considered to have a
lower urgency that having this capability on the structural containers
including TSPAN.
Takes same type of values as CLASS (user defined terms with some
predefined)
THROUGHOUT values are implicitly inherited to all elements
hierarchically within the declaring entity. Note that if TSPAN is
accepted, that hierarchical inclusion and textual inclusion are not
identical.
Heredity from TH: If THROUGHOUT appears in a TH the heredity is
defined below. This supercedes the SCOPE attribute. If THROUGHOUT
appears on a TD cell it applies to the current cell only.
Columm-wise: Column-wise heredity flows from the current TH to all TH
and TD entities which are in later rows and entirely within the set of
columns that the current TH spans. Column-wise heredity applies by
default if the current TH has a [least] row index less than its
[least]column index and no TD cells above it anywhere in the same
column(s).
Row-wise: Row-wise heredity flows from the current TH to all TH and TD
entities which are in later columns and entirely within the set of
rows spanned by the current TH. Row-wise heredity applies by default
if the current TH has a row index more than its column index and no TD
cells before it anywhere in the same row(s).
Diagonal: Diagonal heredity flows from the current TH to all TH and TD
entities which have a least row index greater than the greatest row
index of the current TH and have a least column index greater than the
greatest row index of the current TH. Diagonal heredity applies by
default if the least row index of the current TH is equal to its least
column index and the initial segment of the principal diagonal
starting with the first row and column up to the least row and column
of the current TH passes through no TD entities.
Usage: on TH, TD, and all table containers
Reserve the following values
* KEY -- the TD elements that inherit this property are default
CONDS values for all other TD elements in the same row.
* STARTOVER -- used as the first list element, this functions as a
directive which blocks heredity of THROUGHOUT items from enclosing
scopes.
In the prose, discuss the fact that on these elements it is
appropriate to use as THROUGHOUT values
* the names of physical dimensions such as LENTGH, PERMITTIVITY,
EIRP, etc.
* items from the journalist's agenda: WHO, WHAT, WHEN, WHERE, WHY,
and HOW.
* Type-names or Class-names defined in a data definition resource
linked to the table but not in the current HTML document.
If THROUGHOUT or some equivalent inheritable markup capability is not
implemented, use CLASS in this way and assume the heredity for the
purposes of heuristic or "guessing" algorithms.
AXIS attribute
Remove from the language; use THROUGHOUT instead.
TSPAN container. Heuristic spelling Tabular-SPAN.
Only usable in a TABLE.
Start Tag requires ID.
End Tag is required and requires ID matching start tag. IDs are unique
per element, not per textual occurrence. All other end-tags are
implicit because we can get away with textual inclusion to show
structure for linear and tree structures. In tables that is not
sufficient and we need to be able to have interdigitated start/stop
tags tied by shared ID values. Is this going to break every SGML-based
parser in the world? If so, we can do without, but this is the concept
one wants in a TABLE context.
Used to collect rectangular regions of convenience within a table.
The elements semantically contained in the TSPAN entity is not the
simple textual range as with SPAN. A "graphical" selection of a
rectangle in row and column space is implied. The contents are all
cells with row and column values not less than the [least] row and
column of the first TD or TH following the TSPAN ... start tag and
not greater than those [the greatest] of the last TD or TH element
prior to the /TSPAN ... end tag.
Thanks for posting your strawman attribute definitions. I would
like to see examples and motivation for these. An important point
to remember is that we won't be able to get authors to deal with
accessibility features unless these features are very simple to
understand and easy to author. At first glance your strawman appears
to fail this test.
Regards,
-- Dave Raggett dsr@w3.org http://www.w3.org/People/Raggett
World Wide Web Consortium (on assignment from HP Labs)
to follow up on what Dave Raggett said:
The author view has been discussed before. Search subjects in the
archive for "balloon." The author dialog notions there still apply.
-- Al
