Information for Developers about Changes to Internet Explorer
Issue
This section describes changes to Internet Explorer's handling of ActiveX
controls and Java applets. Developers who build ActiveX controls, Web
developers who use ActiveX and Java Applets on their Web sites, and
developers who host the Web Browser OC or MSHTML should consult this
documentation to understand how the user experience is changing, and also
how to modify their pages to manage the user experience for their content.
From this site, there are links to Microsoft documentation explaining these
changes, a test version of Internet Explorer that shows how it will work
when new versions of Windows are released that have this behavior, as well
as links to information provided by other companies who produce ActiveX
controls or tools.
Microsoft expects that new computers and retail purchases of Microsoft
Windows XP will have this behavior sometime early next calendar year.
Microsoft also expects that new service packs of Windows XP and Internet
Explorer will have this behavior starting sometime after that.
Please read this disclaimer
http://msdn.microsoft.com/ieupdate/disclaimer.asp about information on
this Web site.
Who Should Care?
For Web Developers
Changes to http://msdn.microsoft.com/ieupdate/activexchanges.asp
the Default Handling of ActiveX Controls by Internet Explorer
This topic describes the changes to the behavior of Internet Explorer when
loading ActiveX controls and how Web developers can manage the user
experience for their Web pages.
For WebOC Hosts
Handling http://msdn.microsoft.com/ieupdate/activexwebbrowser.asp
ActiveX Controls in WebOC and MSHTML Hosting Applications
This topic describes how you can control and customize the new Internet
Explorer behavior in your WebOC and MSHTML applications.
Test the Pre-Release Bits
Microsoft has made two versions of Internet Explorer 6 with the new behavior
available for testing. Microsoft strongly recommends that only developers
actively testing the changes to Windows and Internet Explorer perform the
install. In order to use either of these installation packages, you must
first have Windows XP SP1 installed.
*IE
http://download.microsoft.com/download/a/7/b/a7b11561-95e3-4d94-b1b3-913593
5bb9b5/IE6UPDv01.exe 6 Update v.01
This installation package includes the altered files for Windows and
Internet Explorer in a Self Extracting ZIP file. First, download the
package. It will ask for approval on the License terms, and then for a
location to copy the self-extracting ZIP to. Then, to install, run the
Self-Extracting zip. It will create a directory, by default called "IE 6
Update". Inside that folder will be a local copy of IEXPLORE.EXE. Double
click on that program to run the updated version. Other ways of starting
Internet Explorer will run your current system version of Internet Explorer.
Other programs that use Internet Explorer technology such as the WebOC or
MSHTML will not be changed by installing this way. This installation method
should be used by Web Developers who want to test their content running in
existing and updated versions of Internet Explorer side-by-side.
*Coming Soon
This installation updates your Windows system with the updated version of
Internet Explorer. All uses of Internet Explorer and Internet Explorer
technology on the machine will be updated with this method. This
installation method should be used by developers who want to test the
behavior of their applications that use Internet Explorer technology.
This states
"All other controls behave differently in Internet Explorer 6 SP1b than in
previous versions, including those loaded with APPLET, EMBED, or OBJECT
elements."
But goes on to only talk about the object tag, which begs the obvious question
- how are these other tags effected?
Tom Chiverton
Advanced ColdFusion Programmer
BlueFinger Limited
Underwood Business Park
Wookey Hole Road, WELLS. BA5 1AF
web: www.bluefinger.com
Company Reg No: 4209395 Registered Office: 2 Temple Back East, Temple
Quay, BRISTOL. BS1 6EG.
*** This E-mail contains confidential information for the addressee
only. If you are not the intended recipient, please notify us
immediately. You should not use, disclose, distribute or copy this
communication if received in error. No binding contract will result from
this e-mail until such time as a written document is signed on behalf of
the company. BlueFinger Limited cannot accept responsibility for the
completeness or accuracy of this message as it has been transmitted over
public networks.***
Just as a general question to the group, etc. Does this mean that the
use of flash will change? Will this mean that we will have to remove
the flash from our pages since it is embedded media content into a webpage?
TIA,
Orlando
Orlando Echevarria
Webmaster and Developer
University of Connecticut - School of Engineering
261 Glennbrook Road, Unit 2237
Storrs, CT
Quote:
The needs of the many, outweigh the needs of the few or the one.
-- Lieutenant Commander Spock, U.S.S. Enterprise, NCC-1701
Too early to tell yet since the appeals process hasn't played out yet.
Maybe in 2 years from now the answer will be more obivious. Never get
carried away with what a jury does in a civil case when one of the parties
is rolling in $$$$$ and has not exhusted its appeals.
Jim
Macromedia has added a section for the Active Content changes that
should address your questions:
Cory Hanson
Explorer
Just as a general question to the group, etc. Does this mean that the
use of flash will change? Will this mean that we will have to remove
the flash from our pages since it is embedded media content into a
webpage?
TIA,
Orlando
Orlando Echevarria
Webmaster and Developer
University of Connecticut - School of Engineering
261 Glennbrook Road, Unit 2237
Storrs, CT
Quote:
The needs of the many, outweigh the needs of the few or the one.
-- Lieutenant Commander Spock, U.S.S. Enterprise, NCC-1701
Yes Orlando, embedding Flash is changing.
A Link for Flash developers is provided off the original posted link.
You just have to do some reading :-P
By the way, Thank you Richard for the heads up - finally some useful
information and some time to build a strategy. It appears the "changed"
version of MSIE won't be out until early next year (and service packs
following after that), so that buys us some time.
Good luck everyone.....
Scott Cadillac,
XML-Extranet - http://xmlx.ca
403-281-6090 - scott@xmlx.ca
Well-formed Development
Extranet solutions using C# .NET, Witango, MSIE and XML
Still back to square one till this thing is completely settled even with
all the work around changes floating around since eolas has put such
changes on notice that it is still infringment of '906 in Doyles mind.
Jim
Hi Jim,
Can you point us to the information you reference below from Michael
Doyle? Thanks!
Regards,
D-
Dr. Daniel Austin
Sr. Technical Architect
daniel_austin@grainger.com
847 793 5044
Visit http://www.grainger.com
"If I get a little money, I buy books. If there is anything left over, I
buy clothing and food."
-Erasmus
public-web-plugins-req cc:
uest@w3.org Subject: RE: Information for Developers about Changes to Internet Explorer
10/07/2003 09:05 AM
Still back to square one till this thing is completely settled even with
all the work around changes floating around since eolas has put such
changes on notice that it is still infringment of '906 in Doyles mind.
Jim
The semantics of "first distributed hypermedia document", as defined in the
'906 patent, are definitely at issue here. These workarounds clearly are
ensuring that objects are delivered in a "second distributed hypermedia
document" going forward.
I wouldn't be surprised to see Eolas raise claims that Microsoft continues
to violate the spirit of the patent, which will just continue to drag this
thing out.
-Mike
Cubic Compass Software
From: public-web-plugins-request@w3.org
[mailto:public-web-plugins-request@w3.org] On Behalf Of Richard M. Smith
Information for Developers about Changes to Internet Explorer
