...Please review the format (headings) at
www.w3.org/WAI/EO/Drafts/UCD/design-sum#wg and reply to this list:
__ NOT APPROVE, because of the following objections):
The headings are almost there and my objections are minor, but would like to
have them addressed before approving:
1. I think "Announcements &amp; Meetings" should be split into two h2 level
headings. Announcements and meetings are both important enough to be on a
higher level, and I think it would make the content clearer. It would also
avoid the grammatically incorrect use of the ampersand.
2. If we have a possible "Related Pages" h2 , then shouldn't the possible
"Page Contents" also be an h2 ?
3. The title of the working group is the only h1 . Why? Why isn't it just a
title (with an appropriate CSS class for the title)? I understand headers to
be divisions in the content, not the title of the content. That's what
headers/headers/subheads are in newspapers. Is it done differently on the
Web?
4. I'm not sure what the rush is to have such a short time to
approve/disapprove. Depending on what other WSTF member comment, maybe it
would be best to discuss the working group pages at our next WTSF meeting
rather than being in such a hurry. I think we could discuss tweaks such as
link text - ex. "Minutes from previous meetings are available" could be just
"Minutes from previous meetings" or "Previous meeting minutes".
Beyond objections: I like the "Additional Information" header and that it is
the last header. This provides flexibility for each of the WGs while still
having consistency throughout the WG pages.
Regards,
Blossom
Blossom Michaeloff
Web Research and Design
Wells Fargo
415.222.3045
michaeka@wellsfargo.com
approve/disapprove.
To further explain:
the WAI Team... agreed to re-organize their working group home
pages to a consistent format (headings and in-page links) by the end
of this week
This Thursday is a deadline for materials for W3C Advisory Committe
review. We are updating the format of the current working group pages to
be more consistent. We can still change them later with redesign.
~ Shawn
It would also avoid the grammatically incorrect use of the ampersand.
Blossom,
Could you explain?
It is my understanding that the ampersand (&amp;) would be an acceptable
abbreviation for the word "and" in WAI site navigation, which needs to
be short, simple, and not formal.
~ Shawn
Re ampersand usage:
1. From The Associated Press Stylebook (2002): Use the ampersand when it is
part of a company's formal name: Baltimore &amp; Ohio Railroad, Newport News
Shipbuilding &amp; Dry Dock Co. The ampersand should not otherwise be used in
place of "and."
2. For a more flexible approach, see:
The ampersand (&amp;) is an often over-used abbreviation for the word "and." Its
use should be limited to a few situations.
Use an ampersand:
- in certain company names; e.g. Smith &amp; Jones Consulting;
- if space is very limited; e.g. in a table with a lot of text;
- when artistic considerations dictate; e.g. a logo; and
- in some academic references; e.g. (Grant &amp; Smith, 1998).
Do not use an ampersand in general writing simply to abbreviate the word
and. For example, we write: "We need to reorder toner cartridges and paper,"
not: "We need to reorder toner cartridges &amp; paper."
The usage suggested below (acceptable abbreviation for the word "and" in WAI
site navigation) may fit under the limited space reasoning, but I think it
should be a last resort (and not for less formal tone). Ideally we should
find a better solution.
Blossom
home pages
It would also avoid the grammatically incorrect use of the ampersand.
Blossom,
Could you explain?
It is my understanding that the ampersand (&amp;) would be an acceptable
abbreviation for the word "and" in WAI site navigation, which needs to
be short, simple, and not formal.
~ Shawn
