Hi,
I have (yet another) a question concerning point 4.10 and 3.2 in the XAG (http://www.w3.org/TR/xag.html).
They both look similar to one another.
Point 3.2 : Define navigable structures that allow discrete, sequential, structured and search navigation functionalities.
Point 4.10: Document navigable structures. Describe how discrete, sequential, structured and search navigation mechanisms should work.
Here's how I understand it:
3.2 implies that the author defines those navigable structures (perhaps by explaining in the documentation the possibilities certain elements have in making navigation possible) and 4.10 makes sure that whatever is defined is also described. Both sounds very much the same to me.
Have I (yet again) misunderstand? Can anyone explain it to me?
Thank you.
Regards,
Astrid Callista
NOCC, http://nocc.sourceforge.net
Well, I think that you have sort of understood it like we meant it. By
defining navigable structures I think we mean that there should be structure
within the XML that is suitable for navigation - IDs on the appropriate
elements (perhaps even required), the right kind of containers, etc.
4.10 does mean describe those things. It would be nice to have a
machine-readable way of doing that, but we don't have anything yet.
Cheers
Chaals
Hi,
I have (yet another) a question concerning point 4.10 and 3.2 in the XAG (http://www.w3.org/TR/xag.html).
They both look similar to one another.
Point 3.2 : Define navigable structures that allow discrete, sequential,
structured and search navigation functionalities.
Point 4.10: Document navigable structures. Describe how discrete,
sequential, structured and search navigation mechanisms should work.
Here's how I understand it: 3.2 implies that the author defines those
navigable structures (perhaps by explaining in the documentation the
possibilities certain elements have in making navigation possible) and
4.10 makes sure that whatever is defined is also described. Both sounds
very much the same to me.
Have I (yet again) misunderstand? Can anyone explain it to me?
Thank you.
Regards,
Astrid Callista
NOCC, http://nocc.sourceforge.net
Location: 21 Mitchell street FOOTSCRAY Vic 3011, Australia
(or W3C INRIA, Route des Lucioles, BP 93, 06902 Sophia Antipolis Cedex, France)
Misunderstood, but only a little.
In 3.2 it does not assume that the navigation functions have been documented.
That is why we come back and say that in 4.10.
In 3.2, all it says is that the markup should create the structures that the
navigation functions (explained under the 4.10 "export semantics" documentation)
operate on.
A named anchor is an example of satisfying 3.2, hyperlink navigation using a
#fragment URI-reference is a navigation method (direct navigation) that operates
on this structural feature within the document instance.
A MAP wrapping a navigation bar is an example of satisfying 3.2; an 'escape'
operation that is defined for any MAP element is an example of a navigation
function that operates on this structure.
See the 'escape' provisions in the standard talking book
Al
