I believe 5.5 should be at least priority 2 due to JavaScript.
Programmatic write access as priority 3 is correct since DOM 1 does not
provide for this on all elements. This should be bumped in later releases
of the UA guidelines.
I will voice my concern again about requiring DOM 1 over DOM 2 because DOM1
does not provide for a standardized event model. This is bad. I do however
appreciate the timing issue related to DOM 2's acceptance.
Rich
Rich Schwerdtfeger
Lead Architect, IBM Special Needs Systems
EMail/web: schwer@us.ibm.com http://www.austin.ibm.com/sns/rich.htm
"Two roads diverged in a wood, and I -
I took the one less traveled by, and that has made all the difference.",
Frost
Jon Gunderson jongund@ux1.cso.uiuc.edu on 02/09/2000 01:33:19 PM
Subject: PROPOSAL: User Agent Issue 190: Reduce the scope of 5.1 to say
"write access only for that which you can do through the UI."
I propose the following to resolve issue 190:
Current checkpoint:
5.1 Provide programmatic read and write access to content by conforming to
W3C Document Object Model (DOM) specifications and exporting interfaces
defined by those specifications. [Priority 1]
I suggest we use five checkpoints in this section to describe access to web
content:
5.1 Provide programmatic read access to all content using the interfaces
specified in the W3C Document Object Model (DOM level 1) and exporting
those interfaces to other applications . [Priority 1]
5.2 Provide programmatic write access to the value attribute of form
controls using the interfaces specified in the W3C Document Object Model
(DOM level 1) and exporting those interfaces to other applications .
[Priority 1]
5.3 Provide progammatic support for the event model and methods for form
controls and links using the interfaces specified in the W3C Document
Object Model (DOM level 2 CR) and exporting those interfaces to other
applications . [Priority 2]
5.4 Provide programmatic write access to all element of the W3C Document
Object Model (DOM level 1) and exporting those interfaces to other
applications . [Priority 3]
5.5 Provide progammatic support for the event model and methods for all
elements using the interfaces specified in the W3C Document Object Model
(DOM level 2 CR) and exporting those interfaces to other applications .
[Priority 3]
Jon Gunderson, Ph.D., ATP
Coordinator of Assistive Communication and Information Technology
Chair, W3C WAI User Agent Working Group
Division of Rehabilitation - Education Services
College of Applied Life Studies
University of Illinois at Urbana/Champaign
1207 S. Oak Street, Champaign, IL 61820
Voice: (217) 244-5870
E-mail: jongund@uiuc.edu
WWW: http://www.staff.uiuc.edu/~jongund
WWW: http://www.w3.org/wai/ua
I agree with Rich that access to event triggers is at least priority 2 -
these are important functions that a browser needs to provide access to. And
until they do, content authors will need to produce a whole raftof nasty
hacks to get around browser problems, which is not a good situation - only a
percentage of authors will do so, and there will continue to be an access
problem until a goodsolution is implemented.
Charles McCN
I believe 5.5 should be at least priority 2 due to JavaScript.
[etc]
The DOM event model is an ongoing discussion in the WAI/PF. We are going to
submit requirements to the DOM working group regarding the event model for
DOM 3 in March.
The reason I put it at P2 was because DOM 2 is not out yet. I also share
some device independence issues regarding the DOM 2 event model.
If some developers could start adopting the DOM 2 event model, it should
reduce the time it would take to get the desired DOM 3 event model
implemented and also ATs would have something to go from.
We ought to be pushing for P1 with DOM 3 in the UA assuming the correct
changes are made between the DOM and PF working groups.
Rich
Rich Schwerdtfeger
Lead Architect, IBM Special Needs Systems
EMail/web: schwer@us.ibm.com http://www.austin.ibm.com/sns/rich.htm
"Two roads diverged in a wood, and I -
I took the one less traveled by, and that has made all the difference.",
Frost
menovak@facstaff.wisc.edu (mark novak) on 02/10/2000 10:15:30 AM
unagi69@concentric.net , Richard Schwerdtfeger/Austin/IBM@IBMUS,
Charles McCathieNevile charles@w3.org
Protocols &amp; Formats WG w3c-wai-pf@w3.org
Subject: Re: PROPOSAL: User Agent Issue 190: Reduce the scope of 5.1 to
say "write access only for that which you can do through the UI."
hi Jon and all
I agree that all elements ought to understand and implement
the appropriate event model, so for the UA, I don't see my
next comment changing the UA process at the moment.
However, I'm not in favor of making this a priority 1, since I'm not
a fan of the event model within DOM 2. This is an on-going
(I hope ) discussion on the PF/DOM working group lists.
After the events/event model are understood, this checkpoint
may need re-visiting.
mark
It seems there is a consensus to merge 5.3 and 5.5 from my proposal into a
single checkpoint of at least Priority 2 and maybe a priority 1 level.
The
new checkpoint would require implementation of the event model specified
in
RIch,
I don't think we can put anything in our guidelines to a document that is
not a recommendation. I think it is a stretch to recommend implementation
of a DOM level 2 specification, since it is in candidate recommendation.
We need to check with Ian what the implications are of even referencing
documents that are still in the final stages of becoming a recommendation,
in this case DOM level 2.
I am concerned about referencing the current event model in DOM level 3 for
accessibility, based on the response to my proposal. It seems to be
lacking in accessibility features. The main reason I proposed it was as a
way for assistive technology to use the DOM to simulate events. Is this
enough of a reason to include it?
Jon
It seems there is a consensus to merge 5.3 and 5.5 from my proposal into a
single checkpoint of at least Priority 2 and maybe a priority 1 level.
new checkpoint would require implementation of the event model specified
Jon Gunderson, Ph.D., ATP
Coordinator of Assistive Communication and Information Technology
Chair, W3C WAI User Agent Working Group
Division of Rehabilitation - Education Services
College of Applied Life Studies
University of Illinois at Urbana/Champaign
1207 S. Oak Street, Champaign, IL 61820
Voice: (217) 244-5870
E-mail: jongund@uiuc.edu
WWW: http://www.staff.uiuc.edu/~jongund
WWW: http://www.w3.org/wai/ua
