I don't think there is an inconsistency.
XSLT 1.0 and XPath 1.0 use namespaces to qualify variable names and function
names. We can't change that, so there is little point arguing about whether
or not it was a good idea.
Michael Kay
XSLT 2.0?
In a message dated 04/08/2003 13:53:30 GMT Daylight Time,
This extended use of XML namespaces was first introduced in XSLT 1.0. You
may not like it, but it works, and it's too late to change it.
Which aspect(s) of the inconsistency underlying the problem are you
suggesting are immutable?
Andrew Watt
Michael Kay
-----Original Message-----
2.0?
In the various draft XQuery, XPath 2.0 and XSLT 2.0 documents it is
indicated that datatypes and functions are contained in designated XML
namespaces. A similar seeming error made in W3C XML Schema is also carried
forward into the XQuery/XPath/XSLT2 documents.
This seems to me to be in conflict with the Namespaces in XML 1.0
Recommendation which defines an XML namespace as applying to element type
names and attribute names. There is no provision that I can see in the
Namespaces in XML Rec for datatype or function names being part of an "XML
namespace".
Correcting this seeming discrepancy should be straightforward but it seems
to me that it needs to be tidied.
Andrew Watt
The namespaces 1.0 recommendation speaks of elements and attributes as
being qualified by a namespace identifier, but it very definitely does
not say that the only things that can be so qualified are elements and
attributes. This open-endedness is consistent with the broad principles
of extensibility that have motivated much of XML and it also reflects
current practice, as noted below.
From: xml-names-editor-request@w3.org
[mailto:xml-names-editor-request@w3.org] On Behalf Of Kay, Michael
Subject: RE: Inappropriate use of XML Namespaces in XQuery, XPath 2.0
and XSLT 2.0?
I don't think there is an inconsistency.
XSLT 1.0 and XPath 1.0 use namespaces to qualify variable names and
function names. We can't change that, so there is little point arguing
about whether or not it was a good idea.
Michael Kay
www-tag@w3.org
XPath 2.0 and XSLT 2.0?
In a message dated 04/08/2003 13:53:30 GMT Daylight Time,
This extended use of XML namespaces was first introduced in XSLT
1.0. You may not like it, but it works, and it's too late to change it.
Which aspect(s) of the inconsistency underlying the problem are
you suggesting are immutable?
Andrew Watt
Michael Kay
-----Original Message-----
2.0 and XSLT 2.0?
In the various draft XQuery, XPath 2.0 and XSLT 2.0 documents it
is indicated that datatypes and functions are contained in designated
XML namespaces. A similar seeming error made in W3C XML Schema is also
carried forward into the XQuery/XPath/XSLT2 documents.
This seems to me to be in conflict with the Namespaces in XML
1.0 Recommendation which defines an XML namespace as applying to element
type names and attribute names. There is no provision that I can see in
the Namespaces in XML Rec for datatype or function names being part of
an "XML namespace".
Correcting this seeming discrepancy should be straightforward
but it seems to me that it needs to be tidied.
Andrew Watt
(sorry for the long cc list, I don't know who is reading which list)
I agree with Andrew's comment.
It's true that there are difficulties caused by the use of
namespace prefixes within attribute values and within element
content. The problems that these uses of namespaces are
addressing are themselves not simple.
As the XML family of specifications continues to evolve, we are
starting to see patterns in the ways that namespaces and namespace
prefixes are used, and perhaps in time we will find ways to extend
XML namespaces more cleanly to information not directly held in
individual Information Set Items.
For now, if there are technical inconsistencies in the specifications,
particularly specifications currently being worked on, the Working
Groups concerned will certainly be interested in a clear and detailed
explnanation of the problems, especially if possible solutions are
offered! As Mike Kay said, though, it's too late to make people
stop doing what they are already doing without providing an
alternative mechanism.
Best,
Liam
Liam Quin, W3C XML Activity Lead, liam@w3.org, http://www.w3.org/People/Quin/
