Hi,
I've been working on the SVG output from the graph-layout
tools in GraphViz. (See: http://www.research.att.com/sw/tools/graphviz/ )
In particular, I've been trying to generate object and inline SVG images
using the webdot graph server. (See: http://www.graphviz.org/webdot/ )
Its all nearly working, but I'm having a couple of Amaya-specific problems
that I'm hoping you can help me with?
I'm using Amaya from today's CVS sources on RedHat 7.2 systems.
1. Amaya doesn't yet support: text-anchor="middle" (or "left" or
"right")
e.g. http://www.graphviz.org/cgi-bin/webdot/webdot/svginline.html
This is needed because the graphviz layout code has no access to
the exact font metrics that will eventually be used by the SVG renderer,
it may be that the fonts don't even exist locally. text-anchor allows
text strings to be visually aligned without knowing the exact string
lengths.
Are there plans for implementing this?
2. Do you have a construct for embedding SVG graphics by reference
that works on Mozilla, IE and Amaya?
On page: http://www.graphviz.org/webdot/svgembed.html
I illustrate a technique that works with Mozilla and IE, using the
Adobe plugin. Unfortunately it isn't working with Amaya.
Thanks in advance for any advice you can offer.
John Ellson
John,
The first problem you reported has gone. The text-anchor attribute
is now fully supported. Just do a CVS update followed by make and
all labels will fit nicely in their boxes.
By the way, I noticed that the text-anchor attribute is associated
with every text element in all the graphs I have checked from your
demo page. Amaya now supports inheritance of this attribute. You can
consider attaching it to some high level g or svg element, to
produce more compact files.
We are working on the second problem. I have noticed that if you
open the source view, make a change in it, such as adding an
unsignificant space, and synchronize (File menu) from that view,
the embedded svg is displayed. You can use that trick while we are
working on a complete solution.
Thanks for your report.
Vincent.
Hello John,
This now works with Amaya. The code was missing to deal with EMBED and OBJECT
when downloading its objects from the web (it did work locally).
You can get this patch from CVS.
-jose
Many thanks for these. :-)
Can you help me with a brief example of how to do this, syntactically?
John
I took the first example from your demo page, removed the text-anchor
attributes from all text elements and put a single one on the first
g .... tag. It is displayed exactly the same, but the svg file is
more compact. The modified file is enclosed.
Vincent.
