Hi,
it might be obvious, however, it seems that
the menu "special / make book" is not available when the
documentation has been loaded via the "help"-menu.
(which seems to be a feature)
so to make a book from the documentation
I had first to load the file via the
open dialogue ...
Maybe this could be mentioned in the docs ;-)
BTW:
"make book" is a very useful :-)
roland
roland.bauer@fff.at +43-(1)-33-421-88 (home)
Please complain if I do not answer within a reasonable time ;-)
In-reply-to: Your message of Wed, 03 Feb 1999 15:25:15 +0100."
Help documents are by default displayed in browser mode (ReadOnly), and you
must change the mode if you want to make a book.
If you select the entry "Show Button Bar" you will have access to the button
"Editor/Browser" and could change the mode and make the book.
Perhaps we should open Help documents with the button bar displayed.
What do you think?
There are many interesting features in Amaya that need to be documented.
We will very happy is someone could help us to complete the in line
documentation.
Thanks to Charles McCathieNevile who is documenting WAI aspects of Amaya.
Regards
Irene.
[ Snip make book problem ]
I assume that "make book" creates a new document based upon the current
document's contents, rather than actually modifying the current document.
In this case, "make book" is a read-only operation, with respect to the
current document, and there is no reason for the "make book" operation not
to be available in the read-only mode. (If it is not the case that a new
document is created with this operation, perhaps it should be so).
Perhaps also the "Edit" menu ought to have a "Toggle write status" option,
available at all times.
Ewan.
I personally would prefer this.
BTW: It seems to be a little ;-) bug that (in help-files)
this button is NOT dimmed when
the button bar is set to display=yes:
1) Switching to "display button bar": Edit-Button is active (!), Page is locked
(as expected)
2) First click: Edit-Button stays active, Page is editable
3) Second click: Edit-Button gets dimmed, File is read-only
However, do you think this behaviour (help files are shown with or without
buttonbar etc.) should be configurable? Maybe with default = "help files are
shown
with button bars"?
I personally like systems where 500 (or more ;-) properties can (!) be
configured but (!)
the default behaviour is as the "average user" would expect it ;-)
Maybe some people will think this to be overkill ...
At this point I come to another question: In order not to flood this list
with wishes which do not conform to the "philosophy of Amaya", I'd be
happy to read such a concept before asking for new features.
Or have I missed it?
So I'd first suggest a section in the docs like ...#####
TITLE: Feedback
If you have suggestions concerning the documentation of Amaya, please send
the suggested text-snippets (or wishes/suggestions) to Charles McCathieNevile
charles@amaya... .
Is this the way you like it? ;-)
Roland
roland.bauer@fff.at +43-(1)-33-421-88 (home)
Please complain if I do not answer within a reasonable time ;-)
In-reply-to: Your message of Wed, 10 Feb 1999 09:11:52 +0000."
"make book" changes the current document. It's why that command cannot be
executed
in Read-Only mode. One interest is to generate the book to print it.
Do you suggest to add an entry in the menu "Edit"?
Irene.
Yes, that's what I meant. One that simply calls the same function as does
the Browse/Edit button on the toolbar.
Ewan.
