Hello,
Today, Jon and I discussed issue 287 (about audio volume
checkpoints) [1] (refer to resolution to keep one checkpoint
about global control and one about independent control of
audio sources [2]). Jon made the following comments:
1) Independent control of audio volume is more important
for synchronized presentations than for non-synchronized
content. When content is not intended to be synchronized,
users don't need to worry about competing volumes as long
as they can play the sources independently. Global volume
control suffices when you can play different audio sources
independently. This is covered by the checkpoint to
start, pause, resume, etc. audio.
2) Speech synthesizer volume is generally handled globally
for applications, not on an application-by-application
basis.
3) "Too much control" (namely, the ability to change the
volume of independent audio sources played simultaneously)
may require such complex interaction as not to promote
accessibility in practice. Are we requiring midi user agents
to provide an interface to control the volume of each track?
An equalizer tool (fairly comment to control relative volumes)
does not typically work on individual components but on
frequencies. Would that meet the requirements of this checkpoint
nonetheless?
4) This is a fairly serious change of scope from the
previous checkpoints about volume.
5) This discussion suggests a content issue: should the WCAG
be recommending that authors provide content in recognizable
tracks (e.g., a SMIL presentation) as opposed to formats
without tracks (e.g., a WAV file)?
Based on these comments, I'd like to propose that we reconsider
the resolution. I have the following wording for the proposed
checkpoint (proposed, but in no document yet):
"Allow the user to control independently the volumes of
audio sources recognized as distinct."
I propose we create two checkpoints instead to emphasize
the critical cases and to reduce the scope of the
change:
"Allow the user to control independently the volumes
of audio sources synchronized to play simultaneously.
"Allow the user to control the synthesized speech volume
independently of other sources of audio."
Note: It is expected that speech synthesizer volume will
be set at the system level.
Notes:
- The second checkpoint is much closer in scope to the
previous version of the speech volume checkpoint. For
example, from the Candidate Recommendation:
"Allow the user to configure synthesized speech volume."
However, the new version talks about control and not
just configuration.
- As usual, if the UA cannot determine that two sources of
audio should be played simultaneously, the first
checkpoint does not apply.
Comments welcome,
- Ian
[1] http://cmos-eng.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear.html#287
[2] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2000AprJun/0506.html
Ian Jacobs (jacobs@w3.org) http://www.w3.org/People/Jacobs
Cell: +1 917 450-8783
Whoops! My apologies:
- Issue 287 is about on/off control of multimedia, blink, animations.
This is still open.
- Issue 286 is about volumes and was recorded as resolve at the
22 June teleconf.
- Ian
Ian Jacobs (jacobs@w3.org) http://www.w3.org/People/Jacobs
Cell: +1 917 450-8783
In general I agree with the proposal, although I note that the second
proposed checkpoint, about synthesized speech, is really just a special case
of the first.
The question raised in my mind is about applicability, and hinges on teh
definition of sound sources - what if the speech synthesis and something else
are generated by the same system component (whether hardware or software)?
further comments sprinkled - look for IJ and CMN
IJ
CMN I am not convinced about this - could you please expand if it is
important (but I am not sure that it is)
IJ
CMN Yes. I think this is already implicit in the use of appropriate
structure, but the checkpoints at the moment are very HTML specific. I will
follow this up on the WCAG list.
cheers
Charles McCN
Ian Jacobs (jacobs@w3.org) http://www.w3.org/People/Jacobs
Cell: +1 917 450-8783
W3C Web Accessibility Initiative http://www.w3.org/WAI
Location: I-cubed, 110 Victoria Street, Carlton VIC 3053
Postal: GPO Box 2476V, Melbourne 3001, Australia
