Can I have suggestions please for objectives and agenda items for the
upcoming face to face meeting.
Brian
Here are some ideas:
Agenda request: reification
Any volunteers to come up with a pile
of test cases that will help crystalize the
issues?
Agenda request: datatypes
I think perhaps we can choose between TDL
and S before the meeting, but there are
zillions of little details to clean up, I think.
What URI-names to use, how many, etc.
whether this impacts xml:lang etc.
Agenda request: collections
(esp. entailment stuff around bags. I have
an idea I haven't written up yet...)
Agenda request: WebOnt update
Maybe this should go on the Thursday RDF IG
agenda in stead, but I'll give folks
in this WG an opportunity to say "no, let's
spend some of our meeting time on it."
Objective: get to zero open issues on M&amp;S, i.e.
on syntax and model theory. Issue a last-call
on them ASAP after the meeting. Switch
to debug-the-test-cases mode from then on.
Objective: get to zero open issues on RDF schema.
(are we there already? if not, what's left?
if so, why haven't we done a last call?)
[I suggest choosing one of the objectives
above, not both.]
Objective: paint a picture of the end game.
What communities are critical to the consensus
around our specs? Have we reached them? If not,
what else do we need to do? Where can we
reach them? What conferences/mailing-lists/publications/etc?
Dan Connolly, W3C http://www.w3.org/People/Connolly/
Dan Connolly said:
Reordering DanC's objectives first:
For syntax this requires the decisions in order to close the issues
that I will note below.
I'd hope to add more of an explanation section before Last Call WD
for how the RDF/XML syntax works, including all features so that it
wouldn't be necessary that you understood the grammar.
If given one vote, I choose syntax :)
Get our story clear for our users
and we are not there yet for datatypes(literals), reification
and are missing a crucial WD, the primer.
From my experience in tracking what goes on with RDF
( http://ilrt.org/discovery/rdf/resources/ ) we are talking to the
right communties but we need to keep them in the loop with updates in
both directions.
Critical: XML world, Dublin Core, deployed RDF users
We particularly need to ensure we are addressing the communities our
charter mentions: XML (&amp; XML Protocol) and Topic Maps. The WG
membership does cover people in a range of other groups so some of
this might be going on already.
(although the *syntax* for what we currently call reification I doubt
will change at all).
flag this up directly in another message
The MT urgently needs this - collections are deployed.
-1 unless we have time
Dave
The recent posting on rdf-comment by Jeff Heflin on versioning
of ontologies and class relations appears to be a non-trivial
open issue for RDF Schema.
Patrick
