ONLINE MARKETING - THE NEXT GENERATION OF ADVERTISING/MARKETING
Complete Online Marketing Solutions:
At Estroco Technologies, we provide all the tools necessary to promote your business/organization.
Whether your goal is to have people come to your website, or to prospect for orders of products, we can
help. Note all prices are in US$ funds. We provide the following solutions:
1. Bulk Email Services
Let us send out your ad for you. It can be of any length, but must not be illegal in nature, or be of a
pornographic nature. The list below is a general pricing. We can customize how many you want sent out.
100,000 - 200
200,000 - 345
400,000 - 875
600,000 - 1,100
800,000 - 1,300
1,000,000 - 1,400
2,000,000 - 2,200
2. WebSite Search Engine Promotion
One key factor for getting people to go to your website is to have your site on search engines. The more
search engines you are listed on, the more hits from your intended audience you'll receive. When including
this option, we need the following criteria:
- website to be submitted
- keywords to be used(max. 25)
- Title of Web Site
- 30 word description
Also, we allow multiple submissions, which will allow maximum exposure. As well, every so often, sites
will bump your listing down so it is a good idea to have the same site, submitted at least once a month, to
guarantee to maintain your listing at the top.
Our prices:
100 engines &amp; directories - 15.00
200 engines &amp; directories - 25.00
500 engines &amp; directories - 45.00
3. Email Lists
Ok. So you want to do your own bulk emailings. Well, we have our own bulk emailing lists, which are
cleaned of remove requests, flames, etc. Also, we have much more on stock.
500,000 - 220.00
1,000,000 - 350.00
4. Targeted Mailings &amp; Targeted Email Lists
We also have targeted email addresses, and also can retrieve targeted email addresses. Minimum order of
5,000, due to the large work involved. Prices are per 5,000 @ 100.00. For Targeted Mailings prices are per
5,000 as well. Per 5,000 @ $200.00.
5. Web Page Design
Let us create your web page, with state of the art design &amp; graphics. To get started on this, you will need
we can work out and negotiate the web site to be designed.
6. Customized Graphics
We can customize any graphics you desire. For example, do you need customized pictures, a company
logo, a banner, or any type of graphical illustration? We can do all. Contact us on what you need, and we
will reply with a price quote.
7. Bulk Email Software
We are distributors for one of the best bulk email packages out there. Express Mail Server transforms your
computer into a powerful mail server. Let us show you the benefits of this amazing software. As well, you
can receive a free 3-day fully-functional demo, which will give you time to actually try out the program
package. the program retails regularly for: $299, but if you mention this ad, we will give it to you for $225.
8. Web Page Maintenance
We also can maintain your web page, and make changes as you require them. The prices can be
negotiated on this. For further info. please email us, or phone us.
9. Credit Card Merchant Account
We have arrangements with a major credit card processor, which will allow you to obtain a pre-approved
merchant account. You can then accept credit cards on your web-site, or be able to receive orders, form
email messages sent out, etc. They also have various other services that they provide. Email us for more
information.
Do you have a deal to make with us?? Send us some info. on your proposal and we will look at it. If we
want to go from there, we will negotiate fairly.
We are always coming out with new services and products. Do you have any new ideas that we can add
to our extensive list of products/services? Drop us a line, and we will certainly look over it. If there's
something that's not here, we probably came out with it, or will come out with it. Just contact us and we
will see what we can do.
How to order or Contact us:
As stated above, prices are in US. Funds. We accept as payment, check, money order, or bank transfer.
For checks and money orders please send to our postal address. For bank transfers please email, or
phone us, for further instructions.
To place an order, send a proposal, or to discuss anything with us please contact us at:
Postal Address:
Estroco Technologies
32983 Wills Road
Wainfleet, Ontario, Canada
L0S 1V0
Thanks for your attention and time
Note: if you don't wish to receive further mailings, please respond to our email address stating this, and you
will not receive any mailings from us or will not be place on any email lists, etc. You will just be transferred
to our permanent remove list, which will guarantee you receive no mailings form us, or any mailings from
lists sold by us.
hi all,
this was not how i wanted to delurk, but i am absolutely dumbfounded to find
that the result of joining a w3c mailing list is that i start getting junk
email like the three i received today... presumably everyone on all w3c
lists got it since the to: address seems to be @w3.org.
is there not some way of reconfiguring the mailserver at w3.org so that spam
sent to @w3.org doesn't get through? does anyone on this list know who to
contact wrt sorting this out?
anyway, having finished moaning, i should introduce myself.
my name is Wayne Myers, i work for BBC Education Online in London as a 'Web
Assistant', which means i do HTML, Perl and whatever else is going. i am
currently working on a thing called the Betsie project, which is an attempt
at resolving some of the quite serious accessibility problems associated
with various parts of the BBC Online offering by pushing all pages through a
CGI script that alters the page mark-up so as to improve their suitability
for text-speech browsing. Betsie will shortly be entering the test phase, at
which point i shall post the url to this list...
i was just wondering if anyone knew of anything that already does what i'm
hoping to get Betsie to do. i couldn't find anything similar, but that
doesn't mean anything...
cheers etc.,
wayne
[snip]
Hello Wayne,
As one of those who wrote to the BBC expressing my concern about these
problems, may I say how glad I am to hear something is being done, and wish
you every success with it.
I found a PD Perl script called a 'Web Page Demoroniser' at:
http://www.fourmilab.ch/ , which claims to 'correct moronic and gratuitously
incompatible HTML'. I have to admit that I haven't yet found the need to use
it but it may help to get you part way to where you want to be. It's in a
very small ZIP file, so I've taken the liberty of emailing it to you
separately. I hope it helps.
The other problem at the BBC websites is the lack of ALT texts on many of
your images. I'm afraid that these will require to be manually edited in, but
will greatly improve the site for those of us browsing with 'images off' for
whatever reason. Alan Flavell has a very good (and amusing) tutorial on the
subject of ALT texts, and I'd recommend a visit to his site:
http://ppewww.ph.gla.ac.uk/~flavell/ .
Good luck!
All the best,
Iain
Iain Logan, Langholm, Dumfriesshire - Chartered Transport Consultant
