I am trying to understand more about how to use the SCOPE
and HEADERS attribute for labeling table cells. The
examples at the end of the authoring guidelines are for
very simple tables and I wonder about how these would
really apply to many of today's tables that are used
for layout. Is it even appropriate to use these attributes
for layout based pages considering this is against the ethos
of the working guidelines? I have to admit, I'm finding
these attributes confusing.
In particular, I don't understand how to do labeling
when using: 1) nested tables, 2) column and/or row groups.
And I don't have a clear idea when I would really want
to use the HEADERS, the SCOPE, or the more general AXIS.
In many ways, the AXIS attribute seems less about
accessibility, and more about alternative views
of the data.
I'm wondering if anyone has prepared a more comprehensive
set of examples using these attributes, or if anyone has
implemented a simple text-based table browser that is designed
to help work with these issues.
Josh Krieger
to follow up on what Josh Krieger said:
It is not appropriate to use SCOPE and HEADERS for layout tables.
These are to be used when one cell (de_facto header) gives
generic inforation about one or more other cells. Pure layout
tables don't have these logical relationships between cells in
the grid.
For nested tables, I would have to see what it is used
for to comment.
For column or row groups you may use AXIS to construct a category
hierarchy. That is, use AXIS if you have second-order metadata
visible in the table.
Yes, it is about alternate views. It was supported by the WAI
reviewers, not invented by them. Alternate views have proved
helpful in audio browsing of complex tables in some (not
exhaustive) experiments.
All the HC work is still public. If you don't find what you want
in terms of a life-size example in the final HTML 4 language, you
may find it helpful to review the discussion for some
interpretation.
This just gives you a rough orientation to the general ideas.
This is a good topic for the page authoring subgroup list.
Al
Start at http://www.w3.org/WAI/HC/report.html
to work you way back into the TABLE materials.
Hiya.
I have followed this listserv now for several months. As a non-tech
person, I struggle with a lot of what I have read because it often assumes
I have knowledge I don't have. I'm not giving up, though, because I want
to understand the new standards and how to implement them.
I will have the job of educating several hundred people to meet those
standards. My first job will be convincing those several hundred people
that accessibility is important but, somehow, that job seems easy compared
to understanding 1) the standards, 2) how to implement them, and 3) the
esoteric language often used on this listserv.
Please bear with me. Ironically, I am finding that my ignorance is denying
me accessibility to learning about accessibility. /whine
- tom
tom mcCain / Butler University, Indianapolis USA
317 940-8138 / tmccain@butler.edu
to follow up on what tom mcCain said:
Thank you for speaking up. The situation you describe is just
how it is. Please bear with us. We have an Education and
Outreach team working feverishly to develop materials which will
make "the message of Web accessibility" accessible to the general
Web user.
Please forgive a certain amount of techno-babble on this list. We
have to use this list when it is not clear which specialized
group should handle a particular idea. So here you will get all
levels of traffic from novice to specialist.
Al Gilman
Tom McCain: "My first job will be convincing those several hundred
people that accessibility is important but, somehow, that job seems easy
compared to understanding 1) the standards, 2) how to implement them,
and 3) the esoteric language often used on this listserv."
WL:: Hopefully these concerns are being (effectively?) addressed by the
EO (Education &amp; Outreach) Working Group. The first "tangible" output
might be a brochure addressing the "accessibility is important" part.
The more difficult parts you express concern about will be dealt with in
several ways but: "esoteric language" might describe HTML and it is
fairly clear that until authoring tools (the purview of another Working
Group called the AU group) pretty much force guideline compliance, the
authors of web sites will have to deal with such esoterica. As long as
there are programs that pretend to convert word processor or page making
documents into valid, accessible HTML code there is no alternative to
dealing with HTML itself if one cares about accessibility in both the
sense of access to persons with disabilities and the more general
meaning of the term as a main goal of "universal design": what's more
accessible for blind guys is more accessible for all of us (as well as
for "webphones", WebTV, PDAs or even PagerWeb - God help us!).
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
to follow up on what tom mcCain said:
Tom, you are a key resource.
Over the years, I have found that the people with the answers
don't understand what the right questions are.
The Usenet FAQs are good tutorial literature because they are
organized around the questions that people actually ask.
One of the key strengths of the WAI is bringing people together
from very different backgrounds. Nobody is going to understand
every message on first reading. The reason we have an email
list is not to publish final material but to have conversations.
If a message is confusing, please ask a clarifying question.
Honest, we do a _lot_ of this on the WAI-PF list, too. The
experts don't understand one another until they ping-pong
a few messages.
Al
Concerning nested tables:
SCOPE and HEADERS can refer only to cells of
the _same_ table in which they appear.
A nested table is a content of a cell of a table. It is impossible to
refer to it from a cell of the nesting table exactly as it is impossible
to refer to a list or a paragraph in a particular cell.
Regards.
Nir Dagan
Assistant Professor of Economics
Universitat Pompeu Fabra
Barcelona (Spain)
Website: http://www.econ.upf.es/%7Edagan/
