I just installed Amaya 2.5pre on Linux-Mandrake 7.0. I notice that the bug
that had kept me from using 2.4 is fixed (structure view hangs when text
cursor is moved to bottom of screen). Thanks.
I am surprised, however, that there is no obvious way I can bookmark like
Lynx and Netscape allow. I think that functionality would make Amaya much
easier to use for bringing in source material from scattered sites from
time to time. Will we see bookmarking soon?
Thanks.
Eddie Maddox
eddie@mngovsci.com
In-reply-to: Your message of Wed, 08 Mar 2000 16:50:16 -0500."
As Amaya is an authoring tool, it's very easy to create and edit a page
HotList.html.
We considered that was enough. Do you think we have to add special functions
for
managing a default HotList.html?
Irene.
2.5pre: Thot: Irrecoverable error.
Corrupt JPEG data: premature end of data segment
*** Thot: Irrecoverable error ***
I tried it twice.
It's my credit union's site. Bummer I can't check my accounts.
Thanks.
Eddie Maddox
eddie@mngovsci.com
In-reply-to: Your message of Fri, 10 Mar 2000 07:48:04 -0500."
You're probably using a different jpeg library because I don't have
this problem with that URL.
I suspect you are working on a Unix platform, perhaps Linux?
Could you tell me what tarfile are you using?
Irene.
Besides the usual releases and pre-releases, could you have automated
daily CVS snapshots? Then, when a mention is made on this list of a bug
being fixed in, or feature added to, the CVS we can try it soon without
having to deal with CVS, or wait a few months.
A running CVS change log and bug/feature list would then be useful, too.
Another approach is a Web UI to CVS. I don't know much about that, though.
Thank you.
Eddie Maddox
eddie@mngovsci.com
I would appreciate it if this were possible. I would like to try out
the CVS version which has the fix for the bug I reported, but I feel
that I cannot allocate the time to learning CVS, which is a flexible,
and therefore compliecated, system. Ftp or http access would suit me.
I know that to make the CVS versions as easy to install as the releases
would be extra work, but I think this would give you more people able
to offer you relevant bug reports and, possibly, fixes.
I applaud this constructive suggestion.
Hugh
hgs@dmu.ac.uk
