Jonathan,
At my first, the previous teleconference (4?) someone described the
difficulty that CAST was having finding means of determining and labeling
the reading level of text that was to be used in text to speech software.
CAST has apparently learned that merely provide speech synthezation isn't
all that is needed to make the web accessible to all visually impaired
folks with normal hearing. CAST has discovered that various cognition
levels in visually impaired folks will render text-to-speech pretty useless
if the text being spoken is signigicantly above the cognition level of the
user.
If this is a problem for the visually impaired folks, who are presumed to
have more or less "normal" cognition, how much greater then is the problem
when we are talking about people with different or impaired cognition?
Back with an early Apple IIe machine, I went out on a limb and bought a
speech synthesizer for a visually impaired student with a very low IQ. Not
only did my girl hate the synthesized speech (worse than she hated the
talking books she got from the state), but it didn't enable her to use
"normal" level materials for instruction either. Text to speech doesn't
work for everyone we could hope it would, but I shudder to think of the
consequences if it hadn't been developed. The speech synthesizer we had
would only read text files from a disk, not from the Internet (although
there really wasn't much K-12 content on the Internet back then except on
mailing lists).
Anne
Anne L. Pemberton
apembert@crosslink.net
Enabling Support Foundation
Some members had difficulty understanding why speech to text software was
not a solution, though an aid.
Audio tapes are no replacement for what I know as Ant and Bee stories, the
ones with occassional pictures replacing words.
The idea is to provide a demanding but not impossible environment, as people
have a range of ability, a variety of approaches is essential.
Sorry this took a while to surface.
jay@peepo.com
Please send us links to your favourite websites.
Our site www.peepo.com is a drive thru.
When you see a link of interest, click on it.
Move the mouse to slow down.
It is a graphical aid to browsing the www.
We value your comments.
Jay::
Al::
One has to distinguish objectives.
The accessibility guidelines are targeted to a scenario where the objective
is to inform, and one does not care if it is too easy to understand. This
is not ideal, just actual.
The pedagogical scenario, where it is desired to challenge the reader
enough, but not too much -- that scenario is addressed by the teaching
machines from CAST but not by the guidelines from the WAI. This is a more
advanced objective requiring greater subtlety. It can be satisfied by
giving managed access to the wealth of media-redundant information required
in the ideal universally-accessible document. This is access with
resistance, to build skills where they can be developed.
Note that there is a whole thread to be developed on how excess ease of
comprehension makes content boring, and artfully modulated difficulty in
processing the message can be entertaining and add interest. This is one
of the reasons why commercial speech is not maximally accessible. It has
to create interest and not just deliver information.
The teaser for an article is a teaser; it connects with the reader and then
is coy. It creates the impression that if you read the full article you
will know more than you know now. Often there is nothing there. But the
introduction or promotional blurb has to create both connection and
disconnection to motivate the next step.
Al
PS: terminology:
"Ant and Bee stories" -- a _rebus_, if you tolerate obscure words.
"One has to distinguish objectives.
The accessibility guidelines are targeted to a scenario where the objective
is to inform, and one does not care if it is too easy to understand. This
is not ideal, just actual."
"Inform" assumes that one is communicating, And that the knowledge is being
transferred. This means that it is intended to be pedagogical, although you
claim that the guidelines are not.
Perhaps you mean to say that the audience is atypical and that is precisely
what I am objecting to.
On a more positive note I have heard that the Education and Outreach Group
are developing an alternative approach.
jay@peepo.com
Please send us links to your favourite websites.
Our site www.peepo.com is a drive thru.
When you see a link of interest, click on it.
Move the mouse to slow down.
It is a graphical aid to browsing the www.
We value your comments.
I know that one can call them both instruction, but there is still a
difference to be observed.
Let me try again. Would you distinguish between subcategories of pedagogy
to impart facts or to cultivate skills? To cultivate skills, you want to
challenge the learner some, but not more than they can ovecome. To impart
facts, it is not so important to create challenges along the way.
You raised the "Ant and Bee stories" as an example of good pedagogical
literature. Because they challenge the reader a little and not too much.
I am saying that for the guidelines as they stand now, that is too
sophisticated a criterion.
The guidelines are quite simple, and aim to avoid the worst cases where
things get really difficult or impossible. Applying a challenge that is
not too small as well as not too large is beyond the state of consensus
knowledge of the group as it published WCAG 1.0. It is a very real
challenge for educational materials. But that is art beyond the
contemporary state of knowledge of accessibility.
Al
Not what I meant. I was talking about what kind of knowledge is, and is
not, contained in the guidelines. Knowledge of how not to be too difficult
is contained in these guidelines. Knowledge of how to be just difficult
enough is not.
They are going to try to make the guidelines more understandable. But not
to change what they mean.
Al
"The power of the web is in its universality. Access by everyone regardless
of disability is an essential aspect"
Quoted in the UK Guardian Newspaper Thursday 15 July.
It is funny kind of Universality that excludes non-readers
The Guidelines make frequent reference to learning difficulty, but do not
give advice, whereas they do give advice for helping visitors who are blind.
Moreover the 'discussions' in great part are concerned with specifics (ie
alt text)that directly affect the users experience.
Unless people start making an effort to understand issues concerning LD it
is unlikely that progress will be made. For all the strengths at the WAI
your efforts and arguments are lack lustre, and show a lack of concern.
jay@peepo.com
Please send us links to your favourite websites.
Our site www.peepo.com is a drive thru.
When you see a link of interest, click on it.
Move the mouse to slow down.
It is a graphical aid to browsing the www.
We value your comments.
