to follow up on what Jon Gunderson said:
1) that any graphics used as bullets have the alt text "Item" With a
character to cause a pause after the word.
I think "item" is needed. Is there any way to get the item number in the
specification. Like item 1, item 2, item 3.
This helps people keep track of where they are.
Are you in touch with anyone currently using Laura Eaves's
extended numbering functions in Lynx?
Numbering items in an UL is a bit like numbering sections in a
document which only has Hn tags in it. The browser can get this
into the User Interface without the author putting it in the ALT.
Using ALT to achieve this has a less than rosy prognosis, in my
gut reaction.
This is also an application scenario of interest in the CSS2 review
context. If we get numbering tooled up to the extent the Braille
users would like, I think one could write a style that will cause
OL entries to be numbered.
-- Al Gilman
I agree completely with Al's comments. For the present, if item numbers
are desired, the best solution is to take advantage of the OL element. CSS
numbering should allow the user's default style sheet to number UL
elements automatically if desired.
CSS also allows audio cues to be associated with list items (LI elements),
thus overcoming any difficulties that readers may experience in
identifying the beginning of each item. Of course, authors need to use the
correct markup, and it is the purpose of the guidelines to encourage them
to do so.
When accessing the web via a braille display, I would prefer that bullets
indicating list items be represented by the asterisk character, as in Lynx
2.7.1. In such a case, it would be best to use the UL and LI elements, and
a null ALT value if the bullet is to be represented by an image. For
example:
li img alt="" src="bullet.jpg" Item 1
Unfortunately, braille displays are often overlooked when designing HTML
access guidelines. This situation also indicates that the sooner audio and
braille style sheet mechanisms are implemented, the easier it will be for
HTML authors to design their documents in such a way as to meet everyone's
needs.
If the word "item" preceded every item in a list, this would undoubtedly
be detrimental to the efficiency with which the document could be read via
a 40-cell braille display, even if the software is configured to apply
braille contractions automatically.
The fact that solutions which are appropriate for speech synthesizers are
not necessarily convenient when when using a braille display, and that
such conventions are different again from those which are most effective
on screen or in print, highlights the need for a flexible and
sophisticated style sheet mechanism for controlling the presentation of
HTML documents.
