The following comments are divided up into substantial and editorial
comments (editorial last).
--- owlsas-rdfcore-datatype-denotation
Section 2.1
"In OWL, as in RDF, a datatype denotes the set of data values that is
the value space for the datatype."
- Not true of RDF? A datatype can be treated as a class in RDF - the
class corresponds to its value space, but not the same thing. Strike "as
in RDF"
--- owlsas-rdfcore-equvalent-class
2.3.2.1 BNF for axiom
'EquivalentClasses(' description { description } ')'
Other 'equivalentX' productions specify a minimum of two equivalent Xs.
The reason for this production is nonobvious and should be spelled out.
We also note that the rule given in section 3.3 does not cover the
(semantically empty) case of n=1 for the EquivalentClasses(d1 ... dn)
production.
--- owlsas-rdfcore-owl-vocabulary
Section 3.1
Definition of OWL Vocabulary
(Clarification sought) I may have misunderstood, but shouldn't
"rdf:type" be excluded from the definitions of the various "V_x"s ?
--- owlsas-rdfcore-unnamed-ontologies
Section 3.4
Unnamed ontologies: informally, multiple Annontations on an unnamed
ontology don't need to be satisfied by the same "x" according to this
table. Don't think that's right.
--- owlsas-rdfcore-ontology-component-association
Section 4.1
While the abstract syntax naturally associates (via syntactic
nesting) ontologies with all their directives, no such association is
made in the RDF graph expression of the ontology (apart from
Annotations). Therefore, multiple ontologies expressed as an RDF graph
cannot be extracted to produce the component ontologies in the abstract
syntax.
--- owlsas-rdfcore-rdf-translation-opaque
Section 4.1
From a presentation point of view, the translation table in 4.1 seems
overly opaque. However, an alternative compact expression of the
translation into RDF Graph form is not immediately obvious.
The following comments are all editorial: since they are trivial, no IDs
have been assigned.
In general, the presentation of the BNF for the abstract syntax is very
well done; the "literate" style is to be commended.
Section 2.2
"The second kind of fact is used to make individual identifiers be the
same or pairwise distinct." Nit - same/distinct denotations?
2.3 Axioms
[editorial] WG - working group; don't hyphenate "more-neutral"
2.3.1.3
[editorial] "The only information in axiom for them is annotations."
Insert "the".
2.3.1.3 &amp; throughout
[editorial] suggest "dataValuedPropertyID" and
"individualValuedPropertyID" (different intercapping)
2.3.2.3 Para 1.
[editorial] "As well," suggest "In addition," instead.
3.1
Definition of datatype theory
[editorial] stumbled over the parenthetical "(non-disjoint)" - is it
necessary? Would suggest to strike.
3.1
[editorial, accessibility] This is a nit, but when I first viewed this
document, the "I"s and "l"s were indistinguishable. Maybe italicise the
"l"?
3.2 and elsewhere
[nit] It may be in standard use, in which case ignore this comment, but
the terminology 'oneOf' for sets of singletons doesn't seem to express
(when read informally in Engligh) its intended behaviour. If it's not
too late would replace with 'singletons' or some other term.
3.2 [nit]
restriction(p x_1 ... x_n)
Suddest adding ", for n  1" since n=1 cases are dealt with below this.
4.
[typo] "abstarct" in the first para.
5.1 and throughout
[editorial, nit++] inconsistent capitalisation rules applied to
headings. Would capitalise "Universe" here. This barely qualifies as a
comment, apologies.
5.2, the "Note". The term "constructor" is not defined in the document
and is only used in one other place.
Some additional comments from RDFCore are to be supplied by Brian
McBride shortly.
[ Proposed reply to
Thank you for your detailed comments. Here is a reply that handles most of
them, and defers one until more work is performed. Let us know if this is
sufficient for now.
Yes, not really true of RDF. I will remove this phrase.
I will add
In OWL DL it is permitted to have only one description in an
span class="syntax" EquivalentClasses /span construct.
This allows ontologies to include descriptions that are not connected to
anything, which is not semantically useful, but makes allowances for
less-than-optimal editing of ontologies.
Actually it does. The translation would just be the translation of d1.
In this section there is no need to exclude the RDF or RDFS vocabulary.
The next section does all the exclusion (see disallowed vocabulary from
RDF, for example).
Correct. It is not right. Fixing it will require some surgery to Section
3.4. This may need further discussion in the working group.
Yes. This is the case. However, in the absence of a mechanism for making
associations between RDF resources and RDF statements it is not possible to
do this.
Agreed.
Thanks.
This would be more precise, but I don't think that it would be any more
readable.
Changed.
Changed instead to ``axioms''.
The intercapping was chosen to alude to ``data-valued property ID''
instead of ``data valued property ID''.
Good change.
This probably was a holdover from something that talked about XML Schema
datatypes and is no longer useful. It is removed.
Changed to ``v''.
This would require a substantive change.
^^ gg [nit]
Actually, using this for n=1 is benign, and thus I can treat the
clarification addition as an editorial change.
Fixed.
Fixed. :-)
... and the other use is not very good.
I've changed the other use to ``and restrictions''.
I've changed this to ``construct descriptions''.
Please reply as to whether the proposed changes are acceptable. We will
let you know when the one outstanding comment has been discussed.
Peter F. Patel-Schneider
Bell Labs Research
Lucent Technologies
Here is a reply for the unanswered issue in your message.
The newest editor's draft of S&amp;AS (of 4 June 2003, available at
that should satisfactorily address this issue.
The basic change is that the interpretation of Ontology Annotations is done
in an environment where there is a resource for the ontology, named or not
as evidenced by the following wording:
there is some o &amp;isin; R such that
for each Ontology Annotation of the form
span class="syntax" Annotation( /span p v span class="syntax" ) /span ,
o,S(v) &amp;isin; ER(p)
and that if O has name n, then
S(n) = o;
Please reply to this message as to whether this response is satisfactory,
copying public-webont-wg@w3.org. Again, thank you for your comments.
Peter F. Patel-Schneider
Bell Labs Research
Lucent Technologies
I'm sorry for the delay in responding; I missed this the first time
around. This is a satisfactory change, thanks.
jan grant, ILRT, University of Bristol. http://www.ilrt.bris.ac.uk/
Lambda calculus? I hardly know 'er!
OK, for bookkeeping purposes, this thread is closed.
Professor James Hendler hendler@cs.umd.edu
Director, Semantic Web and Agent Technologies 301-405-2696
Univ of Maryland, College Park, MD 20742 *** 240-277-3388 (Cell)
