I'm very new to the topic of XML Signature and I have therefore a rather simple question, which I couldn' solve myself by reading the spec. I wanted to look, if this topic was already discussed in your list, but the mailing-list archiev was down.
What I want to know is: How can I include the PKCS#7 Standard in an XML Signature? Do I have to use the http://www.w3.org/2000/09/xmldsig#rsa-sha1 URI?
wbr,
Roman Huditsch
I don't think that XML Signature is a replacement for PKCS#7/CMS. It
is an alternative which permits the signing of XML rather than of binary
with a leaning towards ASN.1. However, one possibly productive issue is
brought up by this thread. Is it reasonable to have a standard transform
of "binary" available, analogous to the existing "base64" transform? An
Reference containing an FTP URI can perfectly well point to a binary file
on the physical internet, which has not been encoded in base 64.
Tom Gindin
"Ed Simon" edsimon@xmlsec.com @w3.org on 05/16/2002 08:23:36 AM
Sent by: w3c-ietf-xmldsig-request@w3.org
Subject: Re: newbie Question about PKCS#7
I think the first question to be pondered is NOT "How?" but "Why?".
You can of course use XML Signature to sign a PKCS#7 blob just like you can
any other blob. But I think the implication of your email is that you are
looking for some standard specified way of combining PKCS#7 and XML
Signature. There isn't any. Generally, XML Signature should be seen as
the new way of doing digital signatures.
It may make sense to port existing PKCS#7-based applications to XML
Signature, but I doubt there would be any value trying to have a single
digital signature be a hybrid of both XML Signature and PKCS#7.
Ed
I'm very new to the topic of XML Signature and I have therefore a rather
simple question, which I couldn' solve myself by reading the spec. I
wanted to look, if this topic was already discussed in your list, but the
mailing-list archiev was down.
What I want to know is: How can I include the PKCS#7 Standard in an XML
Signature? Do I have to use the http://www.w3.org/2000/09/xmldsig#rsa-sha1
URI?
wbr,
Roman Huditsch
I'm didn't say that XML Signature is necessarily a replacement for PKCS#7.
What I am saying is that XML Signature is "the new way of doing digital
signatures" and that if one is introducing digital signatures into a system,
one should
seriously consider using XML Signature over PKCS#7.
Certainly, if a system is heavily ASN.1-oriented and where the subset of
digital signature functionality available in PKCS#7 is deemed satisfactory
for the foreseeable future, and the implementors really want to use PKCS#7,
I will not object. There may indeed be cases where PKCS#7 remains
preferable. But, in general (eg. not always), I think XML Signature should
be initially assumed to be the best alternative until proven otherwise for
application-layer security.
Perhaps I am misreading your email, but are you stating you don't think XML
Signature can sign binary data without adding a "binary" transform? If so,
I should point out that XML Signature today can sign binary data, and that
no "binary" transform is necessary. Indeed, the great thing is that a
single XML Signature can cover mulitple binary objects (either referenced or
enveloped (and base64-ed)).
Please correct me if I'm misinterpreting any part of your email.
Regards, Ed
It
can
