Hi,
Here is the FAQ I chose with Richard's help.
From the section "Writing source text":
QUESTION: "Is it a good idea to put translatable text in style sheets?"
Directions for the ANSWER:
Identify type of content to be handled by style sheet:
- Repetitive.
- Linguistically independent.
- Not context sensitive.
- Examples: Footnotes, headers,
Describe general benefits:
Maintenance, reuse, consistency
Conditions required:
- Localize style sheets first
- Make sure T&amp;L processes and tools handle style sheets
Other related topics:
- That might not be the only data to localize. Font, quotes,...
might also require l10n.
- CSS specifications concerned: 'content' property
All input and feedback welcomed.
Fran?ois Richard
Translation and Localization
HP Content Management Services
External: 33 (0)4 76 14 48 71
Hello Francois,
I think this is an excellent choice of topic area!
However, I would suggest to split things up into several smaller
pieces, e.g.:
- XSLT vs. CSS
- technical aspects vs. design aspects vs. organisatorial aspects
- Text vs. other localization issues
- fixed text (e.g. one stylesheet for each language) vs. more
advanced techniques
This will make it easier to create an FAQ quickly, will make
it easier for readers to understand a single topic, and will
give us other opportunities for more FAQs.
Regards, martin.
I would like to understand which principles are being applied here.
We seem to be asking about text and then working back to advice that
applies to any element that requires localization.
e.g. font, color, images, etc.
style sheet content whether translatable text or anything else is best
if it is repetitive, context-insensitive, etc.
(context-sensitive isnt quite the right wording, since clearly headers,
footers, classes, etc. are context...)
The benefits are the same whether text or other.
conditions-are the same.
GEO should have some discussion about localization of style sheets and
what is really involved. Also I have been grappling lately with whether
language or culture sensitive information should be in one style sheet
with some way of distinguishing which contents is used with which
language, or just different sheets for different languages.
So I guess I am asking, is there a presumption of an overall methodology
for localizing styles, if so what is it, or should we be describing
approaches and what is involved in their localization first, and then
get to the finer point of translatable text, and how translatable text
is different than other aspects of CSS?
Fran?ois, I hope this doesn't read like I am criticizing the question.
The question is a good one. I am unaware if there is any agreement or
presumption of what to do with style sheets in the context of
localization, and maybe I just need some orientation first.
What references are there on this subject? I am aware of Yves Savourel
book, and R. Ishida and others have done some presentations about L10n
of XML, DTD and the like (I don't recall if they covered CSS.)
tex
Tex Texin cell: +1 781 789 1898 mailto:Tex@XenCraft.com
Xen Master http://www.i18nGuy.com
XenCraft http://www.XenCraft.com
Making e-Business Work Around the World
L10n of font, color, images could be part of "By the way..." section.
Embedding text in style sheets has more implication/risks on the overall
Translation and Localisation process than other localizable data.
The logic would be to warn reader of the FAQ about potential issue coming
down the pipe of the T&amp;L process. As such, the association of text within
style sheet carries a specific risk...
The corresponding extra condition on text (compared to other localizable
data) would be the "linguistic independence" (do not know how to call it):
the text needs to be transalte-able isolated from the main text...
I did not checked yet. But the ones you mentioned are important for sure. Do
not know if CSS have been covered.
/Francois
