10. When I want to click on a local fragment, I hit click, then if I hit
page up or down I loose the "click activation", if I scroll then click, it
opens another blank dialog.
On Fri, 2 May 2003 15:23:59 -0400
One complaint about the Amaya accessibility was the impossibility
to leave the status "wait for click " without clicking.
Since the 8.0 release, the "wait for click " stops as soon as the user
hits a key and the user has to scroll by clicking in the scroll bar.
What do you suggest?
Irene.
Ir?ne Vatton INRIA Rh?ne-Alpes
INRIA ZIRST
e-mail: Irene.Vatton@inria.fr 655 avenue de l'Europe
Please note that there two problems here. First, for accessibility I want to
minimize my mousing. Is the complaint you speak of, for people you have
*incorrectly* entered the "wait for click" state? Perhaps escape key could
serve that function. In the past I've asked that he escape key be able to
exit various modes, or in particular to dismiss a pop-window (i.e. spell
checking when I'm done) so I don't have to resort to mousing in on the
"done" button. (Or at least provide some keyboard short cut keys for
replace, done, ignore, etc.)
Second, "wait for click" mode simply does not work according to any
interpretation of "work" I can come up with. If I scroll with the keyboard
it doesn't exit the "wait for click" mode, just starts a new blank prompt?!
If I then try to reclick again more often than not Amaya crashes. If I
don't even do the keyboard thing (but mouse only) and try to click on a
local fragment of another document, the link it produces is often to the
other document only and doesn't include the fragment, so I have to enter
that by hand! (This was present in 7.2 too).
These problems plus the weird behavior of removing spaces between word
adjacent to a href=".../ tags makes 8.0 very difficult to use. I've moved
back to Amaya 7.2 for the time being.
On Fri, 9 May 2003 10:30:16 -0400
Okay now Esc or Delete pops up the dialogue form.
I cannot reproduce that weird behavior of removing spaces between words.
Irene.
Ir?ne Vatton INRIA Rh?ne-Alpes
INRIA ZIRST
e-mail: Irene.Vatton@inria.fr 655 avenue de l'Europe
