I have built a form which has a submit button on it.
If the user activates the button and hasn't filled out
the form correctly, a javascript 'alert' pop-up is
presented to the user, giving more information.
This appears to be in breach of checkpoint 10.1
Would it be acceptable to provide a warning message,
something like 'Submitting this form may result in a
pop-up dialog being displayed' before the submit
button, in the same color as the background?
Thus (I believe) making the text available to screen
reader users but not to sighted users?
Regards
Graham Oliver
Do You Yahoo!?
Get email at your own domain with Yahoo! Mail.
This will show up on any device that cannot display colours or
doesn't understand the styling used to set the colours. It is
a known trick for stuffing keywords for search engines and may
result in the site being boycotted by major search engines.
One is expecting a major change in content when one submits a
form, so one of the main reasons for avoiding popups doesn't apply.
It also depends on how the screen reader gets its content - readers that are
too smart about colours (a useful feature) will realise that the text is
invisible and skip it. (given the way this is normally used to stuff keywords
in pages, it is not a bad practice).
Charles McCN
This will show up on any device that cannot display colours or
doesn't understand the styling used to set the colours. It is
a known trick for stuffing keywords for search engines and may
result in the site being boycotted by major search engines.
One is expecting a major change in content when one submits a
form, so one of the main reasons for avoiding popups doesn't apply.
Location: I-cubed, 110 Victoria Street, Carlton VIC 3053, Australia
(or W3C INRIA, Route des Lucioles, BP 93, 06902 Sophia Antipolis Cedex, France)
Hi All,
You could try using a spacer image and then put your message in the alt
text. I don't know how that will behave in the screenreader but it may help
get around the problem with the search engine.
Anthony
reader users
This will show up on any device that cannot display colours or
doesn't understand the styling used to set the colours. It is
a known trick for stuffing keywords for search engines and may
result in the site being boycotted by major search engines.
One is expecting a major change in content when one submits a
form, so one of the main reasons for avoiding popups doesn't apply.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA1
Perhaps not, since putting spider-bait in alt attributes is just as
old a search-engine as hiding stuff using colour.
On the other hand there isn't really anyway I can think of for
spiders to know whether they are being baited unless there is a lot
of repetition of words other than "a", "the", etc.
Spider-baiting in itself is quite a problem for users of text,
whether sighted text-only users or users of enabling technologies.
I've quite often come across sites with little for a text-only user
to read but the keywords they want to be listed over repeated 50
times.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: PGPfreeware 6.5.3 for non-commercial use http://www.pgp.com
iQA/AwUBOqisP4Fpv9f1Mr0YEQJ20ACfZipLrAQKdrmIxDnc1fw5B73J8jIAoKfk
LAMLZ0nPZI7uZoUf08H0hjIt
=vDlV
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
