The definition and use of priorities in this document is not consistent with
their use in WCAG 1.0.
For example, checkpoint 7.3 does not meet WCAG standards for Priority 1,
but is
rather in WCAG terms a Priority 2 (document effectively useless, not
completely
unusable).
This is a thorny issue, as it is not clear that the priorities and conformance
scheme in WCAG 1.0 is the best possible approach in this area.? But doing
something that looks the same but isn't the same has problems of its own.?
This issue might benefit from some coordination outside the Working Group.
Al
Usage in headers.? Comments in response to the last call request for comments
have been classified S1, S2, or E based on the following rough scale:
S1: Substantive matter of the first (highest) criticality or importance to the
mission of the document.? The standard set is ineffective, the document is
self
contradictory, etc.
S2: Substantive matter of a somewhat lower criticality.? The document is hard
to comprehend, does not align well with related WAI documents, etc.
E: Editorial matters.? Not regarded as substantive.
Re:
User Agent Accessibility Guidelines 1.0
W3C Working Draft 23 October 2000
?? This version:
[9] http://www.w3.org/TR/2000/WD-UAAG10-20001023 http://www.w3.org/TR/2000/W
D-UAAG10-20001023
Nor are the definitions in ATAG 1.0 the same as those in WCAG 1.0
[Priority 1] If the checkpoint is essential to meeting the goals.
[Priority 2] If the checkpoint is important to meeting the goals.
[Priority 3] If the checkpoint is beneficial to meeting the goals.
I disagree: if you can't navigate to the active elements, how do you
activate them? That makes it P1.
I believe we used the Priority scheme in a manner largely consistent
with WCAG and that it worked quite well. Sometimes it's possible
to assign a priority on a "logical" basis (i.e., it's clear that
if you don't do this, access will be impossible). At other times,
there is more judgment involve (e.g., checkpoint 10.1 is a P1
for Level Double-A conformance of documentation to WCAG 1.0 because
the WG felt that two levels were necessary and didn't choose
a relative priority scheme. Or, checkpoint 6.1 is a P1 for *all*
accessibility since otherwise they may never be implemented --
the UAWG decided to "take the lead" here).
- Ian
Ian Jacobs (jacobs@w3.org) http://www.w3.org/People/Jacobs
Cell: +1 917 450-8783
with
http://www.w3.org/TR/2000/REC-ATAG10-20000203/#priorities http://www.w3.org
/TR/2000/REC-ATAG10-20000203/#priorities
AG::
Streaming play. Check out pwWebSpeak. If you just play the page through, the
focus auto tracks to the closest active element in the recent past of the play
stream. You can activate an element any time from [when you have entered it?]
to when you have passed it but are still within a given finite grace period.
This is just "access to all content" and "provide activation methods
associated
with recognized active content." It does not require any navigation at all.
In other words, isolating the focus so that activation affects a given link
under certain conditions is a P1. But navigation is not. Navigation is an
optimization that affects the efficiency of use. It is very important. It is
not WCAG.P1. "Play it to me" is the most fundamental mode in audio access,
and
Navigation is a more exotic, less essential, mode of relating to the content.
Ask Lloyd Rasmussen for more info on this point. Lots of talking book
customers just pop it in and play it. Navigation is mode #2.
You don't have to recognize the 'active elements' as elements to activate
them,
just recognize by the LINK pronounced before them that there is an activation
opportunity. One doesn't need to know the end of the LINK nor dwell on the
link in order to meet P1 levels of functionality (and above).
This reveals that I have not been regarding streaming play as 'navigation,'
although it does continuously move through the [default tour of] the
content of
the document. I may need to adjust my bin structure on this, but we should
cover it in writing if this is the fix.
One resolution is to clearly state that continuous play is one of the
navigation methods which may be used to meet this requirement.
The traceback of the logic is sorta like:
The user must have access to activating any method associated with any active
element.
If activating the method is dependent on having the focus, then there must
be a
way to get focus to each such element.
Navigation is a technique for getting the focus to the element. It is not
necessarily the only way.
The abstract requirement is that the user must be able to discover, isolate
[focus] and activate any method of active element. This can happen in an
abstract point-set sense, without any required reference to any more
structured
topology or navigation with respect to that structure.
This is related to a comment I failed to write that "The P1 requirement for
content search is to search all content. It does not involve any concept of
'forward,' 'backward,' or 'starting at' in its minimal form."
