-- give an idea of how many steps there are in the process on
the first page
OK, changed "this step by step form" in "this four-step form" in the
intro text.
-- use email callback to verify the email address of the user?
This thing makes it (too?) easy to forge a report on behalf
of somebody else.
Good idea, plus check the email address of the author, while we're
there, to reduce the bounces.
-- privacy statement? You're asking for quite a bit of info.
What are you promising *not* to do with it?
Sure. Where should it be ? off the first page or when we ask stuff
(step 3 more likely).
-- hmm... I expected it to be semi-automated. I'd like the
machine to make a guess at the report. Here are some
things that look automatable:
-- missing ALTs
-- check HTML validity
-- notice that there are no imagemaps so that checkpoint is n/a
-- determine which browser the user is using
(which shouldn't prevent them from changing it,
in case their doing the report with a different
browser from the one they used to do their review)
Ah... I guess this isn't so much of a general review
tool as a tool to facilitate problem reporting. So I guess
I just got the wrong impression.
well, there is Bobby for that, this is more human oriented.
-- I suggest a link from the "mobility imparied access"
subjective rating section to some background about it;
I don't know how to judge mobility impared access.
The "not rated" option is good.
that's the idea, you don't have a problem, you don't report anything.
-- in the mail message, under "The reviewer found the
following accessibility problems" you don't say
what the impact of, e.g. "Missing or inappropriate
alternative text for an Image or Animation".
Yes, they can follow the link, but you could provide
more motivation for them to do so than just the
fact that one reader was inconvenienced.
I appreciate the effort to keep the report short,
but one sentence describing (at least the most significant
part of) the impact of the improper markup seems worthwhile.
I really want the report to be as compact as possible.
What others think ?
DD:: "I really want the report to be as compact as possible. What others
think?"
WL: The terser, the better. If you want a bunch of explanations, put
them at the place from which one discovers this form.
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
Agreed. Like the current format of clicking on links for more detailed
explanations.
-Brian
26,500+ EV miles since 5/97! See web page:
