Hi,
A question I keep running into is whether forms are accessible or not.
Some aspects to take in consideration are:
1. If some blind computer users can access forms, are they accessible?
2. If a person has a preferred screen reader which doesn't work with
forms, are they accessible?
3. If it takes blind computer users three times longer to use forms
than sighted users, are forms accessible?
4. If blind users make more errors using forms than sighted users,
are forms accessible?
If forms are not considered accessible, what are the implications for
all those applications which let users interact with online databases?
Are all these applications inaccessible if forms are the only interface
provided? Does this mean that for online systems, non-form based
interfaces must also be provided?
If forms are considered inaccessible, what are the implications
under 504, 508, ADA etc?
Scott
The HTML 4.0 draft allows labels and keyboard commands to be associated
with each item in a form. The WAI HC working group has also proposed an
important enhancement to the SELECT element, whereby options can be
grouped into hierarchically organised lists. If all of these features are
widely used by authors and supported in braille and speech-based HTML
software, there should be no further accessibility problems with respect
to forms.
At present, I use Lynx version 2.7.1 and have not encountered any
access barriers related to forms. Some of them are slow and cumbersome to
complete, and I hope this shortcoming will be resolved by (1) the ability
to select items in a form by way of keyboard commands; and (2) the
hierarchical grouping of options as proposed by the WAI.
Hi Scot!
At different times in my life, I might give different answers to this
question, but let's consider a couple of things. I may be stating the
obvious here, but please bear with me. Forms are variably accessible
depending on 1 the product, and 2 the reciever.
the product is the form and what has generated it. the reciever is the
"browser" if you will and the interface to it. these interact with each
other in subtle ways and a number of mixes emmerge. The purest
deffinition for access in this case is can a form be read, comprehended
and compleeted by anyone who has the mental cpacity to do so. the best
way to insure this as far as I can tell is to make the form a simple fill
in the blank rather than having buttons which imply and require the
application of something on the recievers end which may or may not be
present.
I hope this answers your enquiry or at least takes us in an appropriate
direction.
I tell people not to redesign their forms, just provide an alternate means
of access to them so that they may be serviced. for instance, can I email
my response or quiry? can I phone it in or mail it in?
cn I ask for a form in email which is structured differently but provides
the same data?
Thanks!
Hands-On-Technolog(eye)s
touching the internet
voice: 1-(301) 949-7599
poehlman@clark.net
ftp://ftp.clark.net/pub/poehlman
A couple of thoughts on Scott's question of when forms are
accessible.
I think the question needs to be "how accessible" rather than
"accessible yes or no".
One factor is how many people are affected. For example, if a page
is not accessible with Explorer and Jaws but is accessible with other
software (e.g. Lynx and JAWS, or pwWebSpeak) the "degree of
accessibility" depends on statistics how many people use Explorer.
Of course, we don't want to ignore a rarely used setup if it is
essential to a particular group of people, e.g. Braille by people who
are deaf and blind.
Does anyone know of statistics on how many people have what setups
with what capabilities? And, for little used setups, how possible it
would be for those users to switch to the more popular setups (e.g.
not possible for deaf individual to switch from Braille to speech)?
Len
Hi, Al
What I originally brought up is whether forms could be considered accessible
to blind people. Some aspects are:
1. If some blind computer users can access forms, are they accessible?
2. If a person has a preferred screen reader which doesn't work with
forms, are they accessible?
3. If it takes blind computer users three times longer to use forms
than sighted users, are forms accessible?
4. If blind users make more errors using forms than sighted users,
are forms accessible?
Blind users have a wide range of success using buttons on forms depending
on the combination of screen reader and browser.
You mentioned Lynx as being accessible. However, suppose that the form
uses Javascript. I think that Lynx would have problems.
If a legal challenge was needed in the future, on what basis could it be
stated that web pages are (or are not) accessible?
Scott
to follow up on what Scott Luebking said:
Probably not, ipso facto, their inclusion or exclusion of forms.
That question is too broad to have a yes/no answer. As you said,
We want to move that distribution until it is clustered at the
"high degree of success" end. To do that maybe we should try to
learn what it is that does and doesn't work. It's not so simple
as being a form or not being a form. We probably need to take a
variety of cases and examine them in more detail. Then maybe we
can learn how to discipline both the composition of the forms and
the behavior of the user equipment so that usability is the norm,
not pot luck.
I imagine that is what the groups working with Jon, Chuck and
Gregg are setting out to do.
-- Al Gilman
Hi, Al
Yes, I pretty much agree with you. The combination of browser and access
technology is variable in providing successful access to different types of
forms. This variability is frustrating for web site developers who want
to make their web sites accessible.
Unfortunately, the current murkiness of whether forms are or not accessible
probably means that it will be harder for an individual to prove that a web
site using forms provided by entities covered by ADA Title II or Title
is not in compliance.
Scott
