One of the things I would like to have said, had I been a little more
awake, is that I think that compliance with a DTD is a priority one item,
for reasons outlined before by Daniel and Jason as well as myself.
(By 7.30 I was thinking about breakfast, and wondering if I should keep a
little quieter)
Charles
Agree. Actually, this is not just a guideline, but the requirement by
the HTML specification. Otherwise, such document is invalid.
One thing I'm particularly disappointed is that none of the previous
versions of Page Author Guidelines themselves are conforming to the DTD.
This is really bad. If we don't follow our guideline, who else would
follow?
Furthermore, "How to Release a W3C Technical Report" [1] says:
[1] URL:http://www.w3.org/Guide/Reports.html
W3C Technical Reports Style
The authoritative version of a document must be a conforming HTML 4.0,
3.2, or 2.0 document. See the W3C HTML Validation Service. Technical
reports should follow the Styleguide for Online Hypertext as well.
A technical report must not have any broken links.
Bear in mind that our reports are used as world-class primary
reference material. Readability across a wide variety of browsers and
platforms is far more important than using jazzy features. At some
point, what we write becomes History.
WAI Accessibilty Guidelines should indeed be world-class primary reference
material. We must be very serious about the markup of our guidelines.
Otherwise, people will be dubious of our work.
Regards,
Masayasu Ishikawa / mimasa@w3.org
W3C - World Wide Web Consortium
I would like to reiterate most emphatically the importance of ensuring
that the guidelines themselves meet the highest standards of markup.
Conformity to the HTML 4.0 strict DTD would be a necessary, though not a
sufficient condition for this requirement to be met: there should be no
&amp;nbsp; character entities or any other characters used unnecessarily, the
markup should convey structure rather than presentation, the table should
use HEADERS, SCOPE, and SUMMARY attributes appropriately, etc. The best
means of achieving this result is to edit the markup by hand or with an
SGML editor (not a web authoring tool). I understand that SGML editors
verify compliance with the DTD as one makes changes to the document and
can help to ensure that the structure is sound.
Please note that in making these remarks, I am not implicitly criticising
previous versions of the document. To be frank, I haven't taken the time
to examine the markup in detail, but this task must be thoroughly
undertaken as part of the preparation of the next draft.
Indeed. We should lead by example.
I'm maintaining /Mobile Web area at W3C, and all documents under
/Mobile are conforming to HTML 4.0 Strict DTD (I never publish
Web pages without validation!). And also, I'd love to make our pages
conforming to WAI Page Author Guidelines. Mobile Access does
need accessibility consideration, so input from WAI is greatly
appreciated.
If you need help, I can validate and fix the documents. Now I'm
fixing up markup errors of previous press releases (under /Press ).
If necessary, I'll do the same work for /WAI as well.
Regards,
Masayasu Ishikawa / mimasa@w3.org
W3C - World Wide Web Consortium
