Hey,
Since we're talking about proxies....
Im curious to know what others think the right thing
according to the intent of the 1.1 spec to do is
in this situation:
If you have two chained proxy servers:
client - proxy1 - proxy2 - origin server
If proxy 2 challenges for proxy-authentication (in its realm),
should the challenge go back to the client if proxy1 doesnt intend
to satisfy the challenge ?
My understanding was that the intent was that this situation was
to be covered. By this I mean a client can auth to a proxy up the chain.
The spec is somewhat ambiguous, it says the proxy-auth headers are
hop-by-hop, but then mentions that chained proxy-auth can work.
My understanding has always been that proxy authentication is strictly
hop-by-hop. So proxy1 should not bump the authentication request up to
the client. After all, it's proxy1 that has a trust relationship with
proxy2, whereas the client may have no such relationship.
Dave Kristol
My recollection matchs DaveK's ... it was acknowledged at the time that
the proxy auth was hop-hop only and as I recall the WG rejected an attempt
to extend the protocol to accurately allow for proxy authentication thru
another proxy.
I believe there are cases where Josh's scenario would be valuable but it
isn't what was defined.
Dave Morris
Specifically, RFC 2616 says:
The HTTP access authentication process is described in "HTTP
Authentication: Basic and Digest Access Authentication" [43]. Unlike
WWW-Authenticate, the Proxy-Authenticate header field applies only to
the current connection and SHOULD NOT be passed on to downstream
clients. However, an intermediate proxy might need to obtain its own
credentials by requesting them from the downstream client, which in
some circumstances will appear as if the proxy is forwarding the
Proxy-Authenticate header field.
The HTTP access authentication process is described in "HTTP
Authentication: Basic and Digest Access Authentication" [43] . Unlike
Authorization, the Proxy-Authorization header field applies only to
the next outbound proxy that demanded authentication using the Proxy-
Authenticate field. When multiple proxies are used in a chain, the
Proxy-Authorization header field is consumed by the first outbound
proxy that was expecting to receive credentials. A proxy MAY relay
the credentials from the client request to the next proxy if that is
the mechanism by which the proxies cooperatively authenticate a given
request.
I don't see anything ambiguous about that. Proxy authentication appears
to be chained if the credentials are chained, but that is no different
than saying it is hop-by-hop. Being hop-by-hop does not imply that
the proxy cannot clue one side of the hop based on the other side's info.
The reason it is specified this way has been discussed many times before.
....Roy
