WOWG comments on the RDF Schema Document
We believe that the design of the language, as reflected in the LC
documents, is such that OWL can appropriately use RDF Schema and endorse
this design.
Raphael Volz of our group has prepared a detailed review of this document
which he will send to the RDF Core WG. The Web Ontology Working Group
agrees with the spirit of his review (except for the comments on section
4, which was only supported by part of the WG). We summarize our main
comments below:
i. Although this document is called RDF Schema we think that the title
"RDF Vocabulary Description Language" would be clearer, and make the
difference from XML Schema (used for validation) more evident.
I would support such a change (indeed, I thought this was our intent?).
ii. Although we did not reach consensus on this, several members felt that
it was unacceptable that two graphs that differ only in their rdfs:comment
content would not entail each other.
Aha! The rdfs:comment rubber hits the road! To my view, having G1 entail
G2, where G1 and G2 vary only in the [content of] rdfs:comment statements
would be a significant shift in my understanding of the intent of
rdfs:comment. But I also think that rdf:comment may be unfortunately
named, since I could imagine a view of rdfs:comment that is, by fiat, true
in all interpretations.
As specified, rdfs:comment might be understood as "informal definition"
rather than "something that might be said about". But the name suggests
the latter.
ALthough this impacts the definition of RDF, it does not do so in a way
that changes any existing software, so this might be a good time to
contemplate renaming rdfs:comment to (say) rdfs:intent, and changing the
semantics so that:
x rdfs:comment "some text"
is true in all RDFS-interpetations.
#g
Graham Klyne
WOWG comments on the RDF Schema Document
We believe that the design of the language, as reflected in the LC
documents, is such that OWL can appropriately use RDF Schema and
endorse this design.
Raphael Volz of our group has prepared a detailed review of this
document which he will send to the RDF Core WG. The Web Ontology
Working Group agrees with the spirit of his review (except for the
comments on section 4, which was only supported by part of the WG).
We summarize our main comments below:
i. Although this document is called RDF Schema we think that the
title "RDF Vocabulary Description Language" would be clearer, and
make the difference from XML Schema (used for validation) more
evident.
ii. Although we did not reach consensus on this, several members
felt that it was unacceptable that two graphs that differ only in
their rdfs:comment content would not entail each other.
If you read the Webont archives for 2003 you will see that there is a
multi-vehicle pileup, with rescue crews using cutters to try to get
the bodies out before the spilt diesel fuel catches fire.
Then why do we have rdfs:isDefinedBy as well as rdfs:comment??
I would be happy with that semantic change, though it strikes me as
damn silly. But Ian feels very strongly about this one, and I don't.
Pat
IHMC(850)434 8903 or (650)494 3973 home
40 South Alcaniz St.(850)202 4416 office
FL 32501???????????(850)291 0667 cell
phayes@ai.uwf.edu http://www.coginst.uwf.edu/~phayes
s.pam@ai.uwf.edu for spam
If this is not felt to be actively helpful, I withdraw the comment. I
don't feel strongly about it, and there is advantage in making fewer changes.
#g
WOWG comments on the RDF Schema Document
We believe that the design of the language, as reflected in the LC
documents, is such that OWL can appropriately use RDF Schema and endorse
this design.
Raphael Volz of our group has prepared a detailed review of this
document which he will send to the RDF Core WG. The Web Ontology
Working Group agrees with the spirit of his review (except for the
comments on section 4, which was only supported by part of the WG). We
summarize our main comments below:
i. Although this document is called RDF Schema we think that the title
"RDF Vocabulary Description Language" would be clearer, and make the
difference from XML Schema (used for validation) more evident.
ii. Although we did not reach consensus on this, several members felt
that it was unacceptable that two graphs that differ only in their
rdfs:comment content would not entail each other.
Graham Klyne
