Hi Ian and Jon,
In reviewing the February 10th version of the guidelines I came across a
few items that may need clarification.
Feb 10th version http://www.w3.org/WAI/UA/WD-WAI-USERAGENT-19990210/
1. When the term "override" is used in section 5.1, as in "override
animation rates", "audio playback rate", "font family", etc, does it mean
that the user agent should support the user's preferred value? I just
wonder if we should use the word control instead of override. The word
control appears in the introduction for this section.
2. Section 5.2.3 [Priority 3] When null alternative text has been defined,
suppress the rendering of the alternative representation.
I am not sure what this checkpoint means. Is rendering "null alternative
text" different from rending nothing or would the previous checkpoint,
5.2.2 "When no alternative text representation is available, indicate what
type of object is present." be invoked and the object type would be rendered?
3. Section 5.2.4 [Priority 1] Allow the user to choose from among
available audio tracks.
Would this checkpoint come into play when for example, one audio track has
captions and another does not? If so, wouldn't we need the same checkpoint
in the video section so users can choose among the videos with captions or
descriptions if available?
Kitch
Kitch,
The way the system works when it works well is that a graphic will be
displayed as graphic. But if it is purely decorative, it can be given an
alt="" parameter, which will suppress the [graphic] display.
This is a good approach, and the way these points should support. If the
author has inserted a null alt text, that is a statement that this should
*not* be rendered by indicating that there is anything here, since that
information may detract from the reading of the page.
Denis
Hi Kitch,
Thanks for the comments.
I will clarify this.
Denis' comment in this thread is accurate and I will
reword the related checkpoints as follows:
5.2.2: When no alternative text representation has
been specified, indicate what type of object is present.
5.2.3: When alternative text has been specified explicitly
as empty (i.e., an empty string), render nothing.
Please propose wording for an appropriate checkpoint to the list.
Thanks again,
- Ian
Ian Jacobs (jacobs@w3.org)
