Martin et al:
This is my presentation for this afternoon. Please let me know what time
and which number to call.
Best regards,
JJ-
781-472-6317
Signing off for the rest of the day. Hopfeully I'll be able to join you
on the call tomorrow morning.
arkin
Dear WS-CHOR team,
Im follow the very insightful discussions in this team as interesting in
/ teaching the subject of business collaborations.
However Im also a Swedish delegate of UN/CEFACT UMM/BPSS team and I feel
that I must point out that the presentation about BPSS given by
Jean-Jacques Dubray must be considered as his own view and not the view
of the UMM team or members such as me.
best regards
/anders
Absolutely and thanks for pointing this out! I invited Jean Jaques to give
his personal view.
Martin.
mm1: What is your view Anders, in the context of your area of expertise
and/or as a member of this team?
Thank you.
View of what Monica? You know my view of next maintenance release of
BPSS which I posted in appropriate BPSS team forum. I dont want to
burden this with out of scope issues.
I can share one view with you that may interest this groups and that is
how I prefer to create meta models. Its the same principle Ive used for
BPSS and CoreComponents.
I have a strong preference to create meta models based on MOF which is
the same meta meta model used to define UML. By using MOF I can create
java API's, XML Schema, reading writing source code automatically using
standardized specifications. Kind of nifty since all I have to do is
create one single file and the rest us generated automatically. The
manipilation java binary code is actually generated on te fly when
loading the metamodel. The best is that all is open source !
Im working with ArgoUML team to evolve the ArgoUML open source platform
into UML 2.0, MDA and MOF domain.
Hope there was something of value in there.
BTW has this group had a look at UML 2 as a foundation for the
specification ?
/anders
mm1: Your answer below is what I was looking for: (1) Rationale for
consideration of MOF, (2) Your work and the ongoing work of UML 2.0
mm1: If you raise concerns, explanations such as these will be helpful
for the group to evaluate what formalisms they deem appropriate for
their area of interest.
Thanks.
Another big advantage of using MOF is that you can readily store the
corresponding definitions (e.g. choreography definitions) in a MOF
compliant repository which are standard components.
There is also very little constraints (as I understand it) to take a
metamodel and make it MOF compliant.
Jean-Jacques
From: public-ws-chor-request@w3.org
[mailto:public-ws-chor-request@w3.org]
On Behalf Of Monica J. Martin
Sent: Freitag, 20. Juni 2003 09:28
Subject: Re: FW: BPSS_f2f_june03.ppt
used
is
create
automatically.
when
Its simpler than one thinks, Personally I used Poseidon UML tool (free)
to create a UML 15 model for BPSS and CoreComponents. Then I ran a tool
UML2MOF to generate/translate the MOF metamodel.
A well though out metamodel is usually easy to translate, once one
handles relations/associations properly.
In the ArgoUML team were working towards MOF and UML2 compliance.
/anders
