Open Alta Vista page with Amaya works fine.
Querying Alta Vista from there returns the Alta Vista page in another
windows instead of the answers.
Hello Anne Marie,
In our previous episode, Anne Marie Vercoustre said:
Yes, it's a known limitation. It happens because Amaya opens a new window
if you modified the current document (to avoid your losing your
modifications). With forms it's the same: type in some text in an
input zone, and Amaya thinks the your document has been modified.
This is something that will be corrected soon.
Hope this is of help,
-Jose
Maybe Amaya needs to have to concept of a write-protected page? And
since "write-protected" is not one of the attributes returned on a
page, maybe you want to use a regexp to set this attribute. If it's a
page off my server, I can modify it. Otherwise it gets set to
write-protected.
By the way, I've got an edit.cgi and edit-upload.cgi, which let you
upload pages to a server. Might this be useful to the Amaya project?
-russ nelson@crynwr.com http://www.crynwr.com/~nelson
Crynwr Software sells network driver support | PGP ok
521 Pleasant Valley Rd. | +1 315 268 1925 voice | The more corrupt the state,
Hi Russ,
The problem I described about forms is not the one you're talking about :-)
Rather, it comes from the duality of having both an editor and a browser.
Where's the line separating those functionalities?
Actually, the solution is not very complicated, but requires some time
to think about what's the best way to program it. Anyway, this limitation
will be soon eliminated.
An easier solution: let the user toggle at will between browser and editor
mode.
I wrote a PUT script which you can access from the Amaya user's manual [1].
I am currently revising it to make it HTTP/1.1 compliant.
How do the scripts you propose differ from a PUT script? What's the
difference between edit.cgi and edit-upload.cgi?
I propose we take this script track of the Amaya list and use
instead some person-to-person email between you and me.
Cheers!
-Jose
About the same as the difference between vi and view.
-russ nelson@crynwr.com http://www.crynwr.com/~nelson
Crynwr Software sells network driver support | PGP ok
521 Pleasant Valley Rd. | +1 315 268 1925 voice | The more corrupt the state,
