These are for the Option 1 and Option 3, I will keep those names.
Both options:
PROPOSE reopen
pfps-08 reagle-01 reagle-02
then
... (below)
then
propose close
pfps-08 reagle-01 reagle-02
accepting all three comments.
Option 1:
PROPOSE
XML Literals are as in the working drafts prior to November 2002, in
which it was not a typed literal, but a special sort of literal,
with the changes made as a result of the reagle-01 and reagle-02 issues.
(i,e. exc-c14n performed in the syntax document)
Typed literals to exclude the language tag in the abstract syntax.
editors of Syntax, Concepts, Test and Semantics actioned to come back with
text, based on current editors drafts, and last version before we switched
to the rdf:XMLLiteral type, for the group approval.
Option 3:
PROPOSE
Typed literals, including XML Literal, to exclude the language tag in
the abstract syntax.
XML Literals to be refactored by deleting the rdf-wrapper text from
concepts and putting it into syntax (probably in para 7.2.17).
Add the following implementation note (or similar) to syntax.
Change NTriples in test cases to show explicit rdf-wrapper for all
XMLLiterals.
editors of Syntax, Concepts, Test and Semantics actioned to come back with
text, based on current editors drafts, and issue resolution for the group
approval.
Suggested implementation note for Syntax doc:
NOTE: Implementors are reminded that they are free to represent the RDF
graph in whatever way is appropriate, and there is no obligation to use
N-triples or any specific concrete representation of the abstract syntax.
Specifically, RDF/XML implementations that wish to manipulate XML Literals
as XML may find it more appropriate to represent this lexical form as two
components: the XML element content and the language tag (if any) - these
two components could be combined to give the abstract syntax representation
if needed.
Jeremy
If it comes to a vote, please accept my proxy vote
in strong favor of Option 1.
Patrick
A: Option 2
straw poll:
"We prefer Option 2 to no change."
If Yes then
straw poll - we prefer option 1 to option 2
straw poll - we prefer option 3 to option 2
straw poll - we prefer option 4 to option 2
each with fors, against and strongly against (i.e. would vote against in formal vote).
Chair to put question (option 1,2,3 or 4) based on results of staw polls.
If no to A, then no question is put.
Rationale:
Option 2 is the smallest sensible change, if we prefer the status quo to option 2, then we should do nothing. Otherwise we should decide to go for option 2 or more sophisticated, and then see if we have support for a more sophisticated XMLLiteral solution (options 1, 3 or 4).
Jeremy
From: ext Jeremy Carroll [mailto:jjc@hplb.hpl.hp.com]
Sent: 09 May, 2003 15:29
jjc@hplb.hpl.hp.com; w3c-rdfcore-wg@w3.org
Subject: RE: typed literals and language tags - suggested sub-agenda
So far I am the only one to have spoken against 4 - if there
are no others
who join me in that position in the telecon I am currently
expecting option
4 to win.
That would be very welcome.
Option 4 makes XMLLiteral ignore language.
Right. So long as Dave's arguments that this is not in direct
conflict with M&amp;S, such that the charter doesn't get in the way,
I think this will make the widest group of RDF users the happiest.
To refresh my memory (and so I don't have to go searching through
the archives) can you recap in a sentence or two what your concerns
were with Option 4?
Thanks,
Patrick
