The story so far:
We have established that M&amp;S clearly states that it consider langauge to be
'part of' a literal.
We identified 3 use cases requiring language support:
Martyn's
Jan's
OCLC's
Of these Martyn's did not consider representation of language in a literal
to be important. The other two found the M&amp;S specification of language as
part of a literal to be useful and adequate for their needs.
I propose therefore that:
o a literal be regarded as a pair (s,l) where s is a string of ISO10646
characters and l is either null or a language identifier as
defined in RFC 1766 or its successors.
o that an item be included in the errata for M&amp;S:
which should make it clear that a literal is not just a simple string,
but a compound structure including an optional representation of a
language encoding.
It should be noted that other parts of the text of the specification
may need similar clarification.
o that n-triple be modified to represent the language encoding of a
literal
o that we delay determining the wording of the errata and the change to
n-triple until issue
is resolved as the outcome of that issue may further refine the
definition of a literal.
Brian
Really? they found it useful?
I thought the OCLC folks got their job done
without using xml:lang.
I guess I'll pore over the records, but I'd appreciate a pointer.
That doesn't seem to cover the case of rdf:parsetype="Literal".
Which text is wrong?
it already says that a literal isn't just a string.
Why? n-triples can repesent pairs already, using triples.
I find that option much more appealing.
I'm not interested
in adopting it separately from a solution
to rdfms-literal-is-xml-structure. (I'm not interested
in adopting it at all; but this issue allows me
to give some justification, over and above 'yuk!')
Dan Connolly, W3C http://www.w3.org/People/Connolly/
Eric, please did I understood you correctly at the last telecon? I
understood you to say that the DC use case you provided did use
xml:lang as specified in M&amp;S and that was adequate to meet the
requirements of that use case.
True - we've got that as a separate issue but really these should be
considered together.
or it can be a literal; i.e., a resource (specified by a URI) or a simple
string or other primitive datatype defined by XML.
This text does not make it clear, at least to me, that a literal can have
a language component as described in:
The xml:lang attribute may be used as defined by [XML] to associate
a language with the property value. There is no specific data model
representation for xml:lang (i.e., it adds no triples to the data
model); the language of a literal is considered by RDF to be a part
of the literal.
The original WG have taken a different view. Is there a more powerful
case that can be made to change what M&amp;S specifies than we have so
far heard.
Fair enough.
(I'm not interested
I see 'yuk', what's the justification?
Brian
that it's connected with is-xml-structure; i.e. see above.
Dan Connolly, W3C http://www.w3.org/People/Connolly/
If l is null, is (s,l) the same as s? I ask because in LISP, (a nil)
is not the same as a.
Pat
(650)859 6569 w
(650)494 3973 h (until September)
phayes@ai.uwf.edu
My mistake - that should have read Eric's Dublin Core use case, not OCLC.
Brian
