Dear editors.
Now, "Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 1.0" is available
in Japanese(iso-2022-jp,LF) at
and it is manifested in it that the Japnese version is under
your copyright.
By the way, I have it in mind to translate "Techniques for Web
Content Accessibility Guidelines 1.0" to japaneses, while HTML 4.0
and CSS1 have been already available in japanese. I hope that an
associated set of them is eatablished in japnese as in english normative.
Thank you for your efforts translating this document. I will
add the information you've provided to the translators list.
- Ian
Ian Jacobs (jacobs@w3.org) http://www.w3.org/People/Jacobs
Dear editors.
Now, "Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 1.0" is available
in Japanese(iso-2022-jp,LF) at
and it is manifested in it that the Japnese version is under
your copyright.
By the way, I have it in mind to translate "Techniques for Web
Content Accessibility Guidelines 1.0" to japaneses, while HTML 4.0
and CSS1 have been already available in japanese. I hope that an
associated set of them is eatablished in japnese as in english normative.
Thank you
Yasutaka Kato
This is very nice, thanks a lot! But the notice should be at the
top, not (only) at the bottom.
Do you want to say that the Japanese versions also should become
normative? That may be difficult; what happens if some difference
is detected?
Regards, Martin.
#-#-# Martin J. Du"rst, World Wide Web Consortium
#-#-# mailto:duerst@w3.org http://www.w3.org
I rewrite it as the note is at the top.
No, I do not say. Just simply I say to consutract it as in english
and do not mean to be normative.
Thanks
Yasutaka Kato
Dear Mr. Kato,
I very much appreciated your past translations of W3C
specifications. Your efforts are very valuable.
However, I have just found translations of our Copyright
FAQ (at http://www.asahi-net.or.jp/~bd9y-ktu/html4rec_f/IPR-FAQj.html)
and of the W3C IPR document notice (at
Regarding these, and maybe similar documents, I have to note that:
- The Copyright FAQ gives the right to translate specifications,
but the above documents are not specifications. You would have
to ask explicitly for permission.
- I do not remember any mail regarding these to the w3c-translators
mailing list from you. If I'm wrong, please tell me.
- The above documents are living documents; the translation therefore
easily can be out of synch.
- The above documents are legal documents or close in nature to legal
documents; translations by third parties can lead to serious problems.
I therefore ask you to:
- Make the abovementionned documents and similar documents that you may
have translated unavailable for the public, at least until you have
asked for permission, and this permission has been granted.
- Do likewise with any translations of similar nature that we may
not be aware off.
In case you are asking for permission, I would expect you to at least:
- Conform to the conditions for specifications of translations.
(in particular saying that the original is the English version
on the W3C site, and that your translation may contain errors).
- Clearly note which date of the original document the translation
corresponds to, and that the original may have changed in the
meantime and the changes may be crucial. This is particularly
important because you include the (maybe outdated) English text,
too.
- That by the nature of these documents, readers relying only on the
translation, or only on an old version, may get themselves into
serious troubles.
Regards, Martin.
#-#-# Martin J. Du"rst, I18N Activity Lead, World Wide Web Consortium
#-#-# mailto:duerst@w3.org http://www.w3.org/People/D%C3%BCrst
Dear Mr.Martin
Your suggetions make sense and I accept them.
Certainly the permissipn is not explicitly given, even if the
translation has W3C Copyright at foot of the web page and it
was talked about a little at past when "Web Content Accessibility
Guidelines 1.0 x jp)" is telled in this mailing list.
Now, W3C Copyright including three items is at top of documents at
However, as you point it, these documents is old in version, so
they must be adjusted to the latest version.
I tell it again in this mailing list when the latest translation
is available. For a while, can I remain them to be old verion ?
Thank you for your suitable suggetions.
- Yasutaka Kato
- emaill : y.kato@personal.email.ne.jp
- http://www.asahi-net.or.jp/~bd9y-ktu/
