I've noticed some sort of links to do with Opera while browsing your site.
Opera is a Web browser notorious for being not too user-friendly and for being
$$$-ware (while all other Web browsers are freeware).
I hope there isn't a conflict of interest here. I would hate to see Amaya go
down the tubes because someone has decided to make it unstable and buggy so
that it isn't a serious competitor for their commercial Opera browser.
Especially since software should be free and the w3c should be non-profit...
Or are those links to do with some other sort of Opera?
Get free e-mail and a permanent address at http://www.netaddress.com/?N=1
being
And _where_, exactly, is this notoriety prevalent? I use this browser
almost always having to resort to IE or NN only for those sites which
have coded their pages to exploit one or the other. It is IMO more
flexible and customizable than either of IE or NN. It's support of
Java is more consistent and standard. (It realizes Java using the Sun
plugin.) It is fast and has a small footprint. Surely Opera doesn't
have this reputation with its regular users. See
this reputation in the opinion of many technical writers. See
In the case of big sites, I often find that if I am limited to NN or
IE, some parts work well with IE, some others better with NN. If I
want consistent behavior, I need to use Opera.
As far as paying your way goes, see http://www.operasoftware.com/whypay.html.
--jtg
[snip]
In-reply-to: Your message of 11 Jun 1999 03:10:13 -0600."
The project Opera is a research project at INRIA and has no relationship
with the browser Opera. That project exists for 10 years and didn't change its
name when the browser appeared on the market.
Irene.
In-reply-to: Your message of 11 Jun 1999 03:10:13 -0600."
The project Opera is a research project at INRIA and has no relationship
with the browser Opera. That project exists for 10 years and didn't change its
name when the browser appeared on the market.
Irene.
Thanks for the clarification.
(Who the heck chose the default window size and shape? It runs off the bottom
of the screen even at 1024x768... most users don't have a snazzy Matrox
1600x1200 video system like you developers :-) And most users are not going to
feel very comfortable diddling a poorly-documented .rc file to change it
either. Wish it remembered the window size and file directory last used at
each new session! If those were saved back to the .rc file every document
save, it wouldn't trouble anyone, and should work even through crashes for
users that save frequently.)
Get free e-mail and a permanent address at http://www.netaddress.com/?N=1
