hi,
i want to add some font to amaya, i use amaya 1.8b and there is no intresting font that i found. so what should i do to insert some type of font?
Do you Yahoo!?
Yahoo! SiteBuilder - Free, easy-to-use web site design software
On Sun, 21 Sep 2003 21:31:31 -0400 (EDT)
We have a fonts configuration file for GTK and GL versions.
See:
* Amaya/config/fonts.gl for the GL version on Unix platforms
* Amaya/config/fonts.unix for the GTK version on Unix platforms
* Amaya/config/fonts.win for the GL version on Windows platforms
Unfortunately we didn't find time yet to develop the user interface that provides
menus to update the fonts configuration file.
Today, you have to copy the current used fonts configuration file in your
AmayaHome directory (see info about Configuring Amaya) and to update
it by hand.
The development of the Amaya user interface is in progress and we are open
to good suggestions about fonts management.
Irene.
Ir?ne Vatton INRIA Rh?ne-Alpes
INRIA ZIRST
e-mail: Irene.Vatton@inria.fr 655 avenue de l'Europe
Personally I would go with an interface similar to Opera which
lets you first select the element and then choose a dialog box
which has several characteristics to select like family, size, color.
If the element list was arranged with the most likely to be altered
at the top, it would be more efficient....
and of course the storage file could/should be a css stylesheet
setting the font characteristics only. This would allow hand tuning!
The selector should access the installed font directory on the
particular o/s so that all registered font families can be used.
On Sun, 21 Sep 2003 21:31:31 -0400 (EDT)
We have a fonts configuration file for GTK and GL versions.
See:
* Amaya/config/fonts.gl for the GL version on Unix platforms
* Amaya/config/fonts.unix for the GTK version on Unix platforms
* Amaya/config/fonts.win for the GL version on Windows platforms
Unfortunately we didn't find time yet to develop the user interface
that provides menus to update the fonts configuration file. Today,
you
have to copy the current used fonts configuration file in your
AmayaHome directory (see info about Configuring Amaya) and to update
it by hand.
The development of the Amaya user interface is in progress and we are
open to good suggestions about fonts management.
Irene.
Ir?ne Vatton INRIA Rh?ne-Alpes
INRIA ZIRST
e-mail: Irene.Vatton@inria.fr 655 avenue de l'Europe
john russell ve3ll@rac.ca [those are L's as in LLAMA]
Almost all font selectors I have seen make you work into a small
properties dialog. This is cruel, specially for people with biger
screens. It should be resizable.
I can imagine two use-cases for font selection, the "fast" and the
"touristic".
The fast one is about somebody that knows exactly what she wants bus
can't write the full font name by heart.
In this case it would be fine to allow the user to start typing
characters of the part of the name she remembers with focus into the
list. THe list should react shrinking itself to display only those font
names that contain the typed partial text.
Not those that *start* with the typed text but those that include the
text somewhere in the name.
The user can then shrink the list up to the point where there is only
one item or where is practical to select from within a few elements
using the mouse or the KB arrows.
The touristic selection is about somebody looking around for an
interesting font without a neat idea of what he wants.
In this case the dialog window should be resizable, with a generous area
where to show a sample.
Don't use lists for properties that have a few options like (Bold |
Plain | Foo | Bar), it's much better to use radios, because all options
are visible at once. You already know this ... :-)
Only: related options are easier to identify when they are clustered
togwther and equally spaced and aligned.
See Style ==  Character style ...: The names of the frames would be
better if slightly bolded, one could spot them much faster. Notice that
this dialog has a "default" option anywhere, this is very good!
If color is to be selected then use the regular Amaya color picker, for
consistency.
If I were to set the priorities, the fast option should be first, then
the other if ever.
From a marketing point of view the touristic is a "feature", but you
can't sell a browser based on it's font selector. Naybe in it's overall
ease of use.
Well, enough ...
I hope this is useful. Please write me if something is not clear.
Juan Lanus
TECNOSOL
Argentina
I forgot:
When the dialog comes a second time it should "remember" where it was
and it's content ...
JML
