====== BIG ISSUES REMAINING TO BE DISCUSSED =======
13. Conformance - why do it? How to test?
14. Author and user needs conflict
15. User and user needs conflict
Gregg C Vanderheiden Ph.D.
Professor - Human Factors
Dept of Ind. Engr. - U of Wis.
Director - Trace R &amp; D Center
Gv@trace.wisc.edu mailto:Gv@trace.wisc.edu , http://trace.wisc.edu/
For a list of our listserves send ?lists? to listproc@trace.wisc.edu
You can get a baseline of accessibility on a page that is adequate for
everyone, But if you want state of the art accessibility then:
Users and users needs conflict - fact
In what circumstances? Examples would probably help to clarify the issue.
Suggested solution: Alternative renderings
Author-supplied, generated by user agents, or each as appropriate?
Well, there are two approaches.
An example is that some users prefer well-animated content, and others prefer
non-animated content.
In some instances this can be decided by the users themselves - decent
browsers allow the user to specify that they don't want content to be
animated, or even that by default they don't want types of content that are
likely to be animated.
And the other approach, as Lisa pointed out (beating Kynn to the jump - hi
Kynn grin/ ) is to serve different versions of the content for different
users (It isn't just Reef doing this - big names include IBM, smaller ones
include adaptive media, and most people who started marketing to mobile
devices).
The benefit of the first appraoch is that it is very simple for authors, but
users have to do more configuration, and therefore need to know they can, and
how.
chaals
You can get a baseline of accessibility on a page that is adequate for
everyone, But if you want state of the art accessibility then:
Users and users needs conflict - fact
In what circumstances? Examples would probably help to clarify the issue.
Suggested solution: Alternative renderings
Author-supplied, generated by user agents, or each as appropriate?
Location: 21 Mitchell street FOOTSCRAY Vic 3011, Australia
(or W3C INRIA, Route des Lucioles, BP 93, 06902 Sophia Antipolis Cedex, France)
hi
different
ones
This introduces complexity, you need some way to manage the choice of the
users, whilst I acknowledge there's a CC/PP proposal, we have no
implementations (and I hope we never do, it goes against my own views on
accessibility) so you have to provide a user interface, this interface is
likely be its very nature to be confusing and complicated for a user to
relearn on each site they may visit, and that's where the site designer
is happy to compromise their basic interface/design of what the site's
actual content is about to provide these additional options.
For things like animation, the solution surely has to rest with the user
in the UserAgent, I can't see how any recommendation could credibly
suggest that it be done on a page by page basis.
authors, but
can, and
Indeed, but it solves for every site, and not just the one where the
author understands the principles of accessibilty and is willing to make
consideration. There's always the opportunity for a page designer who is
interested in doing this to provide details of how a particular UA could
be used to change the feature.
Jim.
Can I though in my opinion on this one
You can get a baseline of accessibility on a page that is adequate for
everyone, But if you want state of the art accessibility then:
Users and users needs conflict - fact
Suggested solution: Alternative renderings
I was trying to look the WCAG checklist
view to whom this is one of the beginning points of getting started in
making his or her Web page accessible. This user is very much in need of
concrete examples.
I suggest that if still possible we add a link directly to the techniques
from each checkpoint so that users can more directly get to some examples
e.g. if they are looking at 1.1 they can get to
possible to make that change at least we could do that with WCAG 2.
Even better would be if we also could have a link to the curriculum
examples, but that is probably more difficult as it is material outside the
guidelines. Unless annotations are used to create the links.
Marja
The one you send them to isn't really "concrete examples" either - no code.
By putting the checklist into tabular form
it's two clicks deep to
from checkpoint 1.1. Some have found this layout more fun than the
checklist document itself?
If WCAG2.0 is ever stable, I will do similar presentation for it.
Love.
EACH UN-INDEXED/ANNOTATED WEB POSTING WE MAKE IS TESTAMENT TO OUR HYPOCRISY
Hmmm
This looks very interesting. We should think about something like
this when we are done.
Shouldn?t the table be cumulative though? If you want triple A
conformance you must do all the guidelines, not just the ones in the
triple A column.
(the emergency use only item probably needs a different title.)
Gregg
But
By putting the checklist into tabular form
it's two clicks deep to
from checkpoint 1.1. Some have found this layout more fun than the
checklist document itself?
Doesn't the user agent just not ask for images?
if the user needs images, they are happy to walk and enjoy the view, if they
are in a rush, naturally they cannot dally.
jonathan chetwynd
IT teacher (LDD)
j.chetwynd@btinternet.com
on the web"
Lets take a table layout, not good for some who have old screen readers,
that just read strait across the page or have linearization problems.
To achieve the same effect in CSS implies that in reality many browsers will
not implement the layout as intended, and that is a real life problem for
designers with a professional image to keep up.
To have a more linerized page layout is a problem for people with low motor
skills for whom scrolling down is hard.
In each of these implentaions some users will be left with a
implementations level which is doable but difficult.
Some things just contradict - keep the bandwidth low, but illustrate.
So as I said basic accessibility works on one page. But I want ALL my users
to surf and not crawl.
In terms of how I do this personally, I have a link to more accessible
renderings. If the user selects it, I can set an option to default to this
rendering on any GF site.
Lisa
DISCUSSED
Script or not using tables could be used to solve this, how many of these
screen readers are there really in use whereby they have screen readers
who can't manage that, for windows I could write a table reader in about
an hour, would be about a 5k download and cost nothing, if there are
really are users with that limitation, please put me in touch I could help
them a lot...
will
for
There are plenty of representations that "professionals" manage without
resorting to tables that linearise very poorly, this kind of HTML is the
result of authoring tools generally, rather than human design, in any case
what exactly are you suggesting of CSS that really fails that often?
Jim.
They only contract if you take a data-centric model of the web instead
of a user-centric model. In a user-centric model, the server and/or
client processes _transform_ the data to meet the needs of the user
(this is the Edapta model I've been talking about since before I even
heard of Edapta).
In a data-centric model, the user, server, and client have to adapt
themselves to fit the needs of the data. Data-centric typically says
"here's the data first, we'll pretend it's all complete, and if you
can't use it then there's probably something wrong with you." A user
centric model says "let's give you the best access possible even if
it means we have to compensate for something on your end or even a
factor that's beyond your control."
In the user-centric model, illustrations and bandwidth do not conflict
but rather complement. There is a trade-off, yes -- if you're low
bandwidth _and_ you want pictures, a choice needs to be made. But that
choice should be the user's choice and the server should respect it,
not a single decision made by the web designer for all models of user
interaction.
(Technical scenario: User has set preferences via CC/PP to indicate
what the optimal level of graphical content is -- a continuum should
exist from "no graphics" to "any graphics possible" -- as well as the
characteristics of the network connection being transmitted in the
CC/PP profile as well. The end server recognizes the user's preferences
and the constraints of the connection and provides the appropriate
level of graphical detail. The user should be able to EXCEED the default
as well, to allow for an "extended graphical version" which is beyond
the base visual experience, such as filling in illustrative pictures
whenever possible [*]. This is how you produce an optimal user interface
based on the needs of the _specific_ user.)
--Kynn
[*] Many news services automatically add links to news stories about
companies or famous people -- see Yahoo! news for example. It
wouldn't be hard to similarly include a small thumbnail of George
Bush, the trademarked logos of corporations, or a link to a map
of Afghanistan or wherever, if producing an extended graphical
version.
Kynn Bartlett kynn@reef.com
Technical Developer Liaison
Reef North America
Accessibility - W3C - Integrator Network
BUSINESS IS DYNAMIC. TAKE CONTROL.
It would also be trivial to write a proxy that changes tables into CSS
which could be accessed by people with screenreaders -- screenreaders
which don't linearize properly are, in my opinion, a Solved Problem.
Now, that doesn't mean _tables which don't linearize properly_ aren't
still a problem, and by that I mean poor HTML coding. I myself have
been guilty of that in the past, once with a proposed redesign for an
employer's site, which went:
START OF TABLE
ROW ONE:
CELL ONE:
Header A
CELL TWO:
Header B
CELL THREE:
Header C
ROW TWO:
CELL ONE:
List of items in category A
CELL TWO:
List of items in category B
CELL THREE:
List of items in category C
END OF TABLE
Now, if you'll notice, that's actually fairly "correct" HTML. It's not
really broken via spec, but it's borken when it comes to interpretation
by screenreader.
(It's actually a limitation both of HTML and of screenreaders that the
above didn't work correctly; the screenreaders can't take the full blame
because the HTML spec is far too loose for the kind of data association
we need here. More on this if I can make Reef's single authoring markup
languages public.)
--Kynn
Kynn Bartlett kynn@reef.com
Technical Developer Liaison
Reef North America
Accessibility - W3C - Integrator Network
BUSINESS IS DYNAMIC. TAKE CONTROL.
