EOWG:
For our 3 October teleconference, here is an updated draft of the benefits
of standards harmonization document for discussion:
Why Standards Harmonization is Essential to Web Accessibility
- Judy
Judy Brewer +1.617.258.9741 http://www.w3.org/WAI
Director, Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI), World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)
MIT/LCS Room NE43-355, 200 Technology Square, Cambridge, MA, 02139, USA
I subscribe to a UK newsletter called the "*E-ACCESS BULLETIN." The latest
issue, #45 September 2003, includes an interesting and relevant article on
the topic of standards harmonization. This issue is not on line yet (I
checked this morning). Their copyright notice indicates "Sections of the
report may be quoted as long as they are clearly sourced as 'taken from
e-access bulletin, a free monthly email newsletter', and our web site
address http://www.headstar.com/eab is also cited." So, that being done,
here is the article:
[begin clip]
The RNIB's high-profile 'See it Right' web accessibility audit scheme,
which launched in February 2002, does not match new government requirements
for local council web sites, E-Access Bulletin has learned.
So far four local authorities - Kensington and Chelsea, Thurrock, Welwyn
Hatfield and Wrexham councils - have paid to receive See it Right
accreditation (http://fastlink.headstar.com/rnib3) although Welwyn Hatfield
council covered their costs through sponsorship.
The See It Right scheme is based on a series of 'checkpoints' based on
guidelines published by the global Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI -
2002).
For web sites to pass the audit and receive the See It Right logo, they
need to fully comply with WAI level 'A' guidelines, but only partially with
the higher 'AA' and 'AAA' standards.
The problem for councils is that the government-required standards they
must meet in their Implementing E-Government (IEG) statements, which
declare whether electronic public service targets are being met, were
raised last July to a minimum of full compliance with WAI level 'AA'.
The discrepancy is causing confusion among councils currently waiting to
join the RNIB audit scheme such as Dorset County Council. Martin Bottomley,
communications manager at Dorset, is unsure whether his authority may incur
government funding penalties by obtaining an audit. "All of a sudden the
goal posts have been moved," he told E-Access Bulletin. His team will make
a final decision on 16 October.
The RNIB does offer a service where they will audit a site against any
chosen accessibility guidelines such as WAI AA, although the process takes
longer and costs more than See it Right.
However, RNIB web accessibility best practice officer Lis Angle said the
aspects of WAI 'AA' compliance that are excluded by the See it Right audit
are "very difficult to achieve." She said the RNIB did not have plans to
re-examine their audit guidelines. "Government sites are a small proportion
of sites we audit. We're really happy with what we have in our
requirements. We think we've covered everything. We are keeping our
standards as they are".
[ end clip ]
Outgoing mail is certified Virus Free.
Checked by AVG anti-virus system (http://www.grisoft.com).
Version: 6.0.522 / Virus Database: 320 - Release Date: 2003-09-29
n
In my initial review of the draft, I have a few questions:
1. What is the status of XML Accessibility Guidelines? XAG1.0 --
W3C Working Draft 3 October 2002 http://www.w3.org/TR/xag
2. Do the latest activities in XML, especially web services, impact
web accessibility? Is there a concise overview of how XML and Web
Services help accessibility?
I'm glad to see a more comprehensive approach to learning
enviornments being taken -- learning styles, collaborative learning
environments, and experiential learning are all important aspects of
truly addressing needs in this area. This comprehensiveness is
meant to be implied by the use of "adequately" in the third question:
3. Regarding Knowledge Repositories, has anyone been evaluating
whether the Sharable Content Object Reference Model (SCORM) standard
is adequately addressing accessibility requirements (at least it is
stated in their intentions)?
The Sharable Content Object Reference Model (SCORM) defines a
Web-based learning "Content Aggregation Model" and "Run-Time
Environment" for learning objects. The SCORM is a collection of
specifications adapted from multiple sources to provide a
comprehensive suite of e-learning capabilities that enable
interoperability, accessibility and reusability of Web-based
learning content. The work of the ADL Initiative to develop the
SCORM is also a process to knit together disparate groups and
interests. This reference model aims to coordinate emerging
technologies with commercial and/or public implementations.
Karl
(note that I am not a member of the EO working group, but I do read the
archive from time to time).
Some answers to Karl's questions - of course these are all just my
personal opinion:
On Friday, Oct 3, 2003, at 13:14 US/Pacific, Karl Hebenstreit, Jr.
I'm the currently active editor of it, but the working group is out of
charter so cannot publish new updates. I am assuming and hoping that
the new charter will include working on XAG but it apparently hasn't
been decided yet.
As far as I can tell there is not much likelihood of significant work
on the guidelines until the group is rechartered - I am not working on
them until the status is clarified, but the work that I am doing
elsewhere does include stuff that will provide techniques if the work
does re-start. There are also pieces being implemented "in the wild".
I don't know of one, but there are certainly areas in which
semantically well-described Web Services could be very useful. (Relying
on a well-known location or a plain text description of a service can
be useful too, but only when people find a particular service and tell
others about it).
Work done by groups like UBAccess and the (now abandoned) transcoding
work at IBM provide some ideas of Web Services that could be useful.
There is a specific area of work mostly within the Semantic Web
development community on image annotation that could be suitable for
further leveraging via Web Services.
XML and Web Services are more or less separate. XML provides some
possibilities in the form of enabling new, richer document formats to
be created with better accessibility support (although that isn't
guaranteed, hence the XAG work). Web Services essentially standardises
the things that used to be done through CGI-bin interfaces and other
machine-to-machine interactions via the internet.
So they are both more powerful tools than what they replace -
respectively SGML, which was complex, didn't include standardised
support for hyperlinking, and had a very semantically poor way of
defining languages through a DTD, and an unspecified collection of ways
to interact via the Internet, including with websites.
This was discussed in the context of the Dublin Core Accessibility
special interest group at the Dublin Core 2003 conference in Seattle
last week. I don't know if the answer to your question is yes, but
there are good signs that the issue is recognised and treated seriously.
Charles McCathieNevile Fundaci?n Sidar
charles@sidar.org http://www.sidar.org
Sorry, will not be able to be at Friday's teleconference.
Sailesh Panchang
Senior Accessibility Engineer
Deque Systems,11180 Sunrise Valley Drive,
4th Floor, Reston VA 20191
E-mail: sailesh.panchang@deque.com
* Look up http://www.deque.com *
