Please find some comments.
First, globally, we have noticed within the guidelines an important effort to inform and explain better the context (notably in the Introduction and in the guideline 5.4) : the stakes are more understandable, and that's an essential point.
Second, we would like to make some comments about some checkpoints :
- checkpoint 5.3.1 : must be a priority 1
- checkpoint 5.3.5 : the number of links is important, but the number of visited and/or unvisited links also
- checkpoint 6.1.11 : must be a priority 1, but there is not the same level of priority between knowing "whether loading has stalled", knowing "whether enough of the page has loaded to begin navigating", and "whether following a link involves a fee", which can be indeed priority 3
Hoping that comments are pertinent enough.
Olivier Borius, FIDEV
Olivier,
thanks for the comments. They are pertinent, and I agree with all of them.
The point about knowing how many of the links have/haven't been visited
hasn't really been raised here before (as far as I can remember), and I
would like to propose that it is information which may be made available
to the user to improve accessiblity of the user agent.
Charles McCathieNevile
Please find some comments.
First, globally, we have noticed within the guidelines an important effort to inform and explain better the context (notably in the Introduction and in the guideline 5.4) : the stakes are more understandable, and that's an essential point.
Second, we would like to make some comments about some checkpoints :
- checkpoint 5.3.1 : must be a priority 1
- checkpoint 5.3.5 : the number of links is important, but the number of visited and/or unvisited links also
- checkpoint 6.1.11 : must be a priority 1, but there is not the same level of priority between knowing "whether loading has stalled", knowing "whether enough of the page has loaded to begin navigating", and "whether following a link involves a fee", which can be indeed priority 3
Hoping that comments are pertinent enough.
Olivier Borius, FIDEV
--Charles McCathieNevile mailto:charles@w3.org
W3C Web Accessibility Initiative http://www.w3.org/WAI
MIT/LCS - 545 Technology sq., Cambridge MA, 02139, USA
Olivier,
Thank you for the comments. Due to my own scheduling constraints, I have
not been able to incorporate any changes into the UA Guidelines since
the
9 March draft. We will be publishing this draft to the TR page tonight
or tomorrow. Your comments are appreciated and will be considered by
the working group and incorporated into the next draft.
In the 10 March teleconf [1], the WG discussed the priority of
this checkpoint (Allow the user to navigate sequentially among links.).
It was decided to ensure that priority of 6.2.1 as Priority 1
(Allow the user to navigate sequentially among all active elements in
the document.)
and to keep the special case of just links as a priority 2. I don't
think this
discuss has ended yet.
[1]
The working group will discuss this proposal.
So you are proposing creating more than one checkpoint (which we
sometimes
do when one contains too much information)? The working group will
discuss this proposal.
Thank you again,
- Ian
Ian Jacobs (jacobs@w3.org)
