I am posting this message to three lists, sorry for duplicate copies.
There has been a significant discussion on the social meaning
parts of the RDF Concepts Last Call.
Some of the participants plan to be at the Semantic Web
Architecture Meeting next month.
On Thursday 6th we see:
Second afternoon session: formal meaning meets social context
Social Meaning of RDF from RDF concepts
I am hoping that the people in the room in that session might
come to a consensus and be able to jointly suggest improved wording
which may be considered by the RDFCore WG.
DanC suggests sending position statements to
www-archive@w3.org copying connolly@w3.org and em@w3.org
For those of you who won't be there do remember that
www-rdf-comments@w3.org is open for last call
comments through to 21st Feb.
For those of you who will be there, this is not an alternative
to making your comments on www-rdf-comments@w3.org before 21st
Feb, but should be seen as supplementary.
Jeremy Carroll
Really! Where?
Brian
"significant" might not have been the right word, but certainly extensive
enough to get a slot on the agenda at the tech plenary.
I am trying to maximize the utility of that slot, to me, as one of the
responsible editors.
The wording of the message was intended to convey clearly that the RDFCore
WG is in charge of the document.
The recent discussion on this topic that I have been party to has been on
WebOnt; where there is more opposition to our wording than in RDFCore. Since
the social meaning of RDF becomes the social meaning of OWL this seems in
order.
My hope is that with face2face conversation between people who feel strongly
about this issue minor wording changes could be suggested that:
- continue to create connection between RDF Formal semantics and the real
world
- continue to indicate the possibility of legally binding agreements
- but avoid any sensitivities unintentionally transgressed
As editor, I believe that if this is possible then the WG would be likely to
approve such changes since:
- the resolution of rdfms-assertion would still be conveyed
- a comment about social meaning from PFPS
(which doesn't seem to have made it into the LC issue list - but is clearly
intended as a Last Call comment) and probably others in webont may be
addressable
Since PFPS regards this as a "fatal flaw" I am under obligation to at least
fully understand where he (and others) differ from the WG position which I
support.
Jeremy
From: Brian McBride [mailto:bwm@hplb.hpl.hp.com]
Sent: 13 February 2003 23:44
Subject: Re: Social Meaning Boston 6 March
There's been some discussion on WebOnt, starting here:
Also, it doesn't count as discussion, but I indicated a position here:
But I'll agree with you that there's not yet been sufficient discussion to
see where this is going.
#g
Graham Klyne
Thanks Graham, the pointers were very useful.
Jeremy is suggesting - lets see if we can find a form of words that
satisfies everyone. I'm hoping that doesn't mean fudging the issue. I'm
also very concerned that you won't be present if there is a f2f discussion
at the tech plenary. Maybe we should be thinking about dialing you in?
I'm also wondering about laying some of the groundwork. I'm seeing a lot
of very unstructured discussion, and I fear there is great risk of
confusion clouding the discussion.
Do you and Jeremy have any ideas on how we might best prepare/clarify the
question.
Brian
As meeting co-chair, I'm disinclined to offer participation by phone.
I expect to have IRC in the meeting room, and I invite
anybody who is physically present to voice input from
IRC.
i.e. if Graham wants to arrange for somebody at the meeting
to speak for him, very well.
Hm... that risk seems to have materialized long ago.
1/2 ;-)
Dan Connolly, W3C http://www.w3.org/People/Connolly/
I don't think we need to compromise anything here -- I think most of the
concerns expressed have been concerns of the WG, and the problem has been
in the explanation. In hindsight, I think the example we used has not been
helpful, and I'd like to drop it.
Here are some thoughts I have:
I think the issue of social meaning is poorly handled, and needs to be
improved. I think the main point we need to convey here is that there may
be social meaning associated with some RDF that is opaque to automated
reasoning processes. The secondary point is that such meaning may be
embodied in some collection of RDF statements, and those statements may be
obtained by application of a logically valid reasoning process. But there
is no intent that RDF agents somehow need to be aware of the social meaning.
There is a separate issue of how a URI gains its meaning, which I think
should be handled separately.
#g
Graham Klyne
As originator of the example, I agree. It was invented for use in a
talk, where its shock value had some rhetorical purpose. As part of a
spec document it probably raises way too many dangerous-seeming
issues. We can make the essential point with a much blander (and
simpler) example if necessary, eg A defines a class name and says
something informal but significant about it (such as : Frobs; we can
deliver these in one working day) , B uses it to assign a type,
(#g000345 rdf:type A#Frob) then if the informal meaning applies to
the class name (we assume A is telling the truth) then it has to be
understood as applying to the instance name (A said he could deliver
#g000345 in one working day). In other words, doing a formal
inference doesn't break any social meaning. Kind of obvious, right?
Pat
IHMC(850)434 8903 or (650)494 3973 home
40 South Alcaniz St.(850)202 4416 office
FL 32501???????????(850)291 0667 cell
phayes@ai.uwf.edu http://www.coginst.uwf.edu/~phayes
s.pam@ai.uwf.edu for spam
(I'm sending this to two mailing lists by BCC to avoid cross-posting.)
Here's my 2c worth. I really think this a basically a matter of
getting the wording straight.
Summary.
1. In order to achieve conformity to the RDF (and other)
specifications it is sufficient to refer solely to the formal
semantics as described by the specification documents (and the
syntax, etc., of course.) Nothing in what follows implies that there
is any requirement that RDF conformity of any RDF parser, editor,
reasoning engine, etc., can depend on anything other than the
formally defined syntax and semantics.
2. Using Lynn's terminology,
(http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-webont-wg/2003Jan/0301.html)
RDF assertions in actual use on the Web are intended to be part of
larger 'systems' of meaning in at least two senses: a formal system
of meaning, defined by the model-theoretic semantic specification(s)
of RDF and any semantic extensions (such as RDFS and OWL) which may
be in use, and a social system defined by norms of use, legal
obligations, and generally by what Lynn calls "affective semantics,
ie what work the terms can do in the world". Clearly, the latter
does not admit of the kind of mathematical description that is
available to define the former, and also unlike the former, cannot
itself be constrained or even precisely delineated by any working
group or standards body.
3. Even though social meaning cannot be defined precisely, it can be
referred to; and there is a need to refer to social meaning,
particularly in view of this intended usage of content-bearing
formalisms in a public setting (as in the SW vision) being relatively
new and untested. It is important to the intended mode of use of RDF
that any social meaning applied to RDF usage at least be *conformant*
to the formal meaning. This is a very weak constraint, but it is not
entirely trivial, and it may be relevant to writers of other software
which is intended to use RDF-encoded information or to interface with
RDF-conformant reasoners.
4. The nature of this 'formal meaning conformity' is that *any*
meaning assigned to RDF, in *any* system of meaning, *should* be such
as to be preserved under any formally valid RDF entailments, and be
recognized as being so preserved. "Should" here means that any other
assignments of meaning are disavowed by the spec as inappropriate,
and if they are imposed on RDF, then even conformity to the formal
meaning part of the spec will not be sufficient to guarantee that the
RDF machinery will not change that assigned meaning inappropriately.
This is not a formally exact constraint since its scope is too wide
to admit a formally precise statement, but it is both reasonably
precise (IMO) and an accurate statement of the intentions of the
designers of the language for its intended domain of use; and, it is
important for interoperability that the RDF spec clearly state that
this is intended to apply to all intended uses of the formalism.
5. An example of the need for this statement arises when considering
the problems which could arise in interfacing RDF produced by an
RDF-conformant piece of software with another piece of software which
performs inferences which are not RDF-valid. If the second,
non-conformant, software performs inferences which are valid
*relative to RDF interpretations satisfying extra semantic
constraints* (eg an OWL reasoner) then the overall system satisfies
this requirement of 'formal meaning conformity'. But if it performs
inferences which violate the basic RDF semantic requirements, eg
non-monotonic inferences in the RDF vocabulary, then the overall
system may not be conformant. While any non-RDF engine is not, of
course, required to conform to the RDF specs, the difference between
these two conditions, when considering global interoperability and
the possibly corrupting effect of invalid inferences elsewhere on the
Web, is sufficiently important that it seems appropriate to draw
attention to it; and the general notions of interpretation,
entailment and validity are sufficiently precise and also in
sufficiently wide use (ie not RDF-specific) that the constraint can
be usefully understood and applied.
6. More broadly, there is a possible misunderstanding about 'formal
meaning' that needs to be explicitly addressed in the specs, to the
effect that formal meaning is socially meaningless, and therefore any
formally derived conclusions can have no affective semantics. It is
important to explicitly deny this misunderstanding, since this false
assumption would render the intended uses of RDF impossible. The
denial really amounts to little more than the observation any
affective semantics assigned to any RDF should also be understood as
thereby assigned to any formal conclusions drawn from that RDF; but,
vide 1. above, this is not the claim that such affective semantics is
in any sense contained within the formal meaning, or in any way
influences the formal validity or otherwise of any inferences.
7. The last point can be illustrated by a simple example in which a
formal RDF entailment is used in a setting which clearly is intended
to convey a social meaning.
Suppose a retailer A publishes an RDF-marked-up online catalog in
which the products are named as RDFS classes for use by automated RDF
reasoners, and the website asserts in some HTML-encoded text that
"Frobs are available for delivery in two working days". Suppose a
customer's RDF reasoner uses the published RDF to conclude that
something is in the appropriate class:
Part#345 rdf:type A#Frob .
The 'formal meaning conformity' condition would say that the customer
was justified in concluding that Part#345 would be delivered in two
working days. This is not derivable from the published RDF alone,is
probably not formally derivable by any piece of software, and is not
actually stated as such in the catalog (which does not mention
Part#345): but what is formally derivable is that the Part in
question is in the class concerning which the retailer socially, ie
publicly, gave an assurance of service; and the formal meaning
conformity condition requires that the formal conclusion be suitably
interpretable in the meaning context of the assertion from which it
was derived. The mechanical use of a valid formal inference process
does not automatically erase the normal social intent of a promise of
delivery, or somehow cancel any affective meaning attached to the
class name.
In contrast, and to illustrate that this condition is nontrivial,
note that it would clearly be irrational to require the use of an
invalid inference process to preserve such social meanings.
If Ive got anyone's viewpoint expressed wrongly, please correct.
More contentious opinion:
It has been claimed that *any* reference to social meaning should be
expunged from the normative text of *any* specification document, on
the grounds that social meaning has no precise definition, and that
specifications should be concerned solely with the 'black and white'
issues. This opinion is open to debate - I for one would disagree -
but it is not valid as a technical objection, since specification
documents are written in natural language, and routinely use
terminology (such as 'intended use') which is widely understood but
admits no precise formal definition.
By the way, the use of normative language from RFC 2119 is intended,
according to its author, to be appropriate whenever it significantly
contributes to interoperability; which seems to me to be clearly the
case here. So I don't consider it inappropriate to have normative
parts of the spec referring to this issue.
Pat Hayes
IHMC(850)434 8903 or (650)494 3973 home
40 South Alcaniz St.(850)202 4416 office
FL 32501???????????(850)291 0667 cell
phayes@ai.uwf.edu http://www.coginst.uwf.edu/~phayes
s.pam@ai.uwf.edu for spam
I would expect the WG to reject a form of words that satisfied everyone but
fudged the issue.
I hope *I* would not be satisified with a fudge.
I see the editorial task here as expressing the WG intent in such a way as
to avoid any unnecessary opposition.
I believe this intent is reasonably clear:
a) RDF has meaning that relates to the relate world.
b) This meaning is preserved under formal entailments.
c) This meaning should be socially enforceable in the same way as the
meaning of other languages that relate to the real world (e.g. English).
d) The document section should be normative.
e) The use of a word like "legal" is strongly preferred.
At this stage the only one of those that I think might be appropriate to
fudge is (e) if words like "socially enforceable" can be made to carry more
weight.
It may be beneficial to slightly fudge (b) by suggesting that contracts
underpinning multiparty systems that use RDF might specify which formal
system of entailments is intended (e.g. RDF entailments, RDFS entailments or
OWL entailments); I don't believe the WG ever reached closure on the
interaction between semantic extensions and social meaning.
Jeremy
[on "social meaning"]
Apart from (d) and (e), I think this is the _intent_ shared by many
critics of this document section. I don't get the impression that they
disagree with this, necessarily: only that it shouldn't be part of a
spec.
Being the rigorous thinker I am :-) let me illustrate with a loose
analogy:
If you fill in your credit-card details on a web page to
purchase a furby, you wouldn't have much of a leg to stand
on in court if your defence for nonpayment rested on the fact
that social context was not specified in the ethernet spec,
in the TCP/IP spec, in the SSL spec, in the HTTP spec,
in the HTML spec, or in the documentation for your browser.
What I'm trying to say is, social meaning arises out of use - out of
context. We expect assertions made in RDF to carry social meaning, but
(especially since terms like "legal" are being used) the exact social
meaning may vary over time.
It's really brave to try to capture this assumption in a specification.
Objectors fall into three categories: those worried about the complexity
of tying social convention and formal semantics; those worried that a
specification is not the place for this assertion; and those worried
about the legal ramifications of buying into a specification that makes
such an assertion.
I'd probably put myself more in the second camp - the area is
fascinating and the desire to create a formal semantics that preserves
social meaning is very interesting. But I thikn that'll come out of
deployed RDF applications.
jan grant, ILRT, University of Bristol. http://www.ilrt.bris.ac.uk/
"NOP" is a trivial implementation of an executable Z subset.
Jeremy--
I don't think any real "fudge" is needed. It seems to me simply that
(c) needs to clearly convey the idea that it is not the RDF Core WG that
is mandating social enforceability, or that there are legal
ramifications. Aren't we saying something roughly like this:
1. People use RDF statements to convey meaning related to the real
world (just as they use natural languages)
2. That being the case, the social environment in which those
statements are used may associate various additional meanings (and, in
some cases, consequences) with them, just as they would if the same
statements were made in English.
3. What the social environment does along these lines is determined,
not by the RDF specifications, but by conventions, laws, etc.
A simple example would be to compare something like:
"This product contains 100% orange joice"
with somethihg like:
ex:product ex:contains _:foo
_:foo ex:ingredient ex:orange_juice
_:foo ex:percentage ex:100
If the English appears in the description of a product, the maker of the
product will be held to the truth of that statement (and that's probably
true whether the English appears on a paper label, or in an HTML
description of the product on the Web). Society (by passing appropriate
laws on the subject, assuming the existing laws don't apply already) may
determine that the corresponding RDF statements have the same legal
force. This is a consequence, not of the RDF specifications per se, but
of the fact that RDF can be used to convey statements about the real
world, and such statements, in whatever form, may have consequences
determined by the social context in which they are made. We're simply
pointing out to people some of the potential issues raised by this
aspect of RDF.
--Frank
Frank Manola The MITRE Corporation
202 Burlington Road, MS A345 Bedford, MA 01730-1420
The intent is OK, but the words are still giving trouble.
Obviously that is our *intent*, but it smacks of hubris (to put it
mildly) to come across as asserting this as though our asserting it
made it so. Lets be very careful, when saying things like this, to
emphasis that this is an expression of our *intent* for how RDF will
be used.
This I think we can say pretty strongly, in a form that nobody can
complain about, by saying that if any kind of meaning which extends
the formal meaning is attributed to RDF, then we can guarantee that
no valid RDF reasoner will do anything to the RDF which would alter
or change that attribution of meaning. From which it follows that if
anyone uses a notion of meaning which can be altered by a valid RDF
reasoner, then they are going outside the normative spec.
Who are we to say this? Even as a statement of intent? I think this
is what Peter and others are complaining about, it sounds like we are
expressing a view here about the way that the world should be
organized. Its none of our business.
I would disagree, I think that this is what has cased all the
trouble, and we don't need to get into legal issues. And we aren't
competent to get into them, either.
I think that it is ridiculous to even set out to assert things like
(c). Is deletion a kind of fudging?
Never mind closure, I don't think we have even started to tackle this issue.
Pat
IHMC(850)434 8903 or (650)494 3973 home
40 South Alcaniz St.(850)202 4416 office
FL 32501???????????(850)291 0667 cell
phayes@ai.uwf.edu http://www.coginst.uwf.edu/~phayes
s.pam@ai.uwf.edu for spam
Looking at my msg which Pat is replying to, I think I had better disown it!
I have found Bijan's comment a fairly thorough demolition job - and the
question is: Is there anything worth salvaging from the rubble?
Bijan even makes good arguments against the formal entailments being
somehow mandatory. (c) below.
See:
Jeremy
