I was searching the site for icons, (letter to follow) and came across this gem.
thanks to Geoff and Chuck, what a lot of work, and really well executed.
I particularly like the attempt to limit need to use a scroll bar.
and the reduced prominence of copyright &amp; authoring details.
I do feel that the list is long and needs a contents page.
The order is not clear, it may follow the guidelines points order, but this appears not to be a natural flow.
In particular I am naturally disappointed that the 'most' accessible page (imho) is relegated to 115/120
113 is also very clear, as are quite a few others.
This type of page should be near the front, it is non-technical and hence very accessible.
The coding needs to be considered, as well as the appearance in determining what is accessible to the intended audience.
i.e. early on the coding must be very easy, The guidelines probably need to follow a different order.
once again thanks, my thoughts are off-the-cuff as usual, and intended to be helpful rather than inflammatory.
jonathan chetwynd
jc@signbrowser.org.uk
IT teacher (learning difficulty)
&amp; accessibility consultant
Jonathan is dead spot on. The examples he chose are exactly what we should
be doing a lot more of, and demonstrate what I meant in recent missives and
telecons by "self-reflexive" teaching content. The content doesn't just
*say* what to do: it does it - exemplifies it. "Self-reflexive" means just
that and the particular example, utilizing graphics, text, animation, and
sound not only is effective but also sends the message that we are not
about "dumbing down" the potential of the Web for being
interesting/entertaining as well as instructive/accessible/usable. The URI
of the specific curriculum slide, by the way is
Doing this will undoubtedly be more consuming of our time and
resourcefulness but unless we do it, we will surely fail. This is the
walk/dance we must walk/dance and has to supplement/replace the current
practice of just "talking the talk" without "singing the song". The words
of the old spiritual: "I'm gonna live the life I sing about in my song" are
applicable to our situation and it's a bullet we just have to bite.
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
thanks
hope i didnt rush the next 2 too much, I really do hope we could build this up.
jonathan chetwynd
jc@signbrowser.org.uk
IT teacher (learning difficulty)
&amp; accessibility consultant
