I've just starting working as a member of the Commission on Persons with
Disabilities in Alexandria, VA. I'm brainstorming about ways that the
Commission (and the City) can use WAI to increase accessibility for its
citizens. I thought a discussion of the topic of grass roots efforts
promoting WAI might benefit the whole list.
To get us started, here's a short list of what I have so far:
1. Official city page advertising its use of WAI guidelines
2. Work with chamber of commerce to promote use of WAI guidelines by
businesses with internet (e.g. Create COC Award, make use of WAI guidelines
an accreditation standard, etc.)
3. Work with ISPs, Web Designers located in city to promote WAI guidleines.
Any ideas that would flesh out what I've suggested or, even better, that are
entirely new would be great.
Thanks,
Chris
to follow up on what Christopher Marston said:
Number one, connect with grassroots, consumer-controlled
organizations that are people with disabilities in Alexandria
find worth belonging to, and work with them. We can help you
with the "how" once you learn from them "what" your goals should
be.
Is there an economic development office in Alexandria? Don't
stop with the Chamber of Commerce. Alexandria is the capital of
the associations industry. Team up with the Asociation of
Associations to develop and maintain the definitive courseware
unit on how Associations can capitalize on the Web. Their
Internet presence, a coordinated program of Web publishing,
accepting questions via email, etc., can make them more effective
and less costly to run. This is critical. The Associations
industry as we know it absolutely needs to re-tool to capitalize
on digital communications and information technology or it will
go elsewhere to people who have figured out how to do that.
Making information accessible to all is one lesson in this
program. Associations are an industry where sharing information
is the name of the game. If we can get the associations industry
tooled up with broadly accessible information technology, we can
reach anybody.
One of the products that associations typically deliver to their
members is tutorial literature dealing with "compliance" issues.
The accessibility of Website information is going to be one of
those compliance issues that their members need to deal with.
Association after association is going to need to know about this
topic to inform its membership. Many of those associations are
Alexandria taxpayers. Make sure it is easy for the associations
to get their customers the straight scoop.
You don't have to invent this expertise out of whole cloth. In
Alexandria you also have advocacy resources. I believe that the
NIB is located there. Find your local resources as well as those
[associations] who need this information. You make the
connections, and watch it happen.
Al Gilman
You may want to start off with the disability-related web sites
themselves, especially those in your immediate area,-- if it is similar
to my experience in the state of Georgia, many of them are not using
universal accessibility standards.
Other suggestions:
-- You will need to get the regional education and government web sites
on board as well.
-- As a method, I would really promote http://validator.w3.org/ to
webmasters as well as business owners, program directors, etc . . .
This site allows you to enter an url address and get feedback as
to how well it adheres to HTML 4.0. You could also use
which does a similar service (though I don't know if it is WAI
compliant. (Comments on 'bobby' anyone)?
In any event, this gives immediate feedback to the webmaster and
their bosses as to how UA their site is.
Good luck,
Wayne
P.S. Seeking editorial comment here: Seems to me that WAI and
universal accessibility is being addressed at the national and global
level quite adequately, but not so well at the region/state/community
level. Would love feedback on this.
Wayne Crotts
Network/Data Coordinator
Program on Human Development
&amp; Disability
A University Affiliated Program
University of Georgia
Athens, GA 30602
706-542-4968
