Issues-list item "DISPOSITION"
rom the Memphis minutes:
-- Content-Disposition will be added to the Appendix, as one
of a group of common MIME headers about which implementors should
be aware; Koen Holtman will draft the addition.
Here is a draft of the addition. This text is based on 1806 and on
messages in the mailing list archive. I have not tested this myself.
19.6.2.x Content-Disposition
The Content-Disposition response-header field has been proposed as
a means for the origin server to suggest a default filename if the
user requests that the content is saved to a file. This usage is
derived from the definition of Content-Disposition in RFC 1806.
content-disposition = "Content-Disposition" ":"
disposition-type *(";" disposition-parm)
disposition-type = "attachment" | disp-extension-token
disposition-parm = filename-parm | disp-extension-parm
filename-parm = "filename" "=" quoted-string
disp-extension-token = token
disp-extension-parm = token "=" ( token | quoted-string )
An example is
The receiving user agent should not respect any directory path
information that may seem to be present in the filename parameter.
The filename should be treated as a terminal component only.
If this header is used in a response with the
application/octet-stream content-type, the implied suggestion is
that the user agent should not display the response, but directly
enter a `save response as..' dialog.
1806 lists some security considerations:
Since this memo provides a way for the sender to suggest a filename,
a receiving MUA must take care that the sender's suggested filename
does not represent a hazard. Using UNIX as an example, some hazards
would be:
+ Creating startup files (e.g., ".login").
+ Creating or overwriting system files (e.g.,
"/etc/passwd").
+ Overwriting any existing file.
+ Placing executable files into any command search path
(e.g., "~/bin/more").
+ Sending the file to a pipe (e.g., "| sh").
In general, the receiving MUA should never name or place the file
such that it will get interpreted or executed without the user
explicitly initiating the action.
It is very important to note that this is not an exhaustive list; it
is intended as a small set of examples only. Implementors must be
alert to the potential hazards on their target systems.
I'm not sure what we should do about these. Should we repeat them in
the security considerations section of 1.1, or is that not necessary?
Koen.
From the Memphis minutes:
Is there some reason why
Entity-Header = ...
Content-Disposition ; defined by RFC 1806 [nn]
is not sufficient?
....Roy
Roy T. Fielding:
The proposed addition would answer a FAQ, a semi-obscure reference
would not.
Koen.
Subject: Re: Issues-list item "DISPOSITION"
I think WEBDAV is chartered to solve new problems like this one.
It's not.
-- End of excerpt from Larry Masinter
Thanks for the backup, and I'm not going crazy. I just spent the last day
reviewing the archives of WEBDAV and this topic of a UA using the C-D as a
suggested filename on download is somewhere in the new black hole that was
found.
I understand that the C-D section is a documentation of the current pratice.
But, what is the collective say of the WG about the future DISPOSITION
direction. I've initiated a private discussion with members of WEBDAV, but
who should be driving the bus? IMHO, the WG should since it is general
issue.
Kevin Dyer
Kevin J. DyerDraper Laboratory MS 23.
"Beware Geeks bearing GIFs" Author Unknown
