FYI - I don't think Mealling's XML registry draft has been discussed on
the list yet, so I wanted to point it out. It may be useful to register
custom WebDAV properties.
Lisa
A New Internet-Draft is available from the on-line Internet-Drafts
directories.
Title: The IETF XML Registry
Author(s): M. Mealling
Filename: draft-mealling-iana-xmlns-registry-04.txt
Pages: 7
This documenet describes an IANA maintained registry for IETF
standards which use XML related items such as Namespaces, DTD,
Schemas, and RDF Schemas.
A URL for this Internet-Draft is:
4.txt
To remove yourself from the IETF Announcement list, send a message to
ietf-announce-request with the word unsubscribe in the body of the
message.
Internet-Drafts are also available by anonymous FTP. Login with the
username
"anonymous" and a password of your e-mail address. After logging in,
type "cd internet-drafts" and then
"get draft-mealling-iana-xmlns-registry-04.txt".
A list of Internet-Drafts directories can be found in
or ftp://ftp.ietf.org/ietf/1shadow-sites.txt
Internet-Drafts can also be obtained by e-mail.
Send a message to:
mailserv@ietf.org.
In the body type:
"FILE
/internet-drafts/draft-mealling-iana-xmlns-registry-04.txt".
NOTE:The mail server at ietf.org can return the document in
MIME-encoded form by using the "mpack" utility. To use this
feature, insert the command "ENCODING mime" before the "FILE"
command. To decode the response(s), you will need "munpack" or
a MIME-compliant mail reader. Different MIME-compliant mail
readers
exhibit different behavior, especially when dealing with
"multipart" MIME messages (i.e. documents which have been split
up into multiple messages), so check your local documentation on
how to manipulate these messages.
Below is the data which will enable a MIME compliant mail reader
implementation to automatically retrieve the ASCII version of the
Internet-Draft.
I'm not sure... this is a registry for namespace names, DTD identifiers, XML
schemas or RDF schemas -- not for specific element names. How do you think
it can be applied to WebDAV properties?
Well, one possibility is that a set of custom WebDAV properties (or at
the limit, just one) could be expressed in an XML schema, and that
schema could be registered. Another possibility is that committed
individuals could work with Mealling to see if it's feasible for the
registry specification to include specific element names.
lisa
I'm not sure... this is a registry for namespace names, DTD identifiers,
XML
schemas or RDF schemas -- not for specific element names. How do you
think
it can be applied to WebDAV properties?
on
register
I know that a property registry has been on the to-do list for a long time,
yet I'm not sure what the goal would be.
For DAV: properties, I think we have established that they MUST be defined
in a WebDAV related RFC. It may make sense to come up with an informational
document that lists all RFC2518/RFC3253/RFC(ACL) properties, but do
third-party properties really need a registry?
In the general case, I'd expect that the creator of a new property will use
it's namespace name to make a namespace description document (for instance
in RDDL) available. Do we really need more?
