Here's what I've come up with for the 4.X stuff:
1. I've changed the checkpoint to make it more similar to others in GL4.
2. I've added a new sentence to the rationale from Karen's email (marked
by **)
3. I've added a potential success criteria.
4.X Ensure that *accessibility prompting, checking, repair functions and
documentation* are integrated into the overall workflow when an author
develops Web Content. (Priority 2)
RATIONALE:
Accessible design as an afterthought or separate process is much more
onerous and therefore costly than when accessibility is considered from
the start. *Experienced authors develop workflows, familiar and
consistently successful routines, with their authoring tools.* If the
authoring tool supports a workflow in which the author considers
accessibility before and/or during the authoring process it is more
likely that accessible authoring practices will become a common
practice.
SUCCESS CRITERIA
* If the user begins a Web content editing session, performs edits that
introduce accessibility problems, saves and then exits an editing
session, the tool must have, at some point, intervened in a reasonably
obvious way with one or more accessibility prompting, checking, repair
or documentation features relevant to those accessibility problem.
I realize that the success criteria is a bit spartan. However, the range
of conceivable workflows for all the different types of tools and
operations that might be performed with them is very large. Moreover, we
are quite clear about the need for user configurability, which
complicates the situation.
Thoughts on any of this?
Cheers,
Jan
Jan Richards, User Interface Design Specialist
Adaptive Technology Resource Centre (ATRC), University of Toronto
Web: http://ultrajuan.ic.utoronto.ca/jan/richards.html
For success criteria, "at some point -during the editing session-" (add
last part)? Also is there any way to quantify "reasonably obvious
way"? Term seems somewhat subjective.
Great job!
Tim Boland NIST
Hi Tim,
I made your changes. Does "presented" work? I suppose it will need to be
defined. Here is how it reads:
If the user begins a Web content editing session, performs edits that
introduce accessibility problems, saves and then exits an editing
session, then the tool must have, at some point during the editing
session, PRESENTED the user with relevant prompting,
checking, repair or documentation features.
Cheers,
Jan
