All,
a reminder that our next meeting is tomorrow. Following a suggestion
from Bjoern, we now have a drafty wiki page for QA-dev, where we'll be
able to all read/edit agenda, action items, etc.
For the reference, tomorrow's meeting will be held
- 16:30 UK,
- 17:30 France / Germany / Norway,
- 18:30 Finland,
- 11:30 Montreal (I'm in Montreal/Boston this week)
olivier
Point of order: I just corrected a typo on there (under 1.4.2 you had
"Mew interface"), and it made no attempt to verify who I am. That
seems to me perhaps excessively open.
BTW, on action items, I've installed mod_validator @qa-dev, but have
a few problems with it. Watch this space.
Nick Kew
Nick's manifesto: http://www.htmlhelp.com/~nick/
It did log who you were (your host at least) and kept a diff.
That seems to me perhaps excessively open.
That's the idea of a wiki, yes.
Excessively open, which is generally ok for some types of content.
olivier
Summary of new Action Items:
Action Item (Ville): send 0.6.6 bug roundup/status/plan - qa-dev
Action Item (olivier): harmonization of checklink's layout based on
current markup validator
Summary of discussions:
* Markup Validator
New design caused a lot of reactions - good and bad -. Style can be
improved still, and we will welcome suggestions, although small
modifications will be much more likely to be accepted than larger,
radical re-designs, and as usual, it's best to submit a patch.
,text and ,tablin in Jump bar not very popular, they'll be replaced as
we move toward better multiple output. Some discussion on using XSLT
for that, Bjoern/Nick interested in doing it, though no immediate plan
to do this before we complete modularization.
- 0.6.6 release within 1/2 weeks (without beta), including minor fixes.
Ville will lead the bug roundup.
- 0.6.5 merged with HEAD (with template code), result in the process
of being fixed.
- goal for 0.7: get rid of all inline HTML not needed
- modularization is next big goal
* Link Checker
A few bugs left to fix, and the interface to be modified to be
reasonably consistent with Markup Validator, then we'll proceed with a
release
* Others
Bugzilla will be upgraded soon, then CVSWeb (Ville and olivier to
coordinate)
Log attached, as usual.
olivier
