To The Group -
I cannot recall who it was that posted a message a few weeks ago about
conformance claims and the fact that site developers are claiming to have
met some level of WCAG 1.0 when in fact they fall short. My concern is that
many site developers will boast the claim but NOT actually meet the
guidelines. A bigger issue is - why do they think they passed in the first
place? Many of the sites I've looked at could not have tested with a tool
as they had no declared DOC TYPE and the pages would not parse. So - I
assume they did some sort of manual check and assumed they met criteria.
As we work on WCAG 2.0, I am guessing that there will be many individuals
(well intentioned individuals) who will claim they have met conformance
levels but have not. Is this an education and outreach issue or one we need
to talk about in terms of content? If web developers think they are doing
"it" right and they are not (in terms of adherence to the guidelines) -
something is possibly missing (on our part). Or, possibly, something was
"simply" overlooked when the site was checked for conformance.
I am not sure there is an answer to these questions or concerns but have
been paying attention to those sites that claim to meet WCAG 1.0 and have
done machine and manual tests to determine the validity of the claims.
Doyle Burnett
Doyle Burnett
Education and Training Specialist
Multiple Disabilities Program
Special Education Service Agency
dburnett@sesa.org
Www.sesa.org
have
It was me :)
first
tool
I
criteria.
individuals
conformance
we need
doing
guidelines) -
was
have
have
For personal experience (I represent inside W3C IWA/HWG, the world
biggest association of web professional), web develpers that don't work
directly in accessibility initiatives, for reach the "minimum level of
accessibility" only made the "Bobby" or other automatic testing tool
validation.
This is wrong also because these tools are not the "panacea" for the
validation: for eg. a lot of these don't validate CSS so there is the pr
oblem that if I use fixed size font the validator said me "xxxx approved
for level AA" but if the font are fixed size i cannot declare level 2.
The best to do is to create a policy maker (like this one:
good faith declare what points its work reached.
have
have
I wanna point also the focus about "Certification" of WCAG.
There are lot of companies that are starting the "WAB" (Web
Accessibility Business)...
Today I've found this example: http://www.nfb.org/seal/wacs.htm and i
think that there would be also other countries that will develop their
certification program.
I've also post in the AC Representative list this proposal: why don't
add in the copyright section and / or in the "Conformance Claims" a text
similar to this one:
"Certification
The materials contained in this web site must be considered as
guidelines. No certification programs could be start using this material
without a prior agreement with the World Wide Web Consortium".
There are some tools around that allow the user to validate manually - this
feature is starting to be integrated into automatic testing toools as well. I
know that it is a part of HiSoftware's tools, and supervised some students
integrating it into the Open source WAI-Nu evaluation tool.
I got "not found" trying to follow the link below, but I also have produceed
a tool for declaring point by point which checkpoints are met. It uses
Xforms, so you need a browser capable of handling them - there are plugins
avaiable for "current" browsers, and there are browsers that handle them
natively such as DENG and Xsmiles.
explains what I am doing, and there are several development versions with
more interesting features that don't necvessarily work yet.
cheers
Chaals
