[was found unsent on our not-so-smartlist server yesterday]
------- Forwarded Message
Date: Wed, 09 Jul 1997 21:15:28 -0400
From: Mike Paciello paciello@yuri.org
Subject: ALT Description
Mime-Version: 1.0
(Folks: I sent this to the ICADD WG earlier this week. I realized today
that I registered on the WAI via my
ISP's e-mail address. So this orginal message was rejected. I'm resending
today)
WG Folks:
When we left Sophia, George Kerscher and I were asked by the WAI to go back
to the ICADD working group and work out the requirements for multiple
levels of description to elements (table, image, sound). Guidelines were to
include, long and short, use and content, and language.
George and I briefly discussed possibilities and minimum standards.
However, the recent discussions on the WAI WG list have led me to believe
that this requires much deeper level of discussion then we had considered.
Certainly several of the recent suggestions should be considered.
Here are my brief suggestions to ensure that we get this task done this week:
1. ICADD and WAI WG member that want to be involved, please follow WAI WG
listserv all week. I believe this is a decent forum for us to discuss things.
2. Can someone tell me what the maximum character string length is for the
ALT attribute in HTML 3.2? Is it 256 characters? I spent all week trying to
find this in the spec to no avail. I believe this could contribute to the
minimum standard as currently specified.
3. Can we start the discussion using this agenda:
1. Determining the minimum default standard (which right now is null.
Should it be the image file name?)
2. Determining the recommended minimum guideline (different from a standard)
4. We can then work on optimum/maximum guidleines.
Sorry for dragging on this....on my "off" days I have a Foundation to
direct :-)
- - Mike
Michael G. Paciello Executive Director,
E-Mail: mailto:paciello@yuri.org Yuri Rubinsky Insight Foundation
Please Make a Tax-Deductible Donation: http://www.yuri.org/donate.html
------- End of Forwarded Message
The HTML 4.0 draft gives a list of priorities which determine how a client
should acquire the ALT text if no ALT attribute has been specified
explicitly. Perhaps it could serve as the point of departure for this
discussion.
Yes, Dave did an good job at incorporating our input and we need to
review this section and build on it.
This is specified in the SGML declaration. The intention is that
user agents should avoid fixed limits for attribute values. I will
try to alter the 4.0 spec to make this clearer.
Regards,
-- Dave Raggett dsr@w3.org http://www.w3.org/People/Raggett
World Wide Web Consortium (on assignment from HP Labs)
