A meeting of groups involved in digital talking books is being held
immediately before the Boston W3C WAI meeting on Monday, August 4th, from
10:00 am to 12:30 pm in room 518, W3C/MIT LCS.
The purpose of the meeting is to discuss the convergence of digital talking
books with the internet. Several ongoing activities of the W3C, in
particular, HTML 4.0 and Synchronized Multimedia, are of considerable
importance to the talking book efforts globally. We plan, during this
meeting, to develop a strategy for providing input into W3C to ensure that
the requirements of the talking book community are addressed. This strategy
will then be presented to W3C and WAI.
We apologize for the short notice of this meeting. If you can attend,
please join us. Let me know of your planned attendence via e-mail or
telephone. If you cannot attend, but are interested in the meeting, we will
be recording the session (if there are no objections) and can make it
available to you. Also, information will be posted to the web and you will
be notified when it becomes available.
At present we have representatives from RFB&amp;D, NLS, DAISY, RNIB, and NCR
attending, with others invited. We look forward to your participation.
If are unable to attend, but wish to submit comments or questions for
discussion, please email me before Sunday night (Aug 3), and so that we may
include them in the meeting.
Regards,
Mark
Markku T. Hakkinen
The Productivity Works, Inc.
Trenton, New Jersey USA
Microsoft has been working on a method for synchronized text/images
called SAMI (Synchronized Accessible Media Interchange) due out by the
end of this year. SAMI is used for closed caption and audio description
support in Web and multimedia titles. The specification has been
released to the public. I am not a member of the WAI committee but would
be happy to attend a meeting to demo our new technology. SAMI will be
freely available for anyone to use. Let me know if you are interested in
a demo. I can not make this upcoming meeting but should be available for
future meetings. A working specification (Zip'ed RTF or Word97 file) is
available for anyone who can receive e-mail attachments and is
interested.
David A. Bolnick
Accessibility Program Manager: Multimedia &amp; Telecommunications
Microsoft Corporation, One Microsoft Way, Redmond, WA 98052
E-mail: davebo@microsoft.com Web: http://microsoft.com/enable/
A meeting of groups involved in digital talking books is being
held
immediately before the Boston W3C WAI meeting on Monday, August
4th, from
10:00 am to 12:30 pm in room 518, W3C/MIT LCS.
The purpose of the meeting is to discuss the convergence of
digital talking
books with the internet. Several ongoing activities of the W3C,
in
particular, HTML 4.0 and Synchronized Multimedia, are of
considerable
importance to the talking book efforts globally. We plan,
during this
meeting, to develop a strategy for providing input into W3C to
ensure that
the requirements of the talking book community are addressed.
This strategy
will then be presented to W3C and WAI.
We apologize for the short notice of this meeting. If you can
attend,
please join us. Let me know of your planned attendence via
e-mail or
telephone. If you cannot attend, but are interested in the
meeting, we will
be recording the session (if there are no objections) and can
make it
available to you. Also, information will be posted to the web
and you will
be notified when it becomes available.
At present we have representatives from RFB&amp;D, NLS, DAISY, RNIB,
and NCR
attending, with others invited. We look forward to your
participation.
If are unable to attend, but wish to submit comments or
questions for
discussion, please email me before Sunday night (Aug 3), and so
that we may
include them in the meeting.
Regards,
Mark
Markku T. Hakkinen
The Productivity Works, Inc.
Trenton, New Jersey USA
to follow up on what David Bolnick said:
These are proprietary formats. When do you plan to make the document
publicly available?
Al Gilman
