I have reviewed the WAI page below, it has not been very pleasant.
Please accept my apologies if I offend the authors.
There is much that is great, but it is very well hidden.
I really hope I found the right page folks.
I personally find the page http://www.w3.org/WAI/ very poorly designed.
Jonathan, I will agree with you that it is not well designed, but
I am not certain that I would consider all of these problems to
be -accessibility- issues as much as -usability- issues. In other
words, I think the problems are of a different type than access
to the disabled; I feel that in many ways the problems are simply
with being usable by -anyone-, disability or not.
Keep the language simple, and I will endeavour to source the symbols once we
have agreed the text.
If we limited ourselves to a flick book style with no cross links, we could
for this first draft possibly skip navigation, perhaps limiting ourselves to
a site identifier.
Okay, my problem here is that many people, myself included, use
the WAI home page as a starting point to locate resources. I don't
want to have a straight linear "flip book" style for navigating
through the site, as I feel that will decrease overall usability.
A flip book -can- exist but if it is the only means of access to
the site, then there's a problem.
Alternatively you may all feel that creating a site that meets the needs of
ordinary users, rather than technical users might be more urgent.
I think the audience needs to be defined. Before we start looking
at redesigning any site, we need to consider who our audience is
going to be and what technical level we expect them to have.
REVIEW FOLLOWS
Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI)
this logo could be about the same size as the text above or smaller and have
more impact if well designed.
Open question: I've considered commissioning a logo for the HTML
Writers Guild's AWARE Center (http://www.awarecenter.org/) but I
have not been able to decide what correctly symbolizes "web
accessibility." Can Jonathan or anyone else define what an
-appropriate- symbol would be?
(No, I don't consider a globe with a keyhole on it to be anything
other than arbitrary in this case...)
Resources | Events | Technical Activity | International Program Office |
Involvement/Information | Team |  Sponsors
The navigation bar is meaningless to a first time visitor, and I suggest
should not be on the home or splash page.
This assumption holds if we expect the majority of our audience to
be first time visitors. I don't think we've established that.
In fact not within our 300 words.
One link somewhere will lead out for those that have understood what comes
before.
Or, on the other hand, we could have a prominent "Is this your first
time? Go here for an intro to WAI!" link before the navigation. That
could lead into your proposed flip book.
March 10, 2000: User Agent Accessibility Guidelines become Proposed
Recommendation
What does this mean to a first time visitor? This is far too internally
focused for a public site it is something from an intranet in the wrong
place
Once more, I'm not sure we -are- looking for the first-time visitor.
The WAI site has to be a resource for WAI participants, and that may
be more important than meeting the needs of first time visitors, who
may be better served on a site like -- tooting my own horn -- the
AWARE Center, which -is- designed for non-technical web designers.
February 3, 2000: Authoring Tool Accessibility Guidelines 1.0 become W3C
Recommendation
ATAG Press Release, Testimonials, and Fact Sheet available
as above
I don't think this is "internal" news, this is clearly external
news.
"The power of the Web is in its universality. Access by everyone regardless
of disability is an essential  aspect."
-- Tim Berners-Lee, W3C Director and inventor of the World Wide Web
Excellent this is probably sufficient for a splash.
"The web is for everyone.
We must help everyone to use it" with a photo (very small) or better line
drawing of Tim)
please improve on the above
Question: Why would a picture or photograph of Tim increase the
comprehension of this page? Especially since the huge majority
of people don't know him by sight; I can't see how this helps
apart from arbitrary decoration.
Now, as far as arbitrary decoration goes, this isn't that bad,
and it does add a humanizing factor to the page -- but I see that
as general usability and not accessibility for people with
disabilities.
Mission
The W3C's commitment to lead the Web to its full potential includes
promoting a high degree of usability for  people with disabilities. The Web
Accessibility Initiative (WAI), in coordination with organizations around
the  world, is pursuing
OK so this is where my page ran out. this makes the whole page very
difficult to understand.
What do you mean about where the page ran out?
Well over 60% of the content was irrelevant to a first time visitor.
Again, this may not be a bad thing...
accessibility of the Web through five primary areas of work: technology,
guidelines, tools, education &amp;  outreach, and research &amp; development.
Why does neither the navigation bar nor the next section "Resources on Web
Accessibility " follow the mission statement? There is not any point in
making this list and then confusing people by immediately ignoring it.
This is a good point but not, as I see it, a usability issue
again. When you start making lists like this, you probably
should follow through on them later, as it shows a default
structure for the content of the page. The WAI pages are not
very good on information structure.
Resources on Web Accessibility
I do not propose to go through all of this in detail.
Suffice to say it is full of acronyms that are meaningless to the novice.
Agreed. The use of acronyms makes this hard to understand; I
would say that they need to be spelled out whenever possible,
which is to say, nearly all the time, and inline acronym notation
(IAN) should be used constantly.
complain of navigation icons if you will this is at least as bad.
Not sure I understand this comment.
Getting Started: Making a Web Site Accessible
Quick Tips for Accessible Web Sites
Hooray! these should be next after the splash, (which I think may cover the
mission) and here they are. unfortunately the pages they link to need work.
I agree with you on the location here, and in fact I might move them
up one. Actually, I'd scrap the whole WAI home page and redo it
from the start, myself. :)
It was not Tatlin (a russian revolutionary artist), but someone very famous
with a simiar name within the UK CD world pointed out many years ago that it
was not possible to write about CD from a purely academic viewpoint, one had
to engage in it.
Can you explain how to "engage in it"?
Kynn Bartlett kynn@idyllmtn.com http://www.kynn.com/
Director of Accessibility, edapta http://www.edapta.com/
Chief Technologist, Idyll Mountain Internet http://www.idyllmtn.com/
AWARE Center Director http://www.awarecenter.org/
Next of Kynn: a quasi-regular web log http://www.kynn.com/next/
Well I have to agree with Kynn that most of my concerns are about the
usability of the WAI homepage and site in general.
Mission
The W3C's commitment to lead the Web to its full potential includes
promoting a high degree of usability for
people with disabilities...
This for me gives the game away. We state that we are concerned with
usability, but who has the site been tested on?
It is obvious to me at least that it has been tested on techies.
So at the very best we are saying " look folks a site thats accessible to
techies"
whereas the hype would have you believe we are concerned for all.
Usability means tested, and the WAI site has just not been tested on people
who are starting out.
I'd like to see a home page that had everything, sound, symbols, ASL, real
video, you name it, AND degraded well with cross browser compatibility.
In the meantime I believe the techies will quickly find the deliberate
cheats through to techno heaven and the masses can learn the basics of what
WAI is about both by example and content.
Let me tell you an experience from today.
A very old and dear friend of mine,is a special needs teacher, she has had a
computer about a year.
I spoke to her today on the phone, and she had been trying to show the site
to a mutual friend.
She had my email address in her book jay@peepo.com so she had got as far as
www.jay@peepo.com as a possible site address.
Anyway the fact was she is obviously confused.
These are the bedrock of people trying to find a way of using the web to
share information and enable CD clients. Without doubt in the top 10% of
staff working directly with CD, and of above average intelligence for the
UK.
They desperately need good information, and WAI should be the place to come.
If we need another project fine, I am happy to jump ship, but I believe it
needs to be in the W3C family, and pretty closely related to WAI.
jay@peepo.com
special needs teacher
web accessibility consultant
I'm not convinced it's been tested on -anyone-. I don't find this
site acceptable for most people who could be considered the core
audience for the WAI site -- and I'm also not convinced that the
WAI has -defined- that core audience.
However, I'd better stop here, as our goal is to find a good
example site rather than beat up on whoever has responsibility for
the WAI site. Whether or not I find it acceptable (and I don't),
we need to remember that our purpose is understanding issues of
accessibility for people with disabilities, and not critiquing
the WAI site. :)
Kynn Bartlett kynn@idyllmtn.com http://www.kynn.com/
Director of Accessibility, edapta http://www.edapta.com/
Chief Technologist, Idyll Mountain Internet http://www.idyllmtn.com/
AWARE Center Director http://www.awarecenter.org/
Next of Kynn: a quasi-regular web log http://www.kynn.com/next/
An important point to remember is that what is usability for a large group of
people may amount to accessibilty for a smaller group. THink of curb-cuts in
the physical world...
Charles McCN
I have reviewed the WAI page below, it has not been very pleasant.
Please accept my apologies if I offend the authors.
There is much that is great, but it is very well hidden.
I really hope I found the right page folks.
I personally find the page http://www.w3.org/WAI/ very poorly designed.
Jonathan, I will agree with you that it is not well designed, but
I am not certain that I would consider all of these problems to
be -accessibility- issues as much as -usability- issues. In other
words, I think the problems are of a different type than access
to the disabled; I feel that in many ways the problems are simply
with being usable by -anyone-, disability or not.
But it's also to remember that not all usability problems faced by
people with disabilities are automatically accessibility problems.
For example, the user interface to the HWG's online education program
is generally pretty poor -- it confuses people (blind and non-blind
students alike) but when someone who is blind asked me if our
interface is accessible, I answered, yes, it is -accessible-, because
it's equally unusable by people with or without disabilities!
So while I agree that there are some areas of overlap between
"usability for a larger group and accessibility for a smaller group,"
I caution us to remember that this is not a general rule.
Kynn Bartlett kynn@idyllmtn.com http://www.kynn.com/
Director of Accessibility, edapta http://www.edapta.com/
Chief Technologist, Idyll Mountain Internet http://www.idyllmtn.com/
AWARE Center Director http://www.awarecenter.org/
Next of Kynn: a quasi-regular web log http://www.kynn.com/next/
group of
So if we would make tall enough barriers instead of curb-cuts they would be
accessible because everybody would suffer or not accessible if there could
still be couple of very athletic people jumping over?
I think that especially when we start thinking about CD, usability becomes
a greater issue for accessibility. In my opinion a non-usable site (for
generic users) cannot be very accessible for disabled. Usually the site is
designed for some purpose and if no-one can achieve their goals does not
help users with special needs at all.
Ofcourse usability can be defined and measured in many ways so there might
be some cases were I agree with you. For instance, it might be that users
not relying on visual information might find an otherwise non-usable
graphic site accessible. But I wouldn't call the site generally accessible
(or usable) in that case. It would just be accessible for that user group,
in that context for achieving certain goals.
Marja
To take this back to the discussion it came from:
There are people who have various disabilities which make them much more
prone to confusion (short term memory problems, inability to concentrate for
long periods, difficulty understanding things in textual form, and a range of
other functional limitations). For these people, becuase of their disability,
it is significantly more difficult to cope with a site that has poor
information structure. As a direct result of their particular disabilities.
Charles McCN
But it's also to remember that not all usability problems faced by
people with disabilities are automatically accessibility problems.
For example, the user interface to the HWG's online education program
is generally pretty poor -- it confuses people (blind and non-blind
students alike) but when someone who is blind asked me if our
interface is accessible, I answered, yes, it is -accessible-, because
it's equally unusable by people with or without disabilities!
So while I agree that there are some areas of overlap between
"usability for a larger group and accessibility for a smaller group,"
I caution us to remember that this is not a general rule.
Kynn Bartlett kynn@idyllmtn.com http://www.kynn.com/
Director of Accessibility, edapta http://www.edapta.com/
Chief Technologist, Idyll Mountain Internet http://www.idyllmtn.com/
AWARE Center Director http://www.awarecenter.org/
Next of Kynn: a quasi-regular web log http://www.kynn.com/next/
W3C Web Accessibility Initiative http://www.w3.org/WAI
Location: I-cubed, 110 Victoria Street, Carlton VIC 3053
Postal: GPO Box 2476V, Melbourne 3001, Australia
