Wat is Web Accessibility?
A website or Web application becomes accessible when:
- it presents all its content in a manner that helps understanding while
being navigable, operable and perceivable by all users; and
- individuals with disabilities with the aid of special computer-access
technology if any, can direct the course of and attain the outcome offered
byWeb content as effectively (or successfully) as individuals without
disabilities.
Web accessibility is enhanced when software used to build websites (or
authoring tools) can be effectively operated through special
computer-access technologies used by some people with disabilities.
The use of W3C Web technologies like HTML, CSS, SMIL, etc.,supportsWeb
accessibility.
Rationale:
- casts "understandability" in a different way that I hope is more
acceptable
- introduces concept of "equivalent facilitation"- equality of access by PWD
and non-PWD. I think this is important and has been absent in the
discussions and definition so far
- brings the thrust on PWD as is the focus of WAI
- Authoring tool accessibility is covered but separately from Web content.
In the earlier draft the way it was worded, it appeared to be a qualifier
for access technologies- "including technologies used by some
people with disabilities, to access the Web and to build accessible
Websites "
- separates the "what is accessibility" from "how it is to be done"
- The structure has been changed somewhat but I could not make it work any
other way. However, as I recall, it addresses all our specs.
Thanks for your time and patience.
Regards,
Sailesh Panchang
Senior Accessibility Engineer
Deque Systems Inc,
* Pioneering Information Accessibility *
Web: http://www.deque.com
E-mail: sailesh.panchang@deque.com
Hello All,
I like Sailesh's wording describing understanding. The plural word,
'helps', indicates both multiple options and a framework that facilitates.
Doyle Saylor
Some in-line comments below, while trying to re-examine this &amp; trying to
come up w/ new slide.
JB: Am concerned about the addition of the equivalent facilitation here
given that it is not a concept that is well developed in the W3C/WAI area,
and comes more from a policy setting. Yes I realize that this can be an
important concept in some settings, but it begs the question of how "as
effectively" or "as successfully" might be measured with regard to general
Web usage (as opposed to within, for instance, a specific office setting,
where the tasks/functions of people in different positions are known, etc.).
JB: Leaves out whether that authoring software is operable by people with
disabilities who may not need assistive technologies, and also whether
authoring software is available that supports the production of accessible
Web sites.
JB: Might be taken as implying that support for accessibility in non-W3C
technologies is not a part of achieving Web accessibility.
JB: Interesting direction. Seems that it would need to be more specific though.
JB: See comment above.
JB: Yes
JB: OK
JB: Right
JB: Yes
Judy Brewer +1.617.258.9741 http://www.w3.org/WAI
Director, Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI), World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)
MIT/LCS Room NE43-355, 200 Technology Square, Cambridge, MA, 02139, USA
