all the useful tools I know of are human in the loop and partial-mapping base
d
cross ontology reasoning is the thing that makes Semantic Web different from
all
other AI ontology work to date
These statements make a lot of sense to me. At the same time, they do not sound
very encouraging as far as the Semantic Web is concerned.
Unless the Semantic Web limits itself to a fairly small set of "canonical" onto
logies (which is highly unlikely, given the open-ended nature of the Web itself
), then the need of having humans in the loop seems to indicate that cross onto
logy reasoning within the Semantic Web is a very impractical goal right from th
e start.
Ugo
all the useful tools I know of are human in the loop and partial-mapping
based
cross ontology reasoning is the thing that makes Semantic Web different
from all
other AI ontology work to date
These statements make a lot of sense to me. At the same time, they do not
sound very encouraging as far as the Semantic Web is concerned.
Unless the Semantic Web limits itself to a fairly small set of "canonical"
ontologies (which is highly unlikely, given the open-ended nature of the Web
itself), then the need of having humans in the loop seems to indicate that
cross ontology reasoning within the Semantic Web is a very impractical goal
right from the start.
Hmm, there are different ways you can read "humans in the loop". It may only
be that they are needed once, to set up the mapping, after which the
machines can be left to their own devices (so to speak).
Cheers,
Danny.
all the useful tools I know of are human in the loop and partial-mapping ba
sed
cross ontology reasoning is the thing that makes Semantic Web different fro
m all
other AI ontology work to date
not sound very encouraging as far as the Semantic Web is concerned.
I have heard this before. Well, the problem of ontology mapping was not
introduced by the semantic web. Its been around for a very long time.
Its just that the semantic web has brought it the fore front.
i Unless the Semantic Web limits itself to a fairly small set of
"canonical" ontologies (which is highly unlikely, given the open-ended nature o
f the Web itself), then the need of having humans in the loop seems to indicate
that cross ontology reasoning within the Semantic Web is a very impractical go
al right from the start.
Folks, it seems to me that there is altogether too much pessimism
being expressed on this topic. The fact that 'cross-ontology
reasoning' poses problems is undeniable, but ask yourself what the
reason for it has been. If you take two people and tell them to
formalize ontologies describing some domain, without communicating
with one another, the chances are close to zero that they will
produce formally compatible ontologies. Until now this has been the
normal way to proceed, and the results have been predictable. But it
seems to me that the advent of the semantic web, simply by placing
ontologies on the WWWeb in public view, will in itself provide a
practical cure. Already, the sane way to approach writing an
ontology is to first check to see if there is one already written
that you can use, perhaps with some modifications. If there is not,
you write your own: but even then, if you find that you need a
concept of, say, AUTHOR, then it is easy to check to see whether
someone already has a suitable notion formalized, or even simply
registered, and to use that one in your ontology also. The Dublin
Core terminology is widely used for example and has thereby, from
this wide use, acquired a formal meaning which one could not actually
derive from the 'defining' ontology itself (which in this case
consists of little more than a vocabulary with English comments): the
very act of 're-using' a term in another ontology *in itself* adds to
the global suite of formally described information about the concept.
In this way, the SWeb can, I suggest, become a kind of evolving,
growing global ontology representing a large-scale consensus, rather
than a huge collection of independently written ontologies requiring
constant human intervention to translate between them.
This optimism depends of course on thinking that people will re-use
concepts in this way. But the real reason for optimism is that there
is no reason not to do this, and every reason to do it. Human
language evolved because it is useful to be understood and to
understand: the ability to communicate benefits both ends of the
communication channel. So writers of ontological content for the
SWeb, and users (readers) of that content, will all feel the economic
pressure to re-use existing content as far as possible, so that they
can be understood and can understand one another. All this pessimism
seems to me to be like worrying that if people were all to invent
their own language, communication would be very difficult. Which is
true, but only relevant if there is any reason to think that people
are likely to do that: and there isn't.
Pat Hayes
IHMC (850)434 8903 or (650)494 3973 home
40 South Alcaniz St. (850)202 4416 office
FL 32501 (850)291 0667 cell
phayes@ihmc.us http://www.ihmc.us/users/phayes
all the useful tools I know of are human in the loop and partial-mapping
cross ontology reasoning is the thing that makes Semantic Web different
other AI ontology work to date
or like search engines - a bunch of stuff can happen in the
background to make it easier to find potential matches and things,
but at some point a human may be asked to help make choices - goal of
machines on the web aren't always to get 100% correct answers but to
help humans with their needs in managing this humongous info space
btw, although I am probably one of the main proponents of the many
linked ontology vision, and think the eventual success of the SW will
reside to a large degree in many linked vocabularies being used by
combinations of humans and machines, there's a lot of value in the
near future for single ontology applications, or the use of
ontology/instance mappings (for example in photo search applications)
and thus I don't think "the success of the semantic web" hangs on the
cross ontology stuff -- the eventual ubiquity of the SW probably
does, but we have a couple years till I expect to see that :-
Professor James Hendler http://www.cs.umd.edu/users/hendler
Director, Semantic Web and Agent Technologies 301-405-2696
Univ of Maryland, College Park, MD 20742 240-277-3388 (Cell)
