[This has mainly to do with keeping an administrative track of what
tags one uses, and is therefore more of an implementation and usage
matter than a syntax issue. N.B. I would not have much of a problem
with any of this, but you can see that the W3C or some large
organization would have to be very careful indeed in its tag
policies.]
The main question that I want to address in this email is,
"could/should one mint a tag for an event occurring on e.g. 1-3-8 on
1-3-18?".
This all stems from one of the most interesting aspects of the "tag:"
delegation, which is its dependence upon the notion of "tag time",
i.e. one particular day on or after 1st January 2001. This raises the
question: how specific is this particular unit of time given the
resources that it is binded to? For example, I had always considered
the date-stamping of URIs as popularized by the W3C to simply mean
"what on 2001/03 we referred to as EARL" for /2001/03/earl/ (this is
supported by a quote from "Cool URIs Don't Change" [1]). That is until
I saw the TANN URI proposal [2], which states:-
An example: W3C obtained "w3.org" on 1994-07-06. Had this TANN scheme
been in place, W3C might have used "tann:1994-07-06,w3.org," for the
first few weeks. If it wanted, come August 1 it could switch to
"tann:1994-07,w3.org,". Come Jan 1, it could switch to
"tann:1995,w3.org," which would be a good name to use until some
problem arose. If in July of 2000 (say), it realized a wholely new
organization and policy was needed, it could start using
"tann:2000,w3.org,". Also, if some need arose for a temporary
namespace, an arbitrary narrow time could be used, like
"tann:2000-01-01-00-00-00.00001,w3.org,". (This is probably best
avoided by using sensable namespace policies.)
This implies that the shorter the time period, the more whimsical the
resource being identified. It also implies that long time periods are
very broad, and should have distinct namespace policies. In other
words, "1" would be something which is used "until some problem
arises". However, this seems to go against the flow that each date
component in a tag identifies a particular *day* and not a longer
period of time. This appears to be something that has changed in the
transition from tann = tag, and yet some of the semantics of tann are
being alluded to, i.e. that the more general the resource, the shorter
the date component in the tag. Thus, although the first day of a
particular day is still just a day, it could be envisaged as having
some kind of special meaning in that it is a very general identifier
that has a certain namespace policy, whereas three part date
components are for more pointed identifications.
As a practical example, earlier today, I looked out of my window onto
the lawn outside to see a blackbird hopping around... let's mint a tag
to identify that particular blackbird:-
tag://sean@mysterylights.com;1-4-28/blackbird
Now, the only reason that I should ever want to reuse that URI is if I
saw possibly another blackbird on the same day, or if I wanted to
issue some other remark about a blackbird. However, due to
persistence, that URI is now bonded to that particular resource, so
what would I use to represent another blackbird? What if I want to
refer to the concept of the blackbird in the 1-4-28 tag in a different
context; would I use the date where I create that new context? One
idea would be to use the date of something in that path itself (e.g.
tag://sean@mysterylights.com;1-4-28/2001-4-10/myconcept) which
identifies the "myconcept" on that particular date, but that goes
against the flow of having a dating system for the authority component
in the first place. However, in some cases (e.g. for dates before
2001) this would probably be necessary. Still, the general rule still
holds true that, "concepts that one rarely refer to should have the
three tier part, whereas the broader concepts get the 1sts".
One problem with using "1" as a very generic namespace is that if I
want to create a very whimsical term on that date, I have to be wary
of the policy for using "1" which I will no doubt want to use again.
In this case, you could just prepend a "1" to the path or something;
no big deal. In other words, there is a big difference between "The
Simpsons" and "the episode of Simpsons I watched on a particular day".
In actual fact, I think that unless this is some *really* important
namespace, reusing the 1st of January namespace is a bit lazy; simply
not wanting to type a few extra digits. Why not use a slightly more
specific URI if it clears up the confusion?
Still, there are some advantages to using the date part as put out in
the TANN proposal: i.e. that tags could then point to any kind of
concept: from those well thought out (using shorter date components)
to those which are thought up quickly, and may only apply for a short
time period. For example, I am always creating concepts and so on that
I use in emails (hey, I'm an SW developer)... I don't want to have to
keep track of all of these for any longer than a day, so I can just
use the three-tier date component for them, knowing that I'll get 353
of them a year, and will not have not reuse these at some point in the
future. If I want a structured namespace that I can use in a project
or something, I can use a "first of the month" or possibly "first of
the year" tag. Also, I guess it would be legal to use subdomains at
ones domain name? e.g. tag://sbp.infomesh.net;1/myterm
This is not something that could be particularly constrained by the
specification for tags itself, because it is fully up to the user how
they manage their own tag space, but I do think it would be sensible
to advise people on the best practices in managing their namespaces.
Certainly, date stamping, and using URIs to identify abstract resource
in general is an very difficult concept for some people to grasp,
especially those that only know about HTTP URLs, and look upon them as
simply locations for some data.
Another part of this problem is related the difference between 2x3 and
3x2; they are different strings, but they both have the same answer
mathematically. If I was referring to this sum as a mathematical
expression, would I use "/math/2x3" or "/math/3x2"? I conclude that it
doesn't matter as long as one refers to the same namespace
consistently, or states an equivalence in a particular implementation.
P.S. Sorry about the "rant" nature of this email (which reminds me a
little of [3]), but it is an important topic.
[1] http://www.w3.org/Provider/Style/URI states:-
1998/pics can be taken to mean for your server "what we meant in 1998
by pics", rather than "what in 1998 we did with what we now refer to
as pics."
[2] http://www.w3.org/2001/02/tann/
[3]
614.gif
Kindest Regards,
Sean B. Palmer
@prefix : http://webns.net/roughterms/ .
:Sean :hasHomepage http://purl.org/net/sbp/ .
I really think tag is a good idea (though I'd appreciate a more unique name,
as Sean does) and something that's very much needed.
But there have been two issues about the tag spec that have bothered me:
1) Why does tag insist on using such strange dates? It seems that the magic
date 2001-1-1 will cause confusion and misuse of tags. Certainly it confused
me for a bit. Wouldn't it be simpler just to specify full dates as in the
original proposal -- I think this would make more sense and be more
compatible.
You seem to indicate that the shortness rule is because you need to encode
these in barcodes. Perhaps I'm missing something, but it seems unlikely that
the few extra characters needed will make that much of a difference. And
even if they do, can't you put this in the barcode encoding/decoding
mechanism, and not bother the users with it?
2) Similarly, the rule that you can mint tags on dates before you've "owned"
the domain just seems silly. There is no technical reason for this, it just
seems like an exception so that people can use the magic date mentioned
above. People are highly unlikely to do diligent research on past domains,
and thus will probably accidentally run into conflicts. Since the scheme can
make a simple change to prevent this, I think it should.
Overall, I think the tag scheme should be simple. This will insure that it
will be understood and used properly.
tag:me@aaronsw.com;2001-04-29/example
is relatively easy to grok. We've got an email address, a date, and a path.
On the other hand:
tag:sandro@w3c.org/1:my-dog
is relatively confusing. At first glance, one can't really figure it out.
Hope this feedback helps,
[ Aaron Swartz | me@aaronsw.com | http://www.aaronsw.com ]
Hi Aaron,
I wanted to respond to your posting about bicycles but that'll have to wait
'cause I'm about to go to a conference for a few days. But I think I have
time for a reasonably sensible response to this one:
As has been said during this discussion, it'll be software that produces
tags by-and-large, so I'm not too worried about mistakes. I'm more
concerned about practices (see my response to your next point).
The date is almost always used opaquely: as I'm sure you appreciate, its
role is to make the tag unique and it's not a timestamp of any resource. So
I'm less concerned as to whether it can be construed very easily as opposed
to moderately easily, and more concerned about brevity.
Of course, brevity can be undone by long specific identifiers (not to
mention long domain names) but I'd like to try to make brevity possible.
The majority of tags will contain very short date strings like ";1" and
";2-3", thus making them that bit easier for humans to write and say to one
another. Aesthetically, I just like the way that that those short strings
are unobtrusive.
(I'm settling down to the idea of seeing a ';' in there but 'semi-colon'
isn't very nice to say as compared to 'dot', 'dash' etc. 'Comma' would be
phonetically nicer.)
I used the term 'tag' because literal tagging of physical entities is my
original motivation. Linear barcode symbologies (like some other id
technologies) aren't very forgiving when it comes to length. Yes, I could
have special conventions for writing tags into barcode form, which would be
converted into canonical tag form. But then we have things floating around
that sort of are tags and sort of aren't. We went through a process of
allowing multiple forms for tags but Sandro persuaded me not to and now I'm
a true convert to that idea.
I think you (and several others) are right that our motivations are less
than convincing. In our defence, it's not that we specifically want to make
it possible for just about everyone to use ";1" but that we think people
would be sorely tempted to do that and we wanted to see if there was a
valid way for that to be done.
I'm tempted to remove the use of unassigned authority names from the
proposal. I also think we should consider removing the parts about putting
hints in the specific identifiers, and how those who mint tags can declare
their true identities (by using an appropriate authority name). It seems to
have created more trouble than it was worth to make that explicit.
Agreed.
Yes but I think the '/' in the tag authority is (was) the really confusing bit.
Thanks for the feedback.
Tim.
Tim Kindberg
internet &amp; mobile systems lab hewlett-packard laboratories
1501 page mill road, ms 1u-17
palo alto
ca 94304-1126
usa
www.champignon.net/TimKindberg/
timothy@hpl.hp.com
voice +1 650 857 5609
