hi all,
As outlined at the face to face meet, I've been working on methods of
getting coordinate information about the locations of Semantic web
researchers and groups. I wrote to the www-rdf-interest list asking for
data:
so we'll have to see how that pans out. Please do add yourselves if
you've not already there (I just did a few as examples).
There are some SVG demos, developed from ones by Jim Ley, displaying the
information we have already, which I constructed as examples:
So, now we have to decide on the map which we will use to overlay the
dots on. We want something that will highlight Europe, especially since
on a world map, Europe is too small to really show up on provide the
level of detail we require. At ILRT, Caroline Meek, Dan and I have had
discussions with a designer, and he has pointed us at some examples, and
we've narrowed it down to two that we rather like:
which has the advantage of showing Europe as part of the world (we could
get rid of the arm of the globe that is showing, and alter the colours);
and
which would be technically simpler to do, but shows Europe in isolation
(I do like the colour scheme though).
Do people have a preference for one style over the other?
Could you let us know today if possible? We need to specify the map as
soon as possible in order to get postcards printed for www2003.
thanks,
Libby
p.s. Here's a nice similar idea:
From: Libby Miller [mailto:Libby.Miller@bristol.ac.uk]
Can't say I'm particularly grabbed by either of them, but if you have to
pick one I'd go for the map, not the globe. Is there any reason it has to
be geographically accurate? Perhaps a schematic, analogous to the London
Underground map of London, would allow you to convey the sense of spatial
distribution without getting hung up on the scale problem. Of course, you
may not consider that a helpful suggestion given the short timescale :-)
Cheers,
Ian
* Dickinson, Ian J Ian.Dickinson@hp.com [2003-04-25 12:12+0100]
One advantage of being geographically accurate is it simplifies our lives when we
try to plot SW researchers, groups, events etc on the map...
I prefer the map to the globe, fwiw.
Dan
yeah, sorry it's such a rush. It took a long time to write the
document explaining how to write the RDF. At this stage we really need
examples to show the designer though - I'll pass your comments along to
him, see if he has anything like that.
What don't you like about them in particular?
thanks for the feedback
Libby
Hi Libby,
The globe is too visually busy for a background (imho), and if you decrease
the opacity I think you'll lose too much of the important bits (like where
the UK is :-). The map would be OK as a backdrop for the FOAF map if it
was semi-opaque, but (a) it misses out the rest of the world, as you said
yourself, and (b) there's a big blue empty space on the left :-). The
atlantic is just too big** if you keep it to scale, hence my suggestion to
use more of a schematic approach. I guess you need the cartographical
equivalent of an ellipsis, whatever that might be!
Cheers,
Ian
** qv "[the judge] ruled that the guilty party was 'life itself' for failing
to be either beautiful or true" [hhgtg]
thanks Ian. I broadly agree with you. For (b) though, that might work in
our favour, as we can put a logo and/or a slogan there.
Libby
