I like and use Amaya especially because of its different views.
I know no other www-browser/editor giving so much comfort.
This is valuable because:
+ I can write better source (and control it)
+ I have a better overview over the structure of my www-page
+ Amaya gives me the look and feel of real Hypertext.
I have a very simple ht-system (130kB!!) from Bratislava-University
(INTERES), which gives me the same feeling, but can not use universal
tag-languages like Amaya.
But I use Amaya very often locally like an organizer with linked
articles.
? I can find easier orphan-annotations.
But annoations are not comfortable, when writing articles, which change
very often.
Annotations are not new. I found them first in Hyperties 3 (Cognetics),
which died because of www.
In HTIES 3 it was possible to annotate every article (but not selected
parts of it). Then an editor-widow, similar to Annotea (with all the
necessary metas) opened and could be edited.
All annotations were in one single file.
Orphan-annotations were possible only, if I deleted an article
completely.
I think this simpler concept would suffice for Annotea too.
The nessessary functions (after adding XHTML and XML) are all there.
The inconveniences and small errors mentioned in this mailing list do not
disturb very much.
I congratulate the working team for their product and for responding so
quickly to messages. This is not common for very expensive commercial
products.
Kind regards
Veith Risak
University of Salzburg
risak@cosy.sbg.ac.at
veith.risak@telering.at
[snip]
[snip]
Veith,
Thanks for your comments.
With respect to annotations, did hyperties allow to annotate paragraphs
in a document or just the whole document? You can do both with the Amaya
implementation.
However, the annotation of live documents requires special considerations in
function of the granularity of what you're annotating. Have you read the
Amaya annotations help document? I described some cases there.
The only solutions today for annotation live documents is to either
annotate the whole document (but you loose the fine granularity of
annotations), or, if you're the author of the document, add ID
attributes to elements (e.g., all the P elements) and attach annotations
to those attributes (the granularity here is that of the element).
With Amaya, you can add ID attributes using the Special / Add Remove IDs
function.
If you have some other ideas on how to make more robust annotations,
such as other ways of using XPointer, feel free to join the
www-annotation@w3.org mailing list.
-jose
Yeah, me too. I even like the source view, although I didn't think it was a
good idea at the time...
There is an option to annotate a document in the annotations menu, which is
the functionality you are asking for. But it would be interesting to have
some more control in the user interface over how context URIs were
constructed - should it be an Xpointer, or an IDREF, or someting else? I
suspect that in the first two cases there should be a simple choice, perhaps
made automatically so if the thing being annotated is a target it gets a URI
like http://example.com/#foo and otherwise it gets an Xpointer (idrefs are
likely to change less often than xpointers, I suspect). But it would be good
to have an opportunity to edit the annotation target it is keeping - for
example to allow the use of RDF "fuzzy pointers" or other mechanisms that are
more robust over changes.
Cheers
Chaals
Post: 21 Mitchell street, FOOTSCRAY Vic 3011, Australia or
W3C, 2004 Route des Lucioles, 06902 Sophia Antipolis Cedex, France
