Techniques for Checkpoint 2.7 When no text equivalent has been specified,
indicate what type of object is present. [Priority 2]
2.7.1 If captioning information is not available and captioning is turned on,
render ?no captioning information available? in the captioning display window
2.7.2 If no ALT text or TITLE text has been provided by the author render the
word ?image? with the file name
2.7.3 If no TITLE text is available for a FRAMESET element, render FRAME x of y
frames or use the TITLE information from the URL referenced by the FRAMESET
element
Jon Gunderson, Ph.D., ATP
Coordinator of Assistive Communication and Information Technology
Chair, W3C WAI User Agent Working Group
Division of Rehabilitation - Education Services
College of Applied Life Studies
University of Illinois at Urbana/Champaign
1207 S. Oak Street, Champaign, IL 61820
Voice: (217) 244-5870
E-mail: jongund@uiuc.edu
WWW: http://www.staff.uiuc.edu/~jongund
WWW: http://www.w3.org/wai/ua
aloha, jon!
as per your proposed techniques for Checkpoint 2.7, contained in a post
archived at:
i would recommend splitting your proposed technique 2.7.3
quote
2.7.3. If no TITLE text is available for a FRAMESET element, render FRAME x
of y frames or use the TITLE information from the URL referenced by the
FRAMESET element
unquote
into several Techniques, to wit:
2.7.3.A. If no TITLE text is available for a FRAMESET element, use the
information contained in the TITLE element of the document or resource
referenced by the FRAMESET element to provide a TITLE for that FRAMESET
element. If the resource referenced via a FRAMESET element does not
contain a TITLE, or if the TITLE element is empty, render "FRAME X of Y",
where "Y" indicates the total number of frames.
2.7.3.B. If the LONGDESC attribute, but not the TITLE attribute, has been
defined for a FRAMESET element, use the information contained in the TITLE
element of the document or resource referenced by the LONGDESC to provide a
TITLE for the FRAME. If the resource referenced via the LONGDESC attribute
does not contain a TITLE, or if the TITLE element is empty, render "FRAME X
of Y", where "Y" indicates the total number of frames.
2.7.3.C. If neither the TITLE nor the LONGDESC attributes have been defined
for a FRAMESET element, use the information contained in the TITLE element
of the document or resource referenced by each FRAMESET element to provide
a TITLE for each FRAME. If the referenced resource does not contain a
TITLE, or if the TITLE element is empty, render "FRAME X of Y", where "Y"
indicates the total number of frames.
2.7.3.D. If a NAME, but no TITLE or LONGDESC, has been defined for a
FRAMESET element, use the information contained in the TITLE element of the
document or resource referenced by each FRAMESET element to provide a TITLE
for each FRAME. If any of the referenced resources do not contain a TITLE,
or if the TITLE element is empty, render the content of the NAME attribute,
along with orientation information that conveys the number of frames
contained in each FRAMESET and the number of the FRAME with focus. For
example, in a FRAMESET element for which the NAME attribute has been
defined as "nav", render:
Frame name "nav" - Frame X of Y
where Y represents the total number of frames. NOTE: The NAME attribute
should only be used if (a) the FRAMESET element lacks a TITLE or LONGDESC;
(b) the referenced resource either lacks a TITLE element or if the TITLE
element contained in the referenced resource is empty; AND (c) if the user
has configured the user agent to use the NAME attribute as alternative
content for FRAMESET elements. If the user has configured the user agent
to ignore the NAME attribute, then the following technique should be
implemented.
2.7.3.E. If no TITLE, LONGDESC, or NAME is defined for a FRAMESET element,
render "FRAME X of Y", where "Y" indicates the total number of frames
--- end proposed techniques, begin notes and comments
NOTE 1: i have included a technique to deal with the misuse of the NAME
attribute (at least in HTML4) because (at least currently) most authors of
framed sites use the NAME attribute, rather than the TITLE attribute when
defining frames. perhaps a reference to the relevant Checkpoints and
Techniques that cover this issue in WCAG would also be appropriate if this
technique is included in the UAGL Techniques document.
NOTE 2: i have reordered the proposed techniques, so as to illustrate
best-to-worst case scenarios, as well as to emphasize the correct encoding
of FRAMESETs
NOTE 3: well, actually more a question for Jon than a note... Jon, did you
intend the term "FRAMESET element" to cover not only the FRAMESET element
itself, but also all of the individual FRAME elements contained in the
FRAMESET? that is my reading of your proposed techniques, and if, indeed,
my interpretation of the phrase "FRAMESET element" is correct, we might
want to hyperlink that phrase to a definition, in which it is explicitly
stated that by the use of the term "FRAMESET element" the document refers
to all of the elements defined by the HTML4 frameset.dtd
if i am incorrect, however, i will have to reword my proposed techniques to
make it explicit that what is meant is individual elements defined by the
HTML4 frameset DTD
NOTE 4: in reference to FRAMES, the WCAG Techniques document states:
quote
4.10.4 Always make the source of a frame an HTML document
Checkpoints in this section: 6.2.
Content developers must provide text equivalents of frames so that their
contents and the relationships between frames make sense. Note that as the
contents of a frame change, so must change any description. This is not
possible if an IMG is inserted directly into a frame. Thus, content
developers should always make the source ("src") of a frame an HTML file.
Images may be inserted into the HTML file and their text alternatives will
evolve correctly.
is this something that needs to be referenced in the UAGL Techniques
document, or should it be addressed in the ATAG Techniques document?
i raise the issue because i used the phrase "document or resource" in
several of my proposed techniques, since an author may use a FRAMESET
element (i.e. a FRAME element) to point to a SMIL document or an XML
document, and not only an HTML document... of course, anyone who
references a naked image using a FRAME element should be keelhauled, but
that's another topic altogether!
gregory
He that lives on Hope, dies farting
-- Benjamin Franklin, Poor Richard's Almanack, 1763
Gregory J. Rosmaita unagi69@concentric.net
WebMaster and Minister of Propaganda, VICUG NYC
Gregory,
I suggest something a little simpler:
2.7.3 The following sources can be used to render information to identify a
frame in a frame set to the user. The sources are listed in order of
preference:
1. contents of the TITLE attribute of the FRAME element
2. contents of the NAME attrribute of the FRAME element
3. The contents of the TITLE element in the HEAD block of the referenced
SRC attribute of the FRAME element
4. The contents of the TITLE element in the HEAD block of the referenced
LONGDESC attribute of the FRAME element
5. Use content "frame X of N frames"
And your right, men't to use FRAME not FRAME set in my original proposal.
Jon
Jon Gunderson, Ph.D., ATP
Coordinator of Assistive Communication and Information Technology
Chair, W3C WAI User Agent Working Group
Division of Rehabilitation - Education Services
College of Applied Life Studies
University of Illinois at Urbana/Champaign
1207 S. Oak Street, Champaign, IL 61820
Voice: (217) 244-5870
E-mail: jongund@uiuc.edu
WWW: http://www.staff.uiuc.edu/~jongund
WWW: http://www.w3.org/wai/ua
aloha, jon!
i have no problem with using a more simplified version of what i posted to the
list earlier today... optimally, i'd like an amalgam of my and your
suggestions to be inserted, as i am concerned with the dangers of
over-tersifying techniques, but, i suppose, that at this point, it's up to you
and ian... whatever the working group agrees conveys the necessary info in the
most efficacious manner is fine with me...
if you and ian would like, i can spin out my more verbose techniques into some
narrative for the Accessibility Topics section of the Techniques document..
gregory.
BORE, n. A person who talks when you wish him to listen.
-- Ambrose Bierce, _The Devil's Dictionary_
Gregory J. Rosmaita unagi69@concentric.net
Camera Obscura http://www.hicom.net/~oedipus/index.html
VICUG NYC http://www.hicom.net/~oedipus/vicug/
Read 'Em &amp; Speak http://www.hicom.net/~oedipus/books/
Yes to ATAG.
More than requiring a repair strategy, we should fix the spec
that allows this.
- Ian
Ian Jacobs (jacobs@w3.org) http://www.w3.org/People/Jacobs
Cell: +1 917 450-8783
[wit snipped]
What's wrong with "name"? They should be using "title", but if they
don't, what's wrong with "name"?
- Ian
Ian Jacobs (jacobs@w3.org) http://www.w3.org/People/Jacobs
Cell: +1 917 450-8783
Proposed:
To name frames in HTML, use:
1. The "title" attribute on FRAME, or if not present,
2. The "name" attribute on FRAME, or if not present,
3. Title information of the referenced frame source
(e.g., the TITLE element of the source HTML document), or
4. Title information of the referenced long description
(e.g., what "longdesc" refers to in HTML), or
5. Frame context
(e.g., "Frame 2.1.3" to indicate the path to this frame in
nested framesets).
- Ian
Sure, if you'd like.
- Ian
Which is one of the techniques for implementing the checkpoint that gets
picked up in the various relative priority checkpoints.
Charles
Yes to ATAG.
More than requiring a repair strategy, we should fix the spec
that allows this.
- Ian
Ian Jacobs (jacobs@w3.org) http://www.w3.org/People/Jacobs
Cell: +1 917 450-8783
--Charles McCathieNevile mailto:charles@w3.org
W3C Web Accessibility Initiative http://www.w3.org/WAI
MIT/LCS - 545 Technology sq., Cambridge MA, 02139, USA
