It is my sense from list postings that a TRACE or OPTIONS request which
referenced a specific resource which a server handed to an external
application such as a CGI program should be handed to that program
for handling.
That is:
OPTIONS /cgi-bin/somescript HTTP/1.1
or
TRACE /cgi-bin/somescript HTTP/1.1
should be handled by the application which would respond to a GET or HEAD
of the same resource.
Is that a fair summary of the WG's expectations in this case? A long scan
of my memory and a check of the archives and latest draft didn't pop up
anything. But I was sure I'd seen something on the list in the last few
weeks to this effect.
Dave Morris
I would agree for OPTIONS, since it is probably the capabilities of the
CGI or other sub-server that the requestor is interested in (although my
experience has usually been that CGIs often respond as though the method
were GET or POST because the authors don't check).
I can't think of any reason why TRACE would require the participation of
the resource - it's purpose is just to reflect the headers as received,
and the server itself can do that just fine.
I would agree for OPTIONS, since it is probably the capabilities of
the CGI or other sub-server that the requestor is interested in
(although my experience has usually been that CGIs often respond as
though the method were GET or POST because the authors don't
check).
I can't think of any reason why TRACE would require the
participation of the resource - it's purpose is just to reflect the
headers as received, and the server itself can do that just fine.
Note that the spec, in section 9.1.2 (Idempotent Methods) says
Also, the methods OPTIONS and TRACE should
have no side effects, and so are inherently idempotent.
(I'm not sure if that "should" should be a "SHOULD" or a "MUST",
or if it just means "normally.")
Later, in 9.2 (OPTIONS) the spec says:
This method allows the client to determine the
options and/or requirements associated with a resource, or the
capabilities of a server, without implying a resource action or
initiating a resource retrieval.
And in section 9.8 (TRACE) the spec says:
The TRACE method is used to invoke a remote, application-layer
loop-back of the request message.
The implication seems to me that the spec doesn't care if the
CGI (or other sub-server) is invoked for TRACE or OPTIONS ...
but you can't let this invocation cause any side-effects.
I'm not sure whether the CGI specification is sufficient
to guarantee that if the method is OPTIONS or TRACE, then
the CGI script will never cause side-effects. So it would
seem to me that a cautious implementation of TRACE, at least,
wouldn't risk invoking the CGI script.
E.g., if the client sends
TRACE /cgi-bin/action=buy&amp;stock=sunw&amp;quantity=100000 HTTP/1.1
Host: stockbroker.com
I think it would be a mistake to excecute the CGI script.
It's trickier with OPTIONS, since the capabilities of the CGI script
might be the target of the OPTIONS request. I suspect this means
that we're not done figuring out how OPTIONS is supposed to work ....
-Jeff
** Reply to note from Jeffrey Mogul mogul@pa.dec.com Thu, 12 Mar 98 12:04:04 PST
Currently we pass neither OPTIONS nor TRACE to the CGI, though we do
allow configuration of plug-ins to override any method.
I think the compelling argument here is that you cannont guarantee that
the CGI will not cause side-effects.
Richard L. Gray
will code for chocolate
I think a compelling case can be made for passing OPTIONS to CGI
programs. I always try to check the method in my CGI programs, but I
don't doubt that there are a lot of them out there that don't. Still, my
hard-nosed approach is that CGI programs are really sub-servers and have
just as much of an obligation to comply with the protocol as any
servrer. (Okay, okay, maybe "obligation" isn't the right word.)
This obviously isn't an IETF issue, but it seems to me that a reasonable
strategy would be for servers to only pass GET and POST requests to a
CGI program unless some affirmative action is taken (e.g., via
.htaccess) to indicate that they can properly handle other requests.
Gregory Woodhouse gregory.woodhouse@med.va.gov
San Francisco CIO Field Office - Infrastructure
Standards are wonderful; everyone should have one of their own.
From: Jeffrey Mogul[SMTP:mogul@pa.dec.com]
Sent: Thursday, March 12, 1998 12:04 PM
Subject: Re: OPTIONS and TRACE vis a vis CGI applications
