Damn, I just had an idea :)
The logvalidator is (unfortunately, libwww is a pain sometimes...) not
so easy to install, and since I believe it's a cool service, I'd be
tempted to create an online version : people would upload a log file
(could be big, though...), fill in a few necessary fields, and voila!
(or maybe I should package libwww and all necessary libs with the
logvalidator library...)
Besides, that'd be a replacement for a recursive validator, which we're
not likely to provide soon.
Thoughts? Worth working on?
Olivier
Hmm, what do you mean? "perl -MCPAN -e shell", "install LWP" or use ppm
with ActivePerl or use the pre-packaged version from an OS vendor?
Sounds kind of neat, but I wouldn't feel comfortable uploading my
server's logs to a public service. If I'd host such a service myself, I
think it could be useful.
Brr...
Why not, especially because of the "recursive validator" idea.
\/ille Skytt?
ville.skytta at iki.fi
Argh! I /knew/ there was something I'd forgotten to reply to. :-(
I think Olivier means that LogValidator isn't too easy to install; it has
some dependancies and it's partially implemented as a module and not a
"script". LWP is merely "moderately hard" to install. :-)
I agree. This is more a tool for use behind a firewall and on the internet
then on the Internet or provided by the W3C. Even though I'm sure there
would be interest for it, it encourages unsafe practices and careless
treatement of sensitive data.
Always worth working on if you can spare the time; especially if a localy
installable version could be produced. But for a recursive Validator, I
think the time would be better spent on actually producing a recursive
Validator. :-)
And it isn't necessarily that far off. Depending on when we decide to
feature freeze 0.7.0 it could go in as early as that or in the next version
after 0.7.0 (1.0?). Of course, it may also not make it in this side of the
heat death of the universe... :-)
"You gonna take advice from somebody who slapped DEE BARNES?!" -- eminem
Yep, but libwww was explicitly mentioned to be "a pain sometimes"...
Anyway, IMO it's the configuration of the LogValidator that is a bit
painful; installation is just the usual "perl Makefile.PL &amp;&amp; make
install".
Perhaps the LogValidator (and Validator, checklink etc) could be
distributed via CPAN so eg. CPAN.pm and friends could take care of the
dependencies?
\/ille Skytt?
ville.skytta at iki.fi
For Validator, I plan to look into that when I modularize it.
BTW, Ville, I plan to make an update of :8001 ASAP. Is that ok with the
current state of checklink?
"Frailty, thy name is woman!" - Hamlet, Prince of Denmark.
See Project Gutenberg URL:http://promo.net/pg/ for more.
Yes. I have some local changes that I won't apply just yet (trying to
get Referer sent properly, and respecting robots.txt). But I'm starting
to feel that checklink needs refactoring and modularization as well, the
code is unnecessarily hairy at the moment. When the validator
modularization work begins, let's do it for checklink at the same time
(as well as some integration, at least in the UI).
\/ille Skytt?
ville.skytta at iki.fi
Interesting. Being a "download, make, make install" person, I confess
my ignorance about CPAN semi-automated mechanisms. Really interesting,
I should look at this and update the doc.
I also plan to make it CPAN package (I believe it's CPAN compliant, or
almost, already), especially if it helps installation.
Yes, I understand this. I've been thinking about it, and even though
there would be a few "tricks" to make it look safe (upload via https,
clear statement of our policy, etc), it doesn't look *quite* right.
I meant "make available in the same repository", not in the same
package :)
But that may be pointless anyway.
Given the answers (thanks!), I probably should rather work on the
install documentation and help on a recursive validator.
Thanks.
Olivier Thereaux - W3C - QA : http://www.w3.org/QA/
I believe it is, IIRC I've sent some patches to address this in the past
myself :) But the tough part is the configuration file, I don't know
how that should be treated in a CPAN package.
Anyway, the really nice thing about all the above automated mechanisms
is the ability to track dependencies and install them on demand.
\/ille Skytt?
ville.skytta at iki.fi
