In the description of the idref function, the rec says:
"Each string in $srcval is parsed as if it were of lexically of type
xs:ID, that is, $srcval is treated as a space-separated sequence of
tokens, each acting as an ID. "
Shouldn't that say something like "...lexically of a type that is a list
of xs:ID"? Something that is lexically of type xs:ID would never be a
space-separated list.
Thanks,
Priscilla
The argument to fn:idref is a sequence of string (not a list of
strings). Each string in the sequence is parsed as if it was lexically
of type xs:ID.
The second sentence is confusing and we may as well remove it.
All the best, Ashok
list
What if the source document is well formed only?
Is the implication that any attribute of name idref is of type IDREF
in the associated Schema?
If so, have you informed the XML WG of this change in semantics?
regards DaveP
*** snip here ***
NOTICE: The information contained in this email and any attachments is
confidential and may be legally privileged. If you are not the
intended recipient you are hereby notified that you must not use,
disclose, distribute, copy, print or rely on this email's content. If
you are not the intended recipient, please notify the sender
immediately and then delete the email and any attachments from your
system.
RNIB has made strenuous efforts to ensure that emails and any
attachments generated by its staff are free from viruses. However, it
cannot accept any responsibility for any viruses which are
transmitted. We therefore recommend you scan all attachments.
Please note that the statements and views expressed in this email
and any attachments are those of the author and do not necessarily
represent those of RNIB.
RNIB Registered Charity Number: 226227
Website: http://www.rnib.org.uk
I do not think so. If you have no type annotation, you will get nothing.
Best regards
Michael
From: David.Pawson@rnib.org.uk [mailto:David.Pawson@rnib.org.uk]
Sent: Monday, May 12, 2003 0:53 AM
Subject: RE: F&amp;O idref function
