We have in Apps Area a number of groups which want to have working
groups. The line is getting longer and longer, and that is NOT FUN.
Reason for not "just" creating new wg's is that we have limited
resources in various places, and resources are held up by old wg's
which move forward very slowly -- if moving at all, and not always in
the correct direction maybe?
I will as Area Director start forcing wg's to decide to be closed,
and documents moved to personal contributions.
Note that this doesn't prohibit the documents to be published as an
RFC in the future, but as individual contributions.
If people have any problem with this, or other ideas on how to free
resources, let me and Ned know.
paf
Patrik F?ltstr?m paf@cisco.com Internet Engineering Task Force
Area Director, Applications Area http://www.ietf.org
PGP: 2DFC AAF6 16F0 F276 7843 2DC1 BC79 51D9 7D25 B8DC
Patrik,
Maybe there are cases where the topic is important and extra
effort would appear if people (other than the chairs and current
participants) knew the WG was under threat.
I understand that you may hesitate to name-and-shame in public,
but a list of the WGs you consider to be stuck would be interesting.
Brian
I don't want to do this now, but first talk with Ned (which is
happily unaware of me wanting to do this _NOW_), so we have a
coherent picture of the state we belive the wg's are in.
My mail might have been possible to read in a more negative way than
what was intended. The main point was that people interested in a
topic should NOT be afraid of having a wg closed, because the work
can continue anyway -- especially if the number of people is small.
The mailing list can continue to exist, the RFC's can still be
produced etc.
The point was that I feel that we should try to use the IETF
resources for the discussions which do need the really wide review
the IETF can provide in a wg, and not only through a last call.
And, I do have the names of wg's which WANT to close but are not able
to do that because I personally have their last documents on my
plate. I am cleaning up that in parallell.
Ned is working with a new apps-area web-page, and more status reports
will be given, and my goal is that WE in the apps area should have a
common view on:
- What we are working on in general
- What we need to concentrate on
- What is out of scope
I hope we together can communicate more in all directions on status
etc, and that hopefully will give people the extra energy which is
needed to push I-D's over the last doorstep to become RFC's
(including myself, I am not blaming anyone!!)
That said, I expect that Ned and I can start having a list of wg's
and documents shortly -- but the expectation is NOT that the
information there should be a surprise for anyone, and especially not
the wg (chair).
I have already had email exchange with one chair in one wg today, and
just exchanging those two messages made me understand more what is
actually going on.
So easy, and I probably do not do it often enough.
paf
Patrik F?ltstr?m paf@cisco.com Internet Engineering Task Force
Area Director, Applications Area http://www.ietf.org
PGP: 2DFC AAF6 16F0 F276 7843 2DC1 BC79 51D9 7D25 B8DC
patrik - thanks for the thoughtful note.
may i ask that you and ned send email to each of the WGs in question,
comparing their progress to their charter, and giving them a short amount of
time to show progress or be nuke'd.
a charter represents a contract between the ADs and a WG. the reasons that
charters have milestones with dates is so that everyone can understand the
timeliness and metabolism of the project and principals.
in research, you can't schedule innovation; but, the ietf isn't a research
organization, it's an engineering organization. in engineering, scheduling
is one of the most important things to get right.
when WGs go stale but don't die, they prevent other WGs from being formed.
this is plainly unfair...
/mtr
We are NOT after killing things because it is fun.
We want progress. If either this mail from me, or a future ping from
me and Ned make the wg start work again, fine.
Exactly!
Exactly my point in my initial message. wg's _DO_ use resources just
by existing.
paf
Patrik F?ltstr?m paf@cisco.com Internet Engineering Task Force
Area Director, Applications Area http://www.ietf.org
PGP: 2DFC AAF6 16F0 F276 7843 2DC1 BC79 51D9 7D25 B8DC
of
and i hope you didn't think i was implying otherwise...
that
the
formed.
we are certainly in agreement.
/mtr
Definitly not.
I just thought it was extemely important to make the point extremely explicit!
paf
explicit!
historically, when this approach is taken (a warning shot to the wg), the
success ratio is 50%. (for the amusement of this list, i'll let each
subscriber figure out what is meant by "success").
/mtr
