When a recipient receives an XML document containing a signature -
perhaps
containing an envloped signature, how does the recipient know there
is an XML Signature in the content. Either the recipient can
a. search for a ds:Signature element in the XML document
b. or know that there is a XML Signature through some other
mechanism.
Which of the above two is the correct or prevalent model ?
Thanks.
Sekhar
Hi,
There is no correct model.
If you are of the extreme protocol point of view, b is always right
and your protocol specification should tell you where signature(s)
should be. If you are of the extreme document persuation, you
obviously have to search for Signature elements. For what I mean by
protocol/document, see
ftp://ftp.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-eastlake-proto-doc-pov-04.txt .
As for which is more prevalent, I don't know right now. It is possible
that some document uses may be very "important". But if XMLDSIG is
used in instant messaging or protocols like that, I would guess that
the number of b cases would eventually be orders of magnitude larger
than the number of "a" cases.
Thanks,
Donald
From: Sekhar Vajjhala - Sun Microsystems sekhar.vajjhala@sun.com
Message-ID: 3BE1D8CB.96BF9945@sun.com
Date: Thu, 01 Nov 2001 18:20:43 -0500
Just discovered this reply never made it from my "Draft" folder to my "Sent"
folder. Oh well, better late than never...
The "short" (and incomplete) answer is that, yes, an application can "discover"
a signature using DOM, XPath, XSLT, regular expressions, or whatever.
HOWEVER, in my view, the "correct" answer is that a practical, secure system
will use schemas or some other higher-level mechanism to dictate whether
or not a signature must, or may, be at a certain node in the document.
Further, such a system will dictate certain parameters of the Signature
such as the algorithms used, and, of course, what that signature must cover.
These parameters may be dictated through schemas and enforced through schema
validation or through some other way of verifying the integrity of the structure.
It isn't enough to simply find a signature willy-nilly and indicate only
whether it is valid or not.
Does this help? If I read too much into the question or misinterpreted
it, let me know.
Regards, Ed
Ed Simon
XMLsec Inc.
Interested in XML Security Training and Consulting services? Visit "www.xmlsec.com".
