looks really bizarre in Amaya with 7.2
does your table calculation fix work ok on this one...
looks ok on gecko/msie/opera and ancient nn4 //
John Russell, VE3LL@RAC.CA
check HTML at http://www.htmlhelp.com/tools/validator/
check CSS at http://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/
check JavaScript at http://www.crockford.com/javascript/jslint.html
Hi,
Thanks to all the excellent human beings working on Amaya!
Can someone explain to me what amaya is and is not.
I am looking for a good stylesheets editor
and as a browser, amaya does not accurately display
w3c pages like
I would like my pages to look like the old page that seems
to have been there until yesterday.
Can amaya create these pages which it cannot display or
am I missing something? I have read the amaya manual
and am half way through the Hakon Wium Lie/Bert Bos book
but am unclear about amaya. Is there a good amaya user webpage?
Which stylesheet editor does the w3c use?
Don
I answered a similar question last week. Please refer to
This page uses a lot of advanced features of CSS. Many of these
features are not yet implemented in Amaya, such as absolute
positionning, float and list-style.
Amaya did a better job with the default style sheets that were
used until yesterday (Blue shadows). But I guess this is the
purpose of the style sheets used on the Style area of the W3C server:
to demonstrate what CSS can do, and to stimulate browser developpers.
Some recent progress has been made in Amaya to render these pages
better. The Gold style used by default now will set a new target for
future releases of Amaya.
You can certainly use Amaya to create such HTML pages.
If you look at these pages without any style sheet (or with the
Handheld style), or if you just check the source code, you will
see that they are pretty simple. The secret is in the many class
attributes they use to refer to style properties defined in style
sheets. You can perfectly use Amaya to create XHTML pages, to link
the style sheets you like to these pages (command Style/Link...),
and to put the right class (command Style/Apply class...) on the
XHTML elements.
You have some info in the on-line Help pages. There is a FAQ:
You can also check:
I guess most people at W3C just use a plain text editor and create
their style sheets by hand. But you can also check:
Vincent.
Vincent Quint INRIA Rh?ne-Alpes
INRIA ZIRST
e-mail: Vincent.Quint@inria.fr 655 avenue de l'Europe
France
Well, I am just one person at W3C, and I don't make a lot of web pages (fewer
than I used to). I use Amaya for almost all my stylesheet editing, because
I like to do it by example. This means that I have to live without
positioning for the moment, or to do it manually, and that I have to copy my
stylesheet to an external one.
just one person's experience.
cheers
Chaals
Post: 21 Mitchell street, FOOTSCRAY Vic 3011, Australia or
W3C, 2004 Route des Lucioles, 06902 Sophia Antipolis Cedex, France
