This claims to be highly accessible, and I found it pretty easy to use.
Anyone care to comment (here, or privately. I am not trying to start a flame
war, just work out some ideas that I haven't managed to get into words yet).
Charles McCN
W3C Web Accessibility Initiative http://www.w3.org/WAI
Location: I-cubed, 110 Victoria Street, Carlton VIC 3053
Postal: GPO Box 2476V, Melbourne 3001, Australia
Sorry folks - I got the address (badly) wrong. Thanks for picking it up
Emmanuelle.
Hi Charles,
The search engine address in TIFLONET is:
The original is in: "http://www.metabusca.com /"
[snip]
cheers,
Emmanuelle
I got a not found server.
Hands-On Technolog(eye)s
ftp://ftp.clark.net/pub/poehlman
voice 301-949-7599
end sig.
Yes,
I had the address wrong. I have since posted the corect address (Thanks to
Emmanuelle Gutierrez y Restrepo...)
with the address I meant to give being
Charles
I got a not found server.
Hands-On Technolog(eye)s
ftp://ftp.clark.net/pub/poehlman
voice 301-949-7599
end sig.
W3C Web Accessibility Initiative http://www.w3.org/WAI
Location: I-cubed, 110 Victoria Street, Carlton VIC 3053
Postal: GPO Box 2476V, Melbourne 3001, Australia
I needed to use the slider to find the text entry box.
Otherwise I liked the response layout
jay@peepo.com
Jonathan Chetwynd
Special needs teacher / web accessibility consultant
education and outreach working group member, web accessibility initiative,
W3C
use.
flame
yet).
134 136
136
Charles,
From a quick look, the site layout is very simple and easy to navigate. I
had no problem finding the edit box to type in my search request, however,
the foreign language in which the site is written in did pose a bit of a
problem. Very unique and interesting to listen to a foreign language with
a decpc voice synthesizer going at about 400 words per minute. Smile.
jeffrey pledger
Hello,
I have been looking through the list archives trying to find the reference of an article mentioned in aprevious message about tips for implementing accesibility into an existing website in a rational way. I couldn't find it.
I liked it because it said things like "start by the homepage" and other logical things.
Could someone send me, off the list, the URL if you know it?
Thanks in advance, Rafael Romero.
Could someone send it on the list as others maybe interested as well.
Sincerely,
Mike Burks
Behalf Of Rafael Romero
Hello,
I have been looking through the list archives trying to find the reference
of an article mentioned in aprevious message about tips for implementing
accesibility into an existing website in a rational way. I couldn't find it.
I liked it because it said things like "start by the homepage" and other
logical things.
Could someone send me, off the list, the URL if you know it?
Thanks in advance, Rafael Romero.
You may be wanting Jakob Nielsen's "Disabled Accessibility: The
Pragmatic Approach" from his 13 June 1999 Alertbox column:
Kynn Bartlett mailto:kynn@hwg.org
President, HTML Writers Guild http://www.hwg.org/
AWARE Center Director http://aware.hwg.org/
