One reason you need a mapping between Contentxt-Types and
URIs is that one must be able to introduce new non-standard
context types with all the benefit of URI machinery
- Anyone can make a new one
- Choice of schemes with different properties of identity,
dereference, etc
- Ability to talk about them for example wiht RDF and all
other languages which use URIs.
I agree, but this seems very different from the mapping proposed by RFC
3023 [1] which defines a mapping from a (namespace) URI into a content
type based on an IANA registration and a new "+xml" syntax convention
for XML based content type names.
RFC 3023 suggests content types for several W3C defined languages
including SVG, RDF, MathML, and XSLT all of which are identified by
namespace URIs. This seems to go in the direct opposite direction by
forcing central registration of names that were designed not to be. Is
this the direction we want to go?
Henrik Frystyk Nielsen
[1] http://rfc.net/rfc3023.html
[ distribution trimmed ]
One reason you need a mapping between Contentxt-Types and URIs is
that one must be able to introduce new non-standard context types
with all the benefit of URI machinery
- Anyone can make a new one
- Choice of schemes with different properties of identity,
dereference, etc
- Ability to talk about them for example wiht RDF and all other
languages which use URIs.
Where does 3023 propose such a mapping?
Cheers,
Mark Nottingham, Research Scientist
Akamai Technologies (San Mateo, CA USA)
Through the central registration process. This is for example how the
"http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" namespace identifier identifying the SVG
language is proposed to be mapped into "image/svg+xml". This is of
course not an automatic mapping but a mapping nonetheless.
Henrik
It's not a direct mapping; media types are used for dispatch and
identifying the document, whilst namespaces are used for identifying
(but not dispatching) XML elements.
As a result, it's many-to-one; in time, there could be several
versions of SVG (and hence namespaces) mapping to image/svg+xml.
This is a somewhat desireable effect of using media types; not
disasterous to lose, but worth bearing in mind.
Similarly, the mapping is arbitrary; for example, an RSS 1.0
document's root namespace is that of RDF, yet there is still a need
(satisfied by media type) to identify that document as RSS.
I think the question here is whether a namespace URI can be used to
identify a document, for purposes of dispatch, as well as identifying
(some of) the XML elements within. My impression of the namespaces
discussion is that using them for dispatch in XML is overloading
them; it isn't designed into them, but it can be done with careful
thought. Using them as document identifiers would seem to be more of
the same.
This is interesting in light of the XML Processing Model workshop; I
don't think namespaces and media types as dispatch mechanisms weren't
talked about very much.
Mark Nottingham, Research Scientist
Akamai Technologies (San Mateo, CA USA)
