A better business case is "hey, web design companies! if you write
accessible HTML you might get government contracts easier!" -- but
that is a 508 business case, not a general web accessibility business
case.
I agree in principle with everything you have said here Kynn but wouldn't it
strengthen the business case as well as the Section 508 compliance pitch if we
edited your response to read:
"Hey, web design companies - if you write accessible HTML you can extend your
client market to include xxxxxx people with disabilities as well as increase
your prospects for securing government contracts !"
Denise
Denise
Dr Denise L Wood
Lecturer: Professional Development (online teaching and learning)
University of South Australia
CE Campus, North Terrace, Adelaide SA 5000
Ph: (61 8) 8302 2172 / (61 8) 8302 4472 (Tuesdays &amp; Thursdays)
Mob: (0413 648 260)
WWW:http://www.unisanet.unisa.edu.au/staff/homepage.asp?Name=Denise.Wood
Right...but how many companies are going to want to chase after the small
number of people that are actually afflicted (for lack of a better word) with
those disabilities, or severity thereof, that actually affect the use of the
web?
Take your point John. However it depends on which statistics you quote. I have
seen conservative estimates of 10% of the population and also statistics
estimating up to 40% if you take into account the "hidden disabilities". The
other aspect to this is our aging population. Increasingly we hear of retired
folk going online. Internet courses for the over '50s in Australia are hugely
profitable - always sold out. We know in general companies are targeting
consumer products to reach this population. We also know older people have a
range of age-related problems, not the least being visual impairments. So I'd
argue that this is most certainly not a "small number of people".
Furthermore, nobody teaches accessible web design. No college student I know
taking IT-related major with a web concentration has to learn accessible web
design. And after college...why would the developers want to take the time
learning something that after one or two projects is going to be useless?
There are courses that teach accessible web design. I am enrolled in two
concurrently - one run through the International Webmasters Association (Kynn
is the instructor - free plug there Kynn) and the other run by EASI in
conjunction with University of South Maine (conducted by Norman Coombs and
Dick Banks who are well known to some of you). True these courses should be
more readily available in all colleges and I hope that some day they will be
part of the "stable" of courses offered all IT training providers. That will
take some time but it will happen. Section 508 I think will drive that
interest as more and more private companies build accessibility standards into
their packages. This is already evident with Macromedia leading the field,
Adobe, Blackboard and WebCT all following close behind. So to get a job with a
major company in the future, IT graduates will need Web design skills that
meet these standards. Furthermore, the authoring tools themselves are now
providing accessibility checklists and auditing facilities to help designers
as they develop their web sites. OK still a way to go - but things are moving
in the right direction.
Denise
John
Denise
Dr Denise L Wood
Lecturer: Professional Development (online teaching and learning)
University of South Australia
CE Campus, North Terrace, Adelaide SA 5000
Ph: (61 8) 8302 2172 / (61 8) 8302 4472 (Tuesdays &amp; Thursdays)
Mob: (0413 648 260)
WWW:http://www.unisanet.unisa.edu.au/staff/homepage.asp?Name=Denise.Wood
providers. That will take some time but it will happen. Section 508 I think
will drive that interest as more and more private companies build
accessibility standards into their packages. This is already evident with
Macromedia leading the field, Adobe, Blackboard and WebCT all following
close behind. So to get a job with a major company in the future, IT
graduates will need Web design skills that meet these standards.
out of curiousity, Denise:
Why do you think that those companies (Macromedia, Adobe, etc.) will exist in
2-3 years?
I have to admit that I am working on several Open Source projects, and I do
(and will do!) my best to decrease power of those companies.
So, I would not advise to students to learn something just to have
possibility "to be hired by Macromedia, Adobe, Microsoft, etc."
It amy be that those companies would not exist by the time they finish
colledge or university ;-))
BTW: stocks of those companies are already moving into *right direction*.
If you haven't noticied - Macromedia stock slipped by 30% last week, and
Adove's revenues dropped by $100 mil. last quesrter (30% decrease)
Vadim Plessky
33 Window Decorations and 6 Widget Styles for KDE
KDE mini-Themes
