I have built Amaya 2.1 on Solaris 2.5.1 with EGCS-1.1.2.
The build was successful. On bringing up the manual
/home/hgs/AMAYA2/Amaya/doc/amaya/Manual.html
I had white text on a white hackground. My foreground color is set
to white, background to black. I suspect this is due to the foreground
colour not being specified in the document:
BODY { background-color : #FFFFFF } /style
etc
On browsing my home page
Amaya crashes with
*** Thot: Irrecoverable error ***
The first time it did that I checked with the validator
and I had a typo ATRONG ... /STRONG instead of STRONG ... /STRONG .
The response still seemed a little severe. I have corrected this, the
page validates OK now, but Amaya still crashes. I wonder if there
is a cache holding the old page? Looking at that manual page with
Netscape, I cannot see anything on command line options to flush
any such cache, or to increase diagnostic output.
The coloured popup legends on the button bar seem a bit bigger (thanks)
but they are still cream on yellow, and I cannot see anything to set
the font size or colour for those.
The colour "palette" doesn't seem to have an "apply" button, only
a "done" button, unlike the Character Style and Format menu items.
There seems therefore to be no way to override the colours imposed
by the document.
Thank you,
Hugh
hgs@dmu.ac.uk
In-reply-to: Your message of Thu, 01 Jul 1999 11:08:07 +0100."
Yes, this is an error in our page Manual.html. When we set the background color
we have to set the foreground color too.
I'll change for next versions.
I have a solaris box too but I have no problem with that URL.
Could you start Amaya on a debuger just to let us know where it crashs).
Yes there is a cache that you can purge (see the menu Special).
Tooltips use the foreground color, but you cannot change the yellow
color. That is a bug.
Right, we still plan to add it.
Irene.
Thank you.
How? I could not see anything about command line options...
Let me know how to give you enough info and I will. Thanks.
Flushed it. My page still crashes amaya.
Thanks for noting it. Which foreground colour -- the X one or
the Amaya (menus/fonts/etc) one? If it is the X one then
maybe pick up the background (X) colour instead of the yellow.
Ideally one would like to configure these within Amaya, I think.
Thanks. Maybe borrow Netscape's "always use my colours" feature,
but this ties in with style sheets so I'm not sure where it should
live :-)
Hugh
hgs@dmu.ac.uk
