All,
Today President Clinton spoke on a live webcast (was it accessible?) about
the Digital Divide at an organization called Plugged In in East Palo Alto.
www.pluggedin.org. It is quite interesting because as we all know people
with disabilities are victims of the digital divide.
I looked at the plugged in web site and this is what I found:
Their website does not look too accessible to me. Alt tags do not come up
on the image maps which mean they are not there or are coded wrong.
No alt tags that I can see on other images.
they do have some links on the bottom but they can do a lot better I am not
sure but the tables don t look to accessible either.
The other pages are pretty bad also.
The Portfolio can be found at: http://www.pluggedin.org/pie/portfolio.htm
It is full of Javascript and no alt tags I can find.
Their Portfolio itself has some real disasters.
The Forever Young Foundation
no alt tags, loaded with Javascript for starters. A real shame. It also
pops a separate window.
The Community Partnership site at http://www.communitypartnership.org/ has
a text only version now, but it did not for a long time.
Kids Survey is loaded with javascrip and I cannot find any alt tags.
The rest of the links to the portfolio don t work.
Pretty nasty stuff.
What a shame cause these kids are obviously quite talented.
I would venture to guess that this organization receives state and Federal
aid. Seems to me they have some legal obligations to make sure their work
is accessible.
Let me know what you think.
Sincerely,
Mike Burks
Dear Group,
I have been in the habit of ending list items with punctuation. I do this
because my earlier experience with screen readers was that they did not
pause at all at the end of each list item. I have gotten some grief for
this since the practice is, at best, questionable from a grammatical point
of view. Is this practice still necessary? Is it advisable? HTML 3.2 had
DIR and MENU but these have been deprecated. Is there any appropriate mark
up to differentiate a list where each bulleted item is one or two words each
versus a list where each item may be one or two sentences, or even multiple
paragraphs? Do any screen readers treat any of the unordered list types
differently?
Thank you.
Hi Bruce:
It is my experience that list items with punctuation
definitely make more sense with speech output than
items without such punctuation. I prefer periods following list items since this causes what I consider to be the most natural audio rendition. That is, it comes closest to the way someone would read the list out loud, a short pause between the list items. Without periods directly adjacent to the word (for single word list items), it sounds as if the word is being, what I very loosely refer to as, "chopped off". In such cases I have to repeatedly give the SayWord command to try to understand it. Sometimes I even have to go into Jaws cursor mode and spell out the word letter by letter.
many variables are involved, however, with settings that control the amount of punctuation spoken.
I usually have my punctuation set to "say most", rather than "all" or "some". This is, I would guess, a highly variable choice depending on preferrence and maybe even type of list.
If I understand the issue, it is however
more of a speech synthesizer issue rather than a screen reader issue, although both can affect how punctuation is pronounced and the associated pause behavior.
-Steve
Steve McCaffrey
Senior Programmer/Analyst
Information Technology Services
New York State Department of Education
(518)-473-3453
smccaffr@mail.nysed.gov
Member,
New York State Workgroup on Accessibility to Information Technology
Web Design Subcommittee
"Bruce Bailey" bbailey@clark.net 04/18/00 09:03AM
Dear Group,
I have been in the habit of ending list items with punctuation. I do this
because my earlier experience with screen readers was that they did not
pause at all at the end of each list item. I have gotten some grief for
this since the practice is, at best, questionable from a grammatical point
of view. Is this practice still necessary? Is it advisable? HTML 3.2 had
DIR and MENU but these have been deprecated. Is there any appropriate mark
up to differentiate a list where each bulleted item is one or two words each
versus a list where each item may be one or two sentences, or even multiple
paragraphs? Do any screen readers treat any of the unordered list types
differently?
Thank you.
I would advise making the list grammatical and doing proper markup. As you
probably know, Lynx puts various punctuations for bullets in front of list
items in an unordered list. The user will only hear them if these
punctuation marks are turned on as they read the page on their favorite
screen reader. In many bulleted lists, since IE puts the Windows-CP1252
character #149 in front of bulleted items, Window-Eyes will say "bullet" if
"enhanced" punctuation is set to "describe". If a person wants to grok the
items in a list, they may need to stop the automatic reading for a moment
and scan through the list line by line. In my opinion, this does not place
an undue burden on the reader.
Lloyd Rasmussen, Senior Staff Engineer
National Library Service f/t Blind and Physically Handicapped
Library of Congress (202) 707-0535 lras@loc.gov
HOME: lras@sprynet.com http://lras.home.sprynet.com
although both can affect how punctuation is pronounced and  the associated
pause behavior.
You are correct that both the screen reader and the synthesizer affect how
lists are pronounced, but synthesizers speak what they are told. One needs
to understand the "string of characters" that are sent to the synthesizer
by the screen reader. For example:
List 1:
First item
Second item
Third item
Next paragraph ...
Most screen readers and self-voicing browsers will send the entire string
of characters to the synthesizer and NOT add any punctuation that is not
there. Bullets in front of the list items are not punctuation in the
synthesizer sense, so the above example would be spoken without any pauses
as in the following:
List 1: First item Second item Third item Next paragraph ...
Since, in my opinion, lists are just reformatted sentences with commas, it
would be appropriate for the screen reader and self voicing browser to
attach a comma or semi colon to the end of each list item before sending
the string of characters to the synthesizer - but most do NOT currently.
For example. List 1: First item; Second item; Third item. Next paragraph
So, I also have a habit of adding the punctuation my self, but in invisible
ink, white text on white background, so users of text browser might "see"
the punctuation, the common user of the graphical browser would NOT "see"
the punctuation. The screen reader and self-voicing browser user would
hear the pause after each list item, as it should be. Once the screen
readers and self-voicing browsers automatically add the punctuation for
better sounding speech, I will remove the explicit invisible punctuation.
By the way, the same problem occurs after headings. When reading in
"automatic or read on" mode, the punctuation is not there unless added by
the screen reader or self voicing browser. Those screen readers and
voicing browsers that parse the HTML, should be able to more easily add the
appropriate punctuation. Of course when reading just the heading, or
navigating the list, the self-voicing browsers, such as IBM Home Page
Reader, correctly pause and or stop at the end of each heading or list
item.
This is a requirement for the assistive technology vendors - not for the
authors of web pages to fix. In my opinion, fixing the relative few
assistive technologies would be a lot more cost effective than requesting
billions of web sites to add grammatically incorrect punctuation to the end
of the lists.
Regards,
Phill Jenkins
As Phill pointed out, the punctuation is not ungrammatical, it is
un-stylistic. Had the same grammar of a list of items been presented in
inline style instead of in point format, the punctuation would have been
the default style because the rules of grammar apply in a way that they are
typically waived in point form.
Another angle on this issue is the availability in auditory styling
properties of a pause after each list item as a matter of style, which is
pretty much the right classification for this behavior. Audio does an
implicit convert to inline style as Phill explained, so the audio
punctuation in the form of pauses is just good style. Now if people were
only implementing the full CSS2...
Al
Dear all,
My thanks to the people who have responded off the list as well.
This has been very interesting to me. I did not realize this issue was so
ambiguous.
Since addressing this problem is helpful, why is there not a P3 checkpoint
associated with this?
What mark-up, using CSS, would people suggest, as the "right" way to fix
this problem? This may be kind of moot since aural style sheets are not
supported anywhere. By the time they are, I would hope that the new crop of
screen readers would be fixed so that they automatically pause after
headings.
As an interim solution, I like Phil's technique for making some punctuation
invisible. Phil, could you share a URL where you implement this? I have
see "invisible" text used to hide speech-oriented menus, for a good example,
see URL:
How common do people think this kind of technique is?
Do people think this technique is advisable?
Does HTML or CSS support a "transparent" color for text?
Thanks.
