Hello!
I'm working on the mother of all stylesheets for the XML-based
specifications, and I need some explanation as to how to format the
following elements, which appear to be specific to the DOM spec:
attribute, case, component, constant, definitions, descr, enum,
enumerator, exception, group, interface, member, method, module, param,
parameters, raises, reference, returns, sequence, struct, typedef,
typename, union
Any help that can be offered would be vastly appreciated. Alternately,
somebody could just ship me the XML source of a DOM spec with the
stylesheet you're using, and I can figure it out from there.
--- Ben Trafford
The MathML 2.0 Specification also contains a chapter and appendix
on a DOM for MathML. For this reason the Math WG also uses the DTD
fragment added by the DOM WG. The XSLT style sheets David Carlisle
and I have developed (one for HTML and one for LaTeX) contain
templates for most of the elements you list.
If you have access to the W3C CVS repository, you can find
the style-sheets in Math/Group/spec/style/html and
Math/Group/spec/style/pdf. Otherwise I can email them.
The DOM WG creates renderings with COST, a tool based on an
object-oriented variant of Tcl. I haven't looked at their
work, so I hope one of the DOM WG members will reply to
your question as well.
Regards,
Nico Poppelier
W3C Math WG, editor
I wish it was that simple. But the reality is that we don't currently
have any such thing as a stylesheet. Because the DOM spec predates XSL,
the DOM spec is generated with a quite complex set of scripts that will
be difficult to convert into a stylesheet. As Nico pointed out our
scripts are in Tcl and depend on a tool called COST. For one thing, not
only we generate the HTML, but we also generate the corresponding IDL,
the java binding with the javadoc, and the ECMAScript binding. And the
IDL and Java are both within the HTML spec itself and available as
separate files.
Many times the DOM WG has contemplated the idea of switching to XSL but
due to lack of resources we have not done anything yet. Being the person
who took over from the original contribution by Gavin Nicol and having
extensively changed/improved it, I probably now "own" most of the code
in there. So I could definitely help you do that though, and I'd be
happy to!
We should probably do that off line though.
Arnaud Le Hors - IBM Cupertino, XML Technology Group
