Hello, friends in the Web Accessibility Initiative!
Because I have recently accepted a new, full-time salaried position
with a company called Edapta, I am going to have to resign my
positions as a representative of the HTML Writers Guild in the
following WAI working groups:
1. Authoring Tools Accessibility Working Group
2. Protocols and Formats Working Group
The reason for this resignation is simple -- as I'll be working for
a company involved directly in web accessibility, it doesn't make
sense for the HTML Writers Guild to be subsidizing my involvement
in these working groups. Instead, I've suggested to Edapta management
that it should be part of my job to do so on behalf of Edapta. This
resolves the conflict of interest -- I can't represent both the
interests of the Guild and of Edapta at the same time, well, not with
a straight face.
This doesn't mean you'll be rid of me -- in fact, likely WAI
participants will see more of me than ever. However, it does mean
that when you speak to me, you won't be speaking to Kynn Bartlett,
HWG Guy, you'll be speaking to Kynn Bartlett, Edapta Guy. I'll
still be the same guy underneath, but just wearing a different
hat.
--Kynn Bartlett
Kynn Bartlett kynn@idyllmtn.com http://www.kynn.com/
Chief Technologist, Idyll Mountain Internet http://www.idyllmtn.com/
Become AWARE of Web Accessibility! http://aware.hwg.org/
The Spring 2000 Virtual Dog Show is now open! http://www.dogshow.com/
aloha, kynn!
as long as you remain actively involved in WAI work, i, for one, don't care
whose hat you wear!
i guess the question for the HTML Writers' Guild (HWG) now becomes, will it
continue to actively participate in the WAI?
i firmly believe that if the WAI's aims are to be achieved, it is
imperative that HWG continue to actively participate in (at least) the
Authoring Tool and Web Content Guidelines working groups... as creators of
web content, and the users of a wide range of authoring tools, the
individuals that collectively comprise HWG are one of the main target
audiences for the WAI suite of guidelines, and it is in the WAI's best
interest to ensure that the Guild's membership is kept abreast of the work
currently being performed by the AU and GL working groups, as it has been
during Kynn's tenure...
likewise, the WAI would continue to benefit from the active participation
of the largest organization of web professionals and hobbyists,
particularly in the evaluation of content creation tools against ATAG, for
the HWG's members' experience with this class of tool is both wide and
deep, and collaboration with a disabled evaluator would be an eye-opening
experience for all involved... the revision of WCAG would also benefit
from direct HWG participation -- not least in the contribution of
techniques that have been used in "real-life" situations in order to ensure
accessibility -- and, perhaps, even an example of accessible design in
action...
i'd also like to see other web content creation organizations involved in
the WAI process, but that's a subject for another emessage...
gregory
He that lives on Hope, dies farting
-- Benjamin Franklin, Poor Richard's Almanack, 1763
Gregory J. Rosmaita unagi69@concentric.net
WebMaster and Minister of Propaganda, VICUG NYC
Hi Gregory,
I do expect the Guild to continue to be involved in WAI in one fashion or
another. That is actually a topic of discussion at an upcoming executive
meeting this weekend!
Best,
Ann Navarro
AC Rep, HTML Writers Guild, Inc.
Kynn,
I echo Gregory's message, you are a valuable working group member in
your own right no matter what your affiliation. Separately, the Guild
should continue to participate in the working group given their
mandate and membership.
Jutta
