I took an action during today's telecon to summarize our discussion
of WCAG 11.4 so that we could continue it on the list.
The minutes are available at [1].
WCAG checkpoint 11.4 reads:
11.4 If, after best efforts, you cannot create an accessible page, provide
a link to an alternative page that uses W3C technologies, is accessible,
has equivalent information (or functionality), and is updated as often as
the inaccessible (original) page. [Priority 1]
Techniques for checkpoint 11.4
Note. Content developers should only resort to alternative pages when other
solutions fail because alternative pages are generally updated less often
than "primary" pages. An out-of-date page may be as frustrating as one that
is inaccessible since, in both cases, the information presented on the
original page is unavailable. Automatically generating alternative pages
may lead to more frequent updates, but content developers must still be
careful to ensure that generated pages always make sense, and that users
are able to navigate a site by following links on primary pages,
alternative pages, or both. Before resorting to an alternative page,
reconsider the design of the original page; making it accessible is likely
to improve it for all users.
"accessible page" is defined as:
Content is accessible when it may be used by someone with a disability.
There were a number of issues:
1. When does a person receive a message about providing an alternative
page? Is it only after they have not satisfied all P1 checkpoints, or all
P1 and P2? OR, do people start out by saying, "I want to reach X level of
conformance" and if they do not meet all of the checkpoints associated with
that level then they are given the alternative page option as a suggestion?
2. What are some automatic checks that we can perform to determine if a
page as been identified as an alternative page is up to date? if it is
truly an equivalent alternative page? One suggestion is to check that all
of the links on the inaccessible page available on the alternative
page. Others?
3. What action do we take if we identify/verify that an alternative page
exists? Do we suggest that they eliminate it since we prefer they try to
make a single accessible page? Do we analyze it to make sure it is
equivalent? Some feel it is a red flag indicating a "cop-out" in some
sense. Depending on the situation, an alternative page (or set of
alternative pages) is reasonable. The unfortunate example is when a
designer has created a whole site with Flash. The only alternative that we
are aware of is a set of alternative pages.
4. We also discussed using nested OBJECT elements (with text content as
the inner-most nest) depending on what type of object was being included.
thoughts?
--wendy
[1] http://www.w3.org/WAI/ER/IG/minutes/20000124.html
wendy a chisholm
world wide web consortium
web accessibility initiative
madison, wi usa
We have been contacted recently by a couple of people on their plans to
automatically generate text-only pages as alternative pages. This approach
seems reasonable assuming their page generator does provide an equivalent,
of course. It may be a 'cop-out' since they give the impression the
text-only pages will be generated whether or not needed. The technique is
understandable given the usual budget and time pressures. It also nullifies
the argument about text-only pages staying current.
One question they had was when one enters a text-only page, should the links
continue within the set of text-only pages or keep returning to the
graphical pages requiring 'rediscovery' of text-only links. They commented
that the answer is not obvious since their blind, Jaws using employee
prefers the second choice with the text-only page popping-up along with the
graphical page so sighted users with them can examine the graphical page at
the same time. Is this and other arguments compelling enough to continue to
discourage auto-generated text-only pages?
-Brian 32,000+ EV miles since 5/97! Renewable energy charging, soon!
BM:: "Is this and other arguments compelling enough to continue to
discourage auto-generated text-only pages?"
WL: IMHO, yes. The generation of text-only pages is non-trivial although
a case can be made that a Lynx simulator does just that. Separate ain't
equal. Alhough the notion of a cyber-ghetto may seem an overstatement,
it is too much like the wheel-chair user having to use the freight
elevator to get to the ballroom where she is to be awarded the "citizen
of the year" award.
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
BM:: "Is this and other arguments compelling enough to continue to
discourage auto-generated text-only pages?"
WL: IMHO, yes. The generation of text-only pages is non-trivial although
a case can be made that a Lynx simulator does just that. Separate ain't
equal. Alhough the notion of a cyber-ghetto may seem an overstatement,
it is too much like the wheel-chair user having to use the freight
elevator to get to the ballroom where she is to be given the "citizen of
the year" award.
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
There's a technical WCAG issue here regarding alternative pages.
WCAG states
Conformance Level "A": all Priority 1 checkpoints are satisfied;
Conformance Level "Double-A": all Priority 1 and 2
checkpoints are satisfied;
Conformance Level "Triple-A": all Priority 1, 2, and 3
checkpoints are satisfied;
Now lets say there's a page that flunks Level A, but a correpsonding
accessible page, a so-called "text only" page that passes triple A. And
lets say it's a case where there was just no other way to do it. So 11.4
properly applies.
If we read the conformance definitition literally the page still flunks
level A, because not all checkpoints are satisfied. This is if you read
WCAG very precisely, e.g. like a lawyer, programmer, or systems
engineer. I believe the spirit of WCAG was to pass the page if there's an
equivalent. So there should be an extra clause like
"However, a page links to an accessible page per checkpoint 11.4, the
conformance level of the former shall be the conformance level of that
alternative page."
Len
P.S. Note that if you object to alternative pages altogether, that's not
the issue here. That would be an argument for throwing out 11.4. I'm just
saying that WCAG needs this extra statement to say literally what I believe
was intended. By the way, personally speaking, I think that WCAG 11.4
P.P.S.
I'm personally faced with applying ratings to some State pages so this is
more than an academic issue to me.
Len
Leonard R. Kasday, Ph.D.
Institute on Disabilities/UAP, and
Department of Electrical Engineering
Temple University
423 Ritter Annex, Philadelphia, PA 19122
kasday@acm.org
(215) 204-2247 (voice)
(800) 750-7428 (TTY)
Len,
I propose that you take this to the WCAG list.
--w
wendy a chisholm
world wide web consortium
web accessibility initiative
madison, wi usa
