Dave--
I'd separate the issue of acronyms from pronunciations.
Reasoning:
Commonly used abbreviations tend to be universal and context independent
e.g. UNO means the United Nations independent of the document in which it
occurs.
These abbreviations can be handled by client-side dictionaries that apply
across the board to all documents; marking them up in an individual document
instance is unnecessary.
On the other hand, there are many commonly used acronyms that are heavily
context-dependent.
Jan in a calendar is January;
but you dont want the speech UA to say January every time it sees Jan.
This latter category of acronyms would be useful to markup.
In fact marking up "lb" might help both speech users as well as non-native
speakers of English
i.e. acronym title = "pounds" lb /acronym
Best Regards,
--raman
as representative of my employer, Adobe Systems Inc.
That makes sense and is what I was intending. We should work towards
handling pronunciation in a new attribute that encodes phonemic and
prosodic information. The TITLE attribute amplifies the meaning by
expanding the acronym. An example peculiar to the UK:
Right, or which are unlikely to appear in dictionaries.
Except this is really an abbreviation, that is easily handled by
client-side dictionaries.
Yes, that is how I would use it too.
Regards,
Dave Raggett dsr@w3.org
tel +44 122 578 2521 url http://www.w3.org/People/Raggett
World Wide Web Consortium (on assignment from HP Labs)
TVR Jan in a calendar is January;
TVR but you dont want the speech UA to say January every time it sees Jan.
TVR
TVR This latter category of acronyms would be useful to markup.
DSR Except this is really an abbreviation, that is easily handled by
DSR client-side dictionaries.
Not rue. If a client-side dictionary went ahead and treated Jan as an
abbreviation for January,
you'd get
the first name "Jan" spoken as January.
TVR In fact marking up "lb" might help both speech users as well as
TVR non-native speakers of English i.e.
TVR acronym title = "pounds"TVR lb /acronymTVR
Yes, that is how I would use it too.
Best Regards,
--raman
as representative of my employer, Adobe Systems Inc.
