I was guilty of overstating the case for the WAI, since the Web clearly
benefits some subset of people with a wide range of disabilities, including
people with visual and motor disabilities today. Some of the potential
users are ruled out because the browser is unsatisfactory for them, some
because the source material is inaccessible, and many because they don't
have access to the technology, either because of financial or logistical
problems.
I do think that the WAI is an important opportunity to influence the source
material issues of the Web now. It seems that there is also some
significant interest in browser issues. Changes made now actually have
some chance to affect the quality of access and its reach.
To suggest that work for the vision impaired is a prerequisite to, or
directly portable to, work for other groups of disabled is inaccurate.
Work for the vision impaired is not solely useful for the vision
impaired. A huge group of people with learning disabilities, that far
exceeds the population of the visually impaired, require these changes
for effective access to the Web because they have difficulty reading.
Although we have started in the blindness field, we have have
increasingly been researching the needs of the LD population, which
has a significant overlap with the needs of the blind.
The ability to get better information about document structure and
content is useful to the blind and might well be applicable to the
needs of someone who needs the material in a less complex form,
although they may be sighted. I've had good conversations with folks
providing servers that take complex documents and break them down into
less complex documents. I think this trend could be valuable to
another large segment of people with disabilities.
Addressing the needs of the blind will be a prerequisite to and
portable to some groups of people with disabilities, and not to
others. This is a more accurate statement than my earlier message.
Jim Fruchterman jim@arkenstone.org
President Arkenstone, Inc.
555 Oakmead Parkway 1-800-444-4443
Sunnyvale, CA 94086 USA 1-408-245-5900
The U.S. Access Board has recently developed guidelines for
implementation of Section 255 of the Telecommunications Act. The U.S.
Department of Ed has just developed software guidelines for those
interested in contracting with the Department. In the near future,
the Department will complete a draft of guidelines for Section 508 of
the Rehabilitation Act which requires electronic accessibility in the
Federal workplace.
If you want copies of these documents, I will be glad to get them to you.
Kate Seelman
Director
NIDRR
For many of the problems associated with WWW access many of the problems
can be solved and probably can only solved on the browser side.
I guess we're boiling down to saying that Source and User-agent side
are equally important. We plan to adress both in the WAI.
My personal take on that is that Source is the *enabling*
part while the user-agent work is the *delivering* part. Whatever that
means :-)
It's on our agenda for the Boston meeting (Tuesday August 5th) which
is going to be focused on guidelines (all kind).
For information on some of the features of a browser based on UD principles
see the page at:
Thanks for the pointer, I'll attach them to the agenda.
(I already knew your work Jon, and I hope you are going to be able to
participate in the WAI).
Does the W3C have influence with major browser developers like Netscape or
Microsoft over user interface design issues?
We hope to think so!
They are both members.
As audiotapes go on the web, people who are deaf will have problems.
I don't think you should assume that people interested in vision
impairments are only interested in the source problems.
[GV }
absolutely. People with all disabilities have access issues at the
browser / viewer end.
Couple of additional thoughts.
- Source documents used to only be a problem for people with sensory and
cognitive disabilities.
- Now that we are including user interface issues in source materials (e.g.
Java applets et al) we are making source materials a problem for people
with all disabilities.
- Moreover, solutions in the browser (e.g. if we have an accessible
browser) are not enough if the source materials (including the applets) are
not accessible as well.
- This is just more evidence for not treating them as separate entities in
discussion accessibility.
Gregg
Gregg C Vanderheiden
