I am on the Education and Outreach Working Group and these are my beliefs
and not a comment from the EO.
We need to remember our audience that we must reach is both technical and
non-technical. Actually i argue they are more non-technical. This group has
become conditioned to instant gratification - unlike members here that
understand the issues and can disect the points verbatim.
People want to learn and are already taxed in a fast paced environment with
zero overhead. They are pushed to be more productive so margins can be met
at corporate. We are throwing so much at people. I give presentations and
eduacate people/groups constantly in the DC Metro area and other spots
across the USA. So I see the looks on people's faces contantly. Here is a
simplistic scenario for a developer.
1. Comprehend what universal accessibility is.
2. Understand what their audience is up against so they "get it"
3. Sell this to their boss so they "get it".
4. Obtain approval to work on the redesign. If they are turned down due to
timing or poor presentation, hopefully they continue with the next steps.
5. Read all literature - including WCAG and train.
6. Test concepts so they get up to speed and train
7. Implement without someone there who has any experience doing this.
8. Tell their manager they are compliant.
9. Train everyone else.
We all are working on many processes to help UA along. Formal training and
certification is one area and guidelines is another. I believe we need
another set of Guidlelines or on the next revision that are written so they
can be easily understood and implemented.
Tonight I gave a presentation at the House of Representatives (Staffers &amp;
System Adminstrators) Networkers Association meeting. I was one speaker
among many talking about univerasal acessibility. Like many people they are
trying to grasp what this is and what is involved. They must be able to
sell this to their managers as well as the training, and processes to help
this along. They need time to redesign the site while they are justifing
this These are the types of people we need to target for universal
accessibility to be a success! We need everyone to help make the WCAG easily
digestable, especially the priority and conformance level. (One thought
process would be better - keeping the conformanace level since it has
received so much publicity).
Implementing universal accessibility is a passion I share with many here.
To me the WAI's job is full life cycle development that involves all
facets - the groups. Just so happens, i beleive, the WCAG are now at the
forefront and they need to be easily implemented so all efforts will be
successful.
rob
The definitions of priority and conformance lelvels are inextricably
connected. One way of eliminating priorities would be to specify, in the
conformance statement, exactly which checkpoints had to be satisfied at
each level of conformance. There are several reasons why such a solution
would be a retrograde move and why it should not be supported. First, by
eliminating the priorities from the document, one would thereby remove a
very convenient and practical indication, associated with each checkpoint,
of the level of conformance to which it pertains (priority 1 checkpoints
relate to level A only, priority 1 and 2 checkpoints relate to levels A
and double-A; priority 3 checkpoints relate to all three conformance
levels). Thus, if you want to satisfy the guidelines at a double-a level,
you can simply work through the list, ignoring priority 3 checkpoints.
This makes it very easy to connect the intended level of conformance to
the task at hand, its being recognised that level A compliance is an
important short-term goal, whereas tripple-A compliance could be regarded
as a medium-term objective from the standpoint of an organisation or web
site maintainer.
If the priorities were removed, then in order to implement a specific
priority level one would need a list of which checkpoints pertained to
which level of conformance; and a user of the document would have to
cross-reference each checkpoint against the relevant list. For me at
least, and I suspect for many others as well, this would be impractical,
and would probably act as a disinsentive that would discourage adoption of
the guidelines.
A second shortcoming of such a proposal is that the conformance statement
would then become very lengthy and complex, as it would have to specify
all of the individual checkpoints that related to each conformance level.
A system in which, instead of a priority, each checkpoint was labeled with
the names of the conformance levels to which it pertained (E.G. a priority
2 checkpoint would carry the designation, "A and double-A") is also
problematic due to the existence of so-called "split priorities" in the
document, which it has not been possible to eliminate. Their existence is
a reflection of the observation that the importance of satisfying
particular requirements can vary depending on the nature of the document
as a whole. For example, language identification is more important in
multilingual texts than in unilingual documents, owing to the difficulty
of identifying language switches automatically based on textual analysis;
whereas in the case of a monolingual text the language can more easily be
identified, or at least it would be more reasonable to expect the reader
to identify the language and set a software option. Other examples of
split priority in the guidelines result from the differing importance that
certain information can have in the context of a variety of documents.
I would also dispute the assertion that the existing scheme of priorities
is complex or difficult to understand. If it is well explained (and the
definitions are clear and accurate), then it should not create any
substantial obstacle to the application of the guidelines. Education in
the use of the WCAG is undoubtedly needed; especially at a priority 2
level and above, it fundamentally challenges the approach to web site
development to which many authors have grown accustomed. This educative
role is being most capably exercised by the Education and Outreach Working
Group, as I understand the present circumstances.
The basic point of the present contribution, however, is to argue that the
existing priority and conformance definitions are better than the simpler
alternatives which I have considered. The only prospect of simplifying the
system appears to reside in the possibility of attempting to eliminate
split priorities; but these were arrived at after much thought and
discussion, and I doubt that they could be readily removed without
undermining the integrity of the document, though this issue clearly
deserves further consideration when and if the guidelines are redesigned.
I think the question should be: is there any aspect of the existing
definitions which would not be clear to an attentive and intelligent reader?
rob sorry, but i think "attentive and intelligent reader" is a small subset
of the overall audience, which includes artist, writers, editors, database
designers and administrators, programers, coders, system administrators,
line managers, supervisors, and senior managers (all of whom may or may not
have a web background).
but to answer, your question, yes.
have we identified the target audience? maybe it is time to consider,
"guidelines for dummies"? If we build it, they will come and embrace it.
rob
The task of this working group is to write clear, accurate and
comprehensive guidelines; that of the Education and Outreach working group
includes introducing these concepts to a non-technical audience. The two
requirements should not be conflated. Of course, if there are significant
ambiguities in the guidelines and/or techniques document, they ought to be
remedied in the next version, but as Al has argued, the priority system
serves two purposes: it defines the conformance levels and provides a
gradation of requirements depending on their impact upon people with
disabilities. No one has yet proposed a simpler system that would satisfy
these requirements. I think the question should be: is there any aspect of
the existing definitions which would not be clear to an attentive and
intelligent reader?
I think here is where i have the problem. Jason said, "The guidelines are
meant to be an authoritative reference"
As someone who has dealt considerably with requirements for engineering like
ANSI, IEEE, Military standards, Safety of Flight, etc., I do not see the
term "guidelines" as meant to be an authoritative reference. In the
enginnering world, the more proper term would be "specification". A
guideline would be less formal, more of a "how to" or a suggestions and
would be referenced from a more formal document or specification.
This is semantics but subject to interpretation by a wide and vaired
audience. This is a very important point becasue i am not familiar with the
W3C publish standards. Hmmm, couldnt Guideline be replced with standard?
If the guidelines are to be amended and re-approved, then that is a given.
A federal entity is expected to endorse the AA conformance level, i think
that is enough incentive to make sure the guidelines' issues are flushed
out and resolved. The alternative would be poorly implemented or possible
useless web sites. Then if they were amended later, there will be much
rework, increased costs and very angry web developers who are caught in the
middle. You may not know, but I am one of these Federal web developers and
it is an uphill battle. I have shown this to developers and managers and
they stare and wonder what this thing is. We need to make guidelines that
can be easily sold!. Adding an executive summary would be extremely
helpful. We need something that is easily digestable.
I have an issue with perceptions on "what is expected". If the checklist is
to be a "convenient point of reference which can be used in day-to-day web
content development activities," then this may be where the effort to direct
people and the "Checklist for Dummies" approach can be used. Plus, Chuck and
Geoff's tutorial will help and a training video would be solid too.
As for the Education and Outreach efforts, this is predicated upon a solid
base (my opinion).
rob
It should also be added that there are several important constraints under
which the guidelines operate:
1. They are expected to be implemented by tool developers (E.G. the Bobby
evaluation software and tools being developed by the ER working group).
2. They may be referred to, directly or indirectly, in governmental
policies and legal proceedings.
3. They can not be substantially changed without undergoing the W3C
approval process.
Several consequences follow from the above considerations. Firstly, the
guidelines must be technically precise if they are to be implemented and
used as the basis of regulation and policy. Second, they need to be as
general as possible, so that they will not be rendered inadequate by every
change in technology or in applicable technical standards.
This is why the details of the requirements, and how to apply them, are
left to the techniques document, and why the Education and Outreach
working group has undertaken to document access requirements suitably for
non-technical audiences. The guidelines are meant to be an authoritative
reference, not a tutorial. It is to be expected that most people will
concentrate on the techniques document or relevant educational materials,
and refer to the guidelines only when it is time to check for conformance,
by which stage they should be sufficiently familiar with the issues at
stake to understand the terms in which the requirements are exprssed. Once
an individual has reached this level of knowledge, the checklist offers a
convenient point of reference which can be used in day-to-day web content
development activities.
i think manager and developers that i encounter would brush off a document
with the word guideline. This term is associated with a company or federal
agenct or office's guideline. That is, everyone modifies a document to
build guidleines.
However, everyone understands the seriousness of standards and
specifications.
Jason, appreciate the good discussion.
Would it make sense at this time to conduct an survey to WAI-IG or others to
solicit their opinion on the guidelines and how they are being received?
/rob
Employing Robert's terminology, it can be said that the guidelines are
analogous to a standard or specification; the techniques document provides
explanation and concrete implementation advice; and they both need to be
supplemented by tutorials, quick reference lists, and so forth. The
guidelines presuppose familiarity with web-related standards and
technologies.
RN:: "...maybe it is time to consider, "guidelines for dummies"? "
WL: There is probably nothing in copyright law to stop you from taking
that as an action item! I'm sure it would have a much wider audience
than the *real* guidelines. Go get 'em Rob. In fact when you are doing
the highly estimable job of talking to groups about this, it pretty much
is what used to be called "popularizing" for particular audiences. It
is far too much to expect of those in the instant working groups to
desert our "ivory towers" but it's clear that it wants doing.
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
