Time:
10:00:00 Fri Jun 29 2001 in America/New_York
which according to:
converts to:
15:00:00 Fri Jun 29 2001 in Europe/London
23:00:00 Fri Jun 29 2001 in Asia/Tokyo
Phone Number: +1 630 536 3003 room #3003
irc: irc.openprojects.net #rdfcore
WELCOME, ROLL CALL, SCRIBE
REVIEW AGENDA
REVIEW MINUTES OF MEETING on 15th June 2001
with the correction that action JUN-01-01-#1 was closed as per
REVIEW MINUTES OF TELECON on 22nd June 2001
with the correction that only Brian should be shown as chair as per
and action JUN-01-01-#1 was closed in the previous meeting as per
and action A4 was closed and discussion of the issue
#rdfms-reification-required was postponed.
CONFIRM FOLLOWING ACTIONS COMPLETED (1 min)
ACTION: 2001-06-22#6: DanBri: start activating issues on RDFS
REVIEW STATUS OF FOLLOWING ACTIONS (5 min)
ACTION: JUN-01-01-#9: Ora: send a note to the WG that describes
how aboutEach is being used and how it was implemented
ACTION: 2001-06-22#2: Brian: Write a draft on what issues are in scope,
how are they allocated to partitions, what are the dependencies.
ACTION: 2001-06-22#3: All: Post issue priorities with reasons
ACTION: 2001-06-22#4: Sergey: Summarize priorities that are posted
ACTION: 2001-06-22#5: DanBri: Get a draft of RDFSchema to the group.
ACTION: 2001-06-22#7: Brian: Do a writeup of the containers proposal.
ACTION 2001-06-08#2: Dan Brickley: write up decision to allow partial
descriptions of containers up in more detail for the
list
ISSUE rdf-containers-syntax-ambiguity, rdf-containers-syntax-vs-schema
Brian McBride (10 mins)
Resolve that the container specific productions (M&amp;S Section 6, productions
6.25 to 6.31) and any references to them be removed from the grammar.
Resolve that rdf:li elements will be translated to rdf:_nnn elements
when they are found matching either a propertyElt (production 6.12) or a
a typedNode (production 6.13).
This change is made because:
o the container specific productions in the grammar are redundant and
add nothing to the language.
o The container specific productions fail to recognise subclasses of
container.
o The current specification is unclear about how to process rdf:li
elements which are not propertyElt's recognised within a container
specific production.
An advantage of the decision is that rdf:li elements can be used to
number members of sub-classes of containers.
There are test cases in:
This closes these issues.
ISSUE rdfms-difference-between-ID-and-about Aaron Swartz (10 mins)
Consider Aaron's resulution in:
ISSUE rdfms-aboutEach-on-object Steve (10 minutes)
Consider Steve's summary in:
Decide whether to accept Steve's recommendation to disallow aboutEach
on objects.
ISSUE rdfms-xml-base Owner Jan Grant (10 mins)
Discuss Jan's proposal in:
Next meeting - 10am Boston time, 6th July 2001. Is this feasible,
given the 4th July Holiday?
AOB (5 mins)
CLOSE
I've got an objection to the proposal I wrote up which only occurred to
me the other day.
The proposal I made (which was a summary of consensus as I understood it
in the telecon, not necessarily anything I'm advocating strongly) was a
change to paragraph 204:
And I said:
[quote]
There's already been some talk about fragment IDs, but I think it was
the first sentence that we decided needed expanding in scope. Something
simple such as this:
"...using the base URI of the document in which the RDF statements
appear.
In the case of RDF which is embedded within other XML, the base URI of
the embedded RDF shall be taken as the base URI of an element appearing
at the same position in the containing document. That is, the effect
of any mechanism that the containing document might use to specify a
base URI* is 'inherited' by the contained RDF.
In the case of serialised RDF which does not naturally have a base URI
(for instance, RDF transmitted as part of an HTTP request), the meaning
of
relative URIs is undefined, except where the transport protocol
specifies a mechanism for supplying a base URI, in which case that base
URI is used if supplied.
If a fragment identifier..."
It might need more wordsmithing, but that (I think) sums up the
discussion of 2001-06-15. If this meets with approval it ought to go on
the errata - however, I'm off for the remainder fo the week so
I'd appreciate it if someone else could pick this up from here.
[end quote]
This sounded plausible at the time; I recall Ron indicating that an
xhtml* (or suchlike) parser could "hand over" a base URI to an RDF
parser when dealing with embedded RDF. However, it occurs to me that we
might also want to just be able to have an RDF parser look through XML
for bits of embedded RDF and only process those; the wording above then
puts a burden on the RDF parser of not only parsing the surrounding XML
context, but grokking whatever arbitrary mechanisms it might use for
specifying an alternative base URI.
So while the proposed paragraphs above look plausible on first view,
they quickly descend into a hand-waving non-normative woolly fuzz**. I'm
aware that this issue is taking a lot of energy that might be more
profitably spent elsewhere. So I'm thinking it might be better to put
this issue on hold until someone wants to deal with the other half of
the story, which I think is issue rdfs-fragments:
- unless anyone has any other suggestions? (Which I'd invite now)
jan
* substitute XML format of your choice here.
** yes, that's a technical term.
jan grant, ILRT, University of Bristol. http://www.ilrt.bris.ac.uk/
YKYBPTMRogueW... you try to move diagonally in vi.
This meeting looks so well-prepared that I'll probably
attend to my other commitment at that time. Please
accept my regrets.
I hereby second the following proposals...
I accept that as a true record.
Looks good.
Hmm... I suppose I owe something here. Apologies; no progress.
Seconded.
Seconded. (I'm in support of any proposed improvements
to the wording that are acceptable
to Aaron and the chair.)
seconded.
Hmm... I'm not sure I can support this one.
I'll try to say why in reply to that message...
if you don't hear futher from me, I abstain on this one.
Dan Connolly, W3C http://www.w3.org/People/Connolly/
