Suggestions for things for consistency across the docs that the
Series Editor - Brian - might want to consider:
1) The phrasing, order and titles of the documents at the start of
all the RDF specs, usually in the Introduction section (as Frank raised).
For example:
which I seem to have in a random order; I can't recall how I
picked that one. Or in the latest primer draft:
We really need the new model theory doc title if it is changing
Pat: Is it something like RDF Formal Semantics: Model Theory ?
Maybe also consider if this list should be in all documents?
2) The [RDF-SEMANTICS] reference labels to use
In particular I'm trying to use the new title
"RDF Vocabulary ..." [RDF-VOCABULARY] etc. rather than emphasis
the schema word.
3) The acknowledgements section with respect to current/former WG members.
I offer my shorter version of the concepts doc section (last two
paragraphs):
More trivially:
4) Example code block styles
I think primer and syntax are mostly in alignment here since they
we use the same style. I tend to give each one a label, link to
it and have files that can be clicked / downloaded / validated
particularly for complete examples.
5) Figure colo(u)r schemes
If we cared, so that the nodes and arcs were similar. However
Pat's pictures are so pretty, I don't want him to change them ;)
I had a comment that the black-on-red nodes I used was bad
contrast and a bit difficult to read, especially when printed.
Maybe the black-on-green nodes also has this problem?
Cheers
Dave
[caught in spam trap -rrs]
Date: Mon, 28 Oct 2002 14:49:52 -0500 (EST)
Message-Id: 200210282148.14662.jjc@hpl.hp.com
From: Jeremy Carroll jjc@hpl.hp.com
Organization: Hewlett Packard
Subject: [Moderator Action] Re: RDF Core WDs document consistency items
I have a few more ...
before that, I am not sure if this cross WD consistency is a goal at this
point. I thought we were concentrating on the content.
I was imaging that the current batch would have quite a few glaring stylistic
inconsistencies - and fixing those would be the major change before last
call.
However, if there are things we can fix now, than I am not averse to doing so
- but with problems like needing to see the new formal semantics in order to
reference it, but it's not ready yet - well that's what the next draft will
fix.
Suggestions for the series editor, maybe for the next round ...
Status of this document
(I think the series editor should draft us all a boiler plate which draws
attention to what we are seeking feedback on at this time - I guess
individual documents may vary a bit - but the key issues are cross document
now)
Versions referenced of various docs (specifically all the WD should refence
each other, not older versions, this means the publication date needs to be
fixed)
Style for notes
Style and policy with respect to referring to test cases (at least all the
normative specs)
Titles should all follow what the manual of style says.
Title [(ACRONYM)] ["Level" n] ["Specification"][: Subtitle] ["Module"] [(nth
"Edition")] ["Version" Version_Number]
e.g.
Resource Description Framework (RDF): Formal Semantics
Resource Description Framework (RDF): Concepts and Abstract Data Model
Resource Description Framework (RDF): XML Syntax
Resource Description Framework (RDF): Primer
Resource Description Framework (RDF): Test Cases
Resource Description Framework (RDF): Vocabulary
Jeremy
No, lets just make it "RDF Semantics", or "RDF Formal Semantics" if
people prefer. I'll let Brian choose.
Toning down the red to pinkish will probably fix that.
IHMC(850)434 8903 home
40 South Alcaniz St.(850)202 4416 office
FL 32501 (850)291 0667 cell
phayes@ai.uwf.edu http://www.coginst.uwf.edu/~phayes
s.pam@ai.uwf.edu for spam
The shed shall be painted green and the document shall be titled "RDF
Semantics".
Brian
