The commentary at http://www.w3.org/Submission/2002/06/Comment discusses
the limitation of "rights" languages with respect to expressing all
possible exceptions. I have been interested in this subject for some
time, prompted initially by talking to representatives of various
societies for blind people in the context of eBook consumption.
It struck me that expressing low-level definitions of permitted actions
is where things start to go wrong. If I say that an eBook can only be
consumed using a certain font, on a certain device, etc, etc, then the
exception of allowing a text-to-speech conversion is ruled out.
However, a publisher could not possibly think of all the exceptions. It
is simply not scalable.
Would it not be better to allow some form of trusted interpretation of a
higher-level set of rules? Before people start shouting about
complexity, I don't say this is an easy task, and it certainly requires
a well thought-out trust framework.
Using trusted interpretation that takes account of trusted context, one
might even be able to tackle some of the "70 years after death" issues
(a certificate from a trusted agency attesting to date of death might
form part of the context of interpretation). Interpretation is not
restricted to changing existing rules; it might introduce some new ones,
based on well-defined meta rules.
I attach a paper (Zip archive containing HTML + 5 images) that I don't
think I've shared with this list before (I might have, if so,
apologies), although it has been shared with MPEG and OeBF so some
readers may have seen it. It explores some ideas around the above
theme. Please view the ideas as examples, and not an attempt at a
definitive answer. I'd be interested in responses.
Best regards,
/Dave Parrott
Dr David J. Parrott (Chartered Engineer) Business Technology Group
Reuters Limited, 85 Fleet Street, London EC4P 4AJ, UK.
Visit our Internet site at http://www.reuters.com
Any views expressed in this message are those of the individual
sender, except where the sender specifically states them to be
the views of Reuters Ltd.
Along the lines of David Parrott's excellent posting, I refer members of this
list to the following:
Mulligan, D., Burstein, A., and Erickson, J. Supporting Limits on Copyright
Exclusivity in a Rights Expression Language Standard. A requirements submission
to the OASIS Rights Language Technical Committee. On behalf of The Samuelson
Law, Technology &amp; Public Policy Clinic, and The Electronic Privacy Information
Center. August 13, 2002.
From the Introduction:
Copyright law grants certain rights to purchasers and other users of copyrighted
works. It is neither a legal nor a practical requirement for users to declare
(or claim) these rights explicitly in order to enjoy them. While the public's
legal rights cannot be altered by Digital Rights Management (DRM) systems per
se, we can imagine scenarios in which DRM systems may require users to make
these kinds of declarations, in order to work around inherent technical
limitations. It is therefore essential that a rights expression language (REL)
provide the vocabulary necessary for individuals to express, in a
straightforward way, the rights that copyright law grants them to use materials.
The user's claim of right would provide the essential information for a
usage-rights issuing agency to give the user the technical capability to use the
work in a particular way.
For the purposes of this discussion we will set aside the question of whether
contract law may qualify (or narrow) the rights that a recipient of a work has
under copyright law, acknowledging that there are contexts in which a party may
wish to narrow the rights it grants to the recipient of a work. Outside the
context of the relationships created by copyright between rights holders and
users, there are contractual relationships that the REL must also support. For
example an employer may want to control employee use of company information. In
many instances it is important that both parties in the relationship be able to
assert their rights and/or desired terms. True negotiation between parties
requires that, at a minimum, the REL provide the vocabulary and syntax to
support bi-directional exchanges. Otherwise, the rights transaction reduces to
the mere request for and acceptance of an offer of permissions asserted by the
rights holder.
This document therefore suggests certain accommodations that DRM architectures,
and especially their rights expression language components, must make to
adequately express certain core principles of copyright law. Rights holders must
have the means to express that a work is available on terms that reflect
existing copyright law, as opposed to the limitations of a simple contract. The
REL must also enable rights holders to express the more generous terms -i.e.
copyleft, with attribution - commonly attached to digital resources today. At a
minimum, recipients of works must have the ability to assert their rights as
recognized under copyright law, and have these assertions reflected in their
ability to use the work. Extending an REL to support a broader range of
statements that reflect current law is, however; insufficient. The rights
messaging protocol (RMP) layer must also be extended to accommodate both the
downstream and upstream assertion of rights. We recognize that the RMP layer is
not currently within the scope of this discussion, but we believe that the
assumption of a one-way expression of rights has in part led to the current
deficiencies in the REL.
We will first review the DRM Reference Model, a generic view of how current DRM
systems operate and the basis for our discussion. Next, we review the general
copyright reference model and explore specific exceptions to authors' exclusive
rights. We will then discuss and illustrate the tension between the DRM
Reference Model and the norms of copyright law and practice. In conclusion, we
recommend the establishment of a standardized rights messaging protocol and
recommend changes to the REL to increase its capacity to support
copyright-consistent expressions. While these changes do not reconcile the DRM
Reference Model with the legal framework of copyright, they will enhance the
ability of DRM system specification to accommodate both purchasers and rights
holders who are concerned with maintaining fair use activities.
John S. Erickson, Ph.D.
Hewlett-Packard Laboratories
PO Box 1158, Norwich, Vermont USA 05055
john_erickson@hpl.hp.com AIM/YIM/MSN: olyerickson
David, I'm obviously way behind on my email, but I thank you for the piece
on rights, which I will look over more carefully in the next few days.
I am concerned about the enumeration of rights as well, but perhaps from
another point of view. As someone involved in academic/non-profit
information I find the requirement to list of positive rights to be a
barrier. How would I, in most rights languages today, state that I wish the
work to be in the public domain? Must I list EVERYTHING that one is allowed
to do with the work? Similarly if I want my file to have to standard GNU
licensing terms - I would have a long list of "do's" to express what is a
fairly simple license.
Copyright law tells you what you cannot do, and leaves the rest to your
imagination. This prevents certain behaviors but allows for some level of
freedom and innovation. Reversing this to be: "if it isn't listed here you
can't do it" is going to run afoul of technological change very quickly.
If nothing else I want DRM systems to have a switch where I can say: this
license lists permissions/this license lists prohibitions.
kc
Karen Coyle kcoyle@kcoyle.net
Hi Karen,
a very interesting suggestion that also would cover the grey-areas we
defined at the DRM-Workshop.
Perhaps Renato can tell us more whether ODRL could also work with this
upside-down concept. It might also be the case that this can make DRM
less threatening in the overall community thus making it overall
possible. The best was always the enemy of the good. The will for
too much protection might hinder any acceptance of protection.
..yet another piece in the mosaic..
I'm pleased to see that my comment on the submission triggered a
reaction. It has taken me a long time as I tried to really understand.
Cheers,
Rigo Wenning W3C/INRIA
Policy Analyst Privacy Activity Lead
mail:rigo@w3.org 2004, Routes des Lucioles
Not at the moment, but this is planned for a subsequent update.
The ODRL model will be extended to include the "prohibited switch"
that Karen was talking about.
Cheers...Renato http://renato.iannella.it
Chief Scientist, IPR Systems Pty Ltd http://iprsystems.com
Karen,
I have never been comfortable with positive rules only.
Indeed, none of my requirements submissions to the various standards
efforts has ever assumed positive rights only. As you say, it is often
far simpler to list negative exceptions than positive rules.
There is a tendency for technologists to vote for whatever is the more
straightforward to implement. I believe that is why there is a bias
towards positive rules only. On the other hand, whatever languages
become the standards, they must be technically "implementable" in the
domains in which we seek to implement them.
Usually, the best way to drive these things is to participate in the
standards efforts and to submit use-cases. I don't know of any academic
studies of expressiveness for the various flavours of language construct
that exist today (grateful to hear, if anyone else does), so use-case
scenarios are probably the best we have right now for testing
expressiveness.
Regards,
/Dave.
Dr David J. Parrott (Chartered Engineer) Business Technology Group
Reuters Limited, 85 Fleet Street, London EC4P 4AJ, UK.
Visit our Internet site at http://www.reuters.com
Any views expressed in this message are those of the individual
sender, except where the sender specifically states them to be
the views of Reuters Ltd.
