Many of you may already have read this (or similar) reports,
but nevertheless...
A shame really,
Patrick
Patrick H. Lauke
Webmaster / University of Salford
I hadn't noticed - but I've read Accessify's comments now and find
that whilst I agree with some of them, *my* initial reaction is one of
resignation.
Whilst the RNIB could, clearly, have gone much further in their work
to get a more accessible *for all* website, they have a fairly narrow
focus, and probably bad consultants.
However, Mr. Ian Lloyd is going too far when he claim that they have
committed crimes by using a table-based layout. Them's spitin' words
indeed and sent me taking a good, close, look at the critique.
Accessify, who my mailclient informs me can be reached at
accessify%5Binsert@symbol%5Dyahoo.co.uk, also expresses a certain
degree of sadness because the RNIB site is not graphically pleasing to
him. Personally I find it quite cute, and fail to see what matters of
personal taste has to do with accessibility.
It would be pointless to argue such details as why he believes a h2
without a h1 to be "structurally incorrect" (as opposed, I hope, to
"structurally invalid" - which it isn't), or why Mr. Tim Roberts seem
to think that there are inherent accessibility benefits to using XHTML
(I've not seen any yet).
Following the debate on Accessify and other sites reveal a stunning
degree of interest in validation. For the purpose of ying and yang I
therefore point the honourable readers to line 51 in
12 in http://www.accessify.com/styles/style1.css
Lines 186 and 247 of http://simon.incutio.com/orange.css might also
be interesting.
That madeforall.com tries to import CSS files which doesn't exist
raises my trust in them. Could this be because, as the CSS spec states
quite clearly: "For CSS style sheets, the base URI is that of the
style sheet, not that of the source document." - and this doesn't
change because of a BASE HREF set ?
A fascinating debate. To quote GuyWeb
(http://www.guyweb.co.uk/archives/000647.asp):
"Yet another site to give UK webdesign a bad name."
(Oh, btw, could anyone tell me why the above can't be validated by the
CSS validator ? It gives me odd messages such as "Validate your XML
first".)
Tell me again why validation is important ?
A shame indeed. There is no reason what so ever why the RNIB should
not have used a HTML 4.01 Strict and CSS 2 design.
There is alot of people screaming bloody murder over this whilst
shuffling a variety of recently used blunt instruments under the
carpet and into the closet.
To the RNIB, to Accessify, to GuyWeb, to Simon Willison: DO try to
sweep your own before going out to sweep others.
This is a bloody disappointing mess all around.
- Tina Holmboe Greytower Technologies
tina@greytower.net http://www.greytower.net/
[+46] 0708 557 905
65669
:-( I'm a bit disappointed and deflated. It a bit awkward advocating
accessibility built on webstandards when a publically visible accessibility
lobby like the RNIB have a website that largely ignores webstandards. I
firmly belive that web standards compliance and good HTML structure build a
very good foundation for accessibility. Maybe I am being too greedy by
expecting accessibility and webstandards to be part of the same "bandwagon".
I'd like to hear from the RNIB themselves - particulary in their guidance on
accessibility issues. Did they consider WCAG as a foundation and add their
expertise on top of that? Did they think Priority A is enough for
accessibility (based on the non-valid and presentational laden HTML). Is the
message supposed to be: "We don't care either way how a website is designed,
we prefer starting with tossed tag salad and adding some nice accessible
toppings".
I realise I need to keep an open mind in this particular situation (my
judgement is visibly emotive rather than factual at this point - I admit),
and perhaps we (the mailing group) could consider inviting a representative
of the RNIB here to discuss their approach to their redesign, and the
message they want to deliver to UK based organisations and companies.
Its just a fixed available target, and a better option than playing
browser-catchup.
I apologise if the above sounds sarcastic and borders on provocative or
derogatory. So I've opted to try something a bit more constructive:
in any skip links and accesskeys yet, I basically wanted to see if the RNIB
design could be done using structured HTML and CSS layout, and using a
content-first approach. The skip links can be added in the same way as RNIB
have decided to do it (1pixel image as link text), although I'd probably
prefer an unordered list of links with proper link text to do the same job.
I see Simon Willison has also taken this approach:
Through the thread on this mailing list it looks like we've uncovered
another myth - that XHTML is more accessible than HTML. I'm heartened by the
excellent discussion on it, and it is clear to me it is nothing more than a
myth. Probably the a more accurate reflection is "valid and well structured
markup is generally more accessible by default than a collection of tags in
a random order."
True, though with a dynamic website there is a tendancy for pages not to
validate because of silly things like incorrect escaping of URLs - so there
is an element of risk that a page could be invalid after it was previously
valid. What matters, I guess, is how we deal with it (Notably Tim Roberts
has opted to fix the offending style - which is good).
As always, good sensible advice. We have to live up to our ideals if we ever
expect others to do so willingly too - otherwise we a prone to end up merely
chucking accusations of "its not accessible" , "neither is yours" with no
hope of a positive and ultimately end-user-beneficial outcome.
Mike
