As you may have noticed from the CVS notification system, I've been
rather active polishing the documentation for the Markup Validator
today.
In spite of a very tight schedule (between a flurry of national
holidays and an overseas trip) I am inclined to release v0.6.5 of the
Markup Validator tomorrow.
Rationale:
- Most of the issues regarding navigation are, I believe, sorted out;
- Most validation / broken links issues have been sorted out, too;
- I am now fairly happy with the source/install/devel documentation;
- Coordination with W3C Commm is going well and they are ready to
announce the release;
- I am aware that some problems (may) remain, but we're likely to have
to do a corrective release in a few weeks however long we take before
this release. If we're serious about trying to release often, this is
the time to prove it;
... and we haven't made a release in a very, very long time.
That said, if you think there is any important reason *not to* release,
please say so rapidly.
Ville, I gather you may want to update validator.spec. The syntax is
not so complicated, but I failed to understand some of its subtleties.
olivier
Tomorrow sounds even better now, since the CSS validator has (somehow
by mistake, I had forgotten to tell Yves I was working on the hTML
files) been updated and now sports the new style/interface. Will be
nice to update both services around the same time.
I am still struggling with last-minute issues and decisions... Bjoern
pointed out that changes I had made today was breaking a well-known
behaviour (clicking on a label should usually select the button, not go
to another page), so I reverted that.
I also changed the default to non-verbose on the homepage interface,
though I think it's OK to leave it preselected for the advanced
interface and revalidate box. Your opinions welcome by tomorrow, and in
any case, none of all this is cast in stone.
Below is my - proposed - compiled changelog for the announcement.
Opinions on this much welcome.
General
- new style, new (simpler) navigation mechanism [ shared with CSS
validator ]
- Bug tracking system now officially supported
- updating and expanding catalog of supported character encoding and
document types
Features / Bug fixes
- additional explanations for error messages in "verbose" mode -
contributed by the www-validator community -.
- new fallback mechanism when doctype or charset is missing
- fixed broken markup output bugs
- internationalization improvements, other small fixes
Documentation
- FAQ (NEW, added to the help page) lists a lot of the usual
validation problems
- installation documentation (NEW) makes it much easier to install the
markup validator locally
- user and developer's documentation (UPDATED)
olivier
(It also breaks keyboard navigation to some extend as you would
select the checkbox, then the label, then the link, etc.)
It would somehow suggest that the results you got in the first place
already *are* verbose and there is no point in re-validating it. I
had similar issues with, AFAIR, the show source checkbox, as it was
unchecked and yet it showed the source.
I think we should not announced that this is "shared" with the CSS
Validator. I for example get the german version of the CSS Validator
by default which is not updated and it's currently a bit unfinished...
We should probably also point out that this is more a maintenance
release than The Next Generation.
Indeed, forcing source display is yet another "love it or hate it"
why it was done in the first place made sense any more since snippets
of code are given with the errors. So I removed the override. I'll
note, as David said on w-v today, that all this would indeed be easier
if we could record users' preferences.
Good point.
Yes.
olivier
The changes in content look mostly good to me. I've fixed some bugs
XHTML 1.0 Strict (== no "name" attribute for those elements). There are
quite a few places in the docs and the script output where this breakage
occurs ATM.
The above must definitely be fixed before releasing IMO.
Yeah, it's fairly simple, usually just changing the version numbers and
URLs that point to the tarballs is enough.
The only new thing that needs attention now is that a relative URL is
used to point to /source/, instead of the old "hardcoding" of
v.w.o/source/. That's not a good thing for local installations, for
example the tarball links will definitely be broken in those.
I'll work around this in the spec now, and will make an educated guess
where the validator tarballs will be available for download when they
are... (hint, hint :)
I've fixed some bugs here and there
Thanks. I realize I really shouldn't code like I did, especially when
so tired :)
Oops. That's right. Bulk fixed, and I went through most of the
documents and output and validated it. Looks good, but still
cross-checking.
Should not be a problem if the actual links to the tarballs are
absolute and pointing to v.w.o, right? I changed the ones I had
forgotten.
... or the other way around. I'll name them after what you named them
(and the naming scheme is pretty straightforward) :)
olivier
Sort of. But the (local) source, installation etc. docs and the actual
online tarballs may easily get out of sync, trivially so if the links
point to the unversioned validator.tar.gz and sgml-lib.tar.gz. And if
they point to the versioned ones there is one more easily forgotten
place to keep up to date in the docs at release times.
I (still) do not include anything from under /source/ in the RPMs, but
point to v.w.o/source/ instead. A bit ugly, but should always work.
