I agree to flatening the priority except for A.13:
Use interim accessibility solutions so that assistive
technologies and older browsers will operate correctly.
This is too constraining and only concern legacy user-agents.
Lynx is my bottom-line criteria: if Lynx supports it, then it's OK to
author it. So default place-holder, vertical bar between link, etc,
are not necessary in my opinion.
I disagree a little bit. There is no particular reason why Lynx, and not a
speech-based system such as w3+emacspeak, or pwWebSpeak, or Jaws, should
be the bottom line. The bottom line is Universal access, and there are
things which Lynx deals with well but which cause accesibiliy problems for
other browsers. The readable non-link characters as seprators is a case
in point. They may only be a p2 in themselves, but the principle that we
should support older browsers is linked to our support for groups whose
access is restricteed by technological, including socio-economic,
difficulties. Certainly rural Australian communities are in that
situation regardless of their personal physical (dis)abilities. They can
have the best machines and latest software there is, but on a phone line
that is struggling to keep a 9600 baud connection going for ten minutes
it is a big help to be able to use the trimmed-down minimal features of a
page for basic access. These are as interpreted by Explorer, or Netscape,
rather than Lynx. A website which is accessible to legacy browsers is
accessible to newer ones (So long as the process has been to design using
technologies which degrade for legacy systems, rather than taking
advantage of particular quirks in legacy browsers)
It is clear what this concerns, but it is not very clear who it concerns
- frames also only concer some brosers out there, yet we require (with
good reason) that they are written for accessibility to cater for all the
browsers which don't. That's covered (apart from in the specifics) by
guideline A.13 which may be constraiing in its priciples, but which in
practice sums up a fair number of the guidelines which we regard as P1.
It is also a good design principle to ensure universal accessibility.
Charles McCathieNevile
I didn't say Lynx should be the bottom line, I say it was my bottom
line.
