Hi everyone. I'm a (Mandrake) linux newbie, and I can't figure out how
to install tidy. I downloaded the source and tried to compile Makefile
with gcc, but got errors. I also tried the binary, but it says "cannot
execute binary file". I know I'm probably way off, but I'm not sure
what to do. Can anyone point me in the right direction, or is there
already a set of instructions somewhere? Thanks for your help.
-Ellery
I don't think anyone is actively supporting a port of Tidy to Mandrake, at
least according to the following link for Linux distributions of Tidy :
And since I am not a Mandrake user, I will have some difficulty helping you.
Specifically what version (date) of the source code did you download (from
where), and what sort of errors did you get? Chances are, the errors could
be fixed quite simply, since the code is quite portable (and appears to be
maintained for some Linux distributions).
And when you say binary, again what version, what platform was it compiled
for, and where did you download it from?
I'm sure if there are any Mandrake users out there, they will speak up.
Regards, Terry Teague
I downloaded the latest source code from the official tidy page (I believe it
was June 7 or 9). When I get it, I just dont know what to do. There is a
Makefile. Can I use this somehow? Can someone give me step-by step
instructions or tell me if they already exist? like:
1. ./Makefile
2. gcc tidy.c
3. make install
4. tidy
NOTE these are not even close to how to install.
I dont think that there's any problem with my configuration, just that I dont
know what I'm doing. I've found that most source distros have an INSTALL file
with simple instructions to install the program, so I'm without a clue when
there's no step-by-step instructions. I think practically everyone here has
more experience with *nix than me, so you'll probably (hopefully) be able to
figure this one out.
Hi Ellery,
"make install" should copy the binary file to /usr/local/bin. You can
change the location by updating INSTALLDIR in the Makefile. It will also
update the permissions to give group and world read/execute privs and
change the group and owner to "bin". Have a look at the "install" make
target for details.
Have you got the build working yet? Also, for x86, you may be able to use
one of the other Linux binaries directly - or am I showing my Linux
ignorance?
take it easy,
Charlie
While it isn't explicitly stated on the web site, these beta releases are
primarily for people who know what they are doing grin . A real release in
the future will likely to have some kind of "INSTALL" file.
But Charlie basically has it correct. I don't use the Makefile much on my
platform, but when I do, I typically just do a build of Tidy, and don't
even bother installing it.
e.g.
make tidy
I don't expect there should be any issues on your platform, but if you need
to override settings in the Makefile, you can probably do so in the
standard way.
e.g.
make tidy CC=cc
And as Charlie says, a Linux_x86 pre-built binary may just work out of the box.
Regards, Terry
