Conference
Creating Accessible Documents: A Live, Interactive, Online Web Conference
Presenter: Sean Keegan from the High Tech Center Training Unit of the
California Community Colleges and sponsored by EASI (Equal Access to
Software and Information) Thursday December 11 at 1 PM Eastern, part of
EASI's tuition-based Web Clinic series. Tuition is $39 or you or your
college can become annual subscription members: http://easi.cc/clinic.htm
When you create PDF documents, do you know whether they are unstructured
documents, structured or tagged documents? Did you know that in Australia
the human rights legislation flatly states that PDF does not meet its
accessibility requirements and that an HTML versions must always be
provided to guarantee accessibility? What are the accessibility problems
of PDF documents? What has Adobe done to try to solve those problems?
What can you do yourself to create PDF documents that can best approach
accessibility?
This 60-minute voice-based Web conference can only scratch the top of the
topic. Our target audiences are faculty, course designers, librarians and
others using PDF as a simple and fast way to take course content and
prepare it for the Web. PDF does also provide the possibility of creating
highly complex documents with many interactive Web features. This
introduction will not probe deeply into those more highly technical,
advanced features. But, if you are creating relatively simple PDF and want
to make those documents reasonably accessible for students with
disabilities, this hour-long introduction will get you started.
EASI is using the Ivocalize voice Web Chat room which permits the
participants to listen to the presenter and lets the presenter push Web
pages to the audience providing support for his talk. The presenter can
pause and take questions from the participants who use the mic to interact.
While there is also a text window, these EASI presentations reserve that
text window to provide streaming text transcriptions of what the speaker
says. The event is recorded and provided online for the participants to go
back over the presentation to pick up anything that was missed.
What hardware/software is required?
1 Windows operating system
2 Explorer version 6
3 a sound card and speakers
4 if you want to ask questions, a functioning mic.
When is this event?
Thursday, December 11, 2003
1 PM Eastern
Noon Central
11 AM Mountain
10 am Pacific
How do you Actually access this event?
You must register in advance to guarantee a seat in the chat room
You can register at the registration link for the PDF presentation at
Those registering will receive details on logging in to the event a couple
days in advance.
EASI's month-long courses for December are:
Beginner Barrier-free Web Design
Advanced Barrier-free Web Design
Learning Disabilities and Accessible Information Technology
EASI has taught these online courses for more than a decade to over 4,000
people in some 3 dozen countries. We simplify the know-how about creating
accessible information technology so that you can focus better on designing
creative course content.
EASI's December, month-long online courses:
Beginner Barrier-free Web Design: http://easi.cc/workshops/easiweb.htm
:Barrier-free Information Technology: http://easi.cc/workshops/adaptit.htm
Learning Disabilities and Accessible IT: http://easi.cc/workshops/ld.htm
(a package of five courses will earn the Certificate in Accessible
Information Technology)
Norman Coombs, Ph.D.
CEO EASI (Equal Access to Software and Information)
22196 Caminito Tasquillo
Laguna Hills CA 92653
home: (949) 855-4852
Cell: (949) 922-5992
E-mail: nrcgsh@rit.edu
Oh, the irony! LOL
--Julian
indeed. If they are going to deliver a course on this topic, they should
deliver it in accessible form.
SPECIFIC] Online Web Conference
Oh, the irony! LOL
--Julian
