We have containers that have ordered selectors, ie the ordering is
built into the very syntax of the selectors. So the containers
simply *are* ordered in any RDF interpretation, whether we want to
treat that order as significant or not. So we cannot make rdf:bags
into unordered entities in the RDF model theory.
That would work for me.
If this is acceptable then it is trivial to add rdf:seq and rdf:bag
to the MT. I've already written the relevant section. (Adding
rdf:Alt to the MT is something else altogether: I would suggest
that we simply abandon rdf:Alt.)
Could we pull a similar stunt with Alt as with Bag. An Alt is
simply bag with a hint that applications might consider the first
element as different from the others, i.e. the model theory ignores
the semantics of Alt.
Oh well, sure, if we ignore the semantics then we can do anything.
The problem with Alt is that if you follow the, er, hint, then your
conclusions actually *contradict* valid RDF conclusions, ie in this
sense Alt is nonmonotonic.
Pat
IHMC(850)434 8903 home
40 South Alcaniz St.(850)202 4416 office
phayes@ai.uwf.edu
Are you suggesting that we pull it entirely? That will break anything
that's used it. Saying its meaningless, is wimpier, but safer.
Brian
Yes.
That will break anything that's used it.
Right. Well, it will make it nonconformant, at any rate.
Well, its not clear that it is safer in the long run. After all, the
actual CODE will still work, right? But we will be clear that it
isn't conformant. Lack of that clarity is itself dangerous, I would
suggest.
IHMC(850)434 8903 home
40 South Alcaniz St.(850)202 4416 office
phayes@ai.uwf.edu
We are talking about rdf:Alt here:
That will break anything that's used it.
It seems clear to me. Experiemental explanatory text:
A resource of type rdf:Alt is an ordered collection. A collection may be
given the type rdf:Alt, as opposed to rdf:Bag or rdf:Seq, as a hint to the
reader that typical processing by an application will be to select one
member of the collection for processing. For example, a schema designer
might use rdf:Alt to represent the collection of mirror sites from which a
file may be downloaded. In all respects, other than this hint, a resource
of type rdf:Alt is just like an rdf:Seq.
Brian
Sounds good to me.
Patrick
That will break anything that's used it.
I'm happy with that. Final sentence might be rephrased along the lines:
RDF however supports no formal entailments that reflect such hints,
and considers rdf:Alt to be simply a class of ordered containers.
Pat
IHMC(850)434 8903 home
40 South Alcaniz St.(850)202 4416 office
phayes@ai.uwf.edu
