At http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/2004/02/xhtml-rdf.html is a discussion document
about XHTML and RDF from the HTML working group.
The aim is to be able to generate RDF triples from XHTML, be GRDDL
compatible, allow XHTML documents to validate, and offer authors the ability
to add semantic information to their documents without the need for HTML to
be continually extended with new semantic elements such as person or
number etc.
Comments welcome.
Best wishes,
Steven Pemberton
For the W3C HTML Working Group
I've had a read through and I like the approach; I recall this being
outlined last year. It is analgous to the rdf/xml style of a 'frame' of
properties about a single subject. Here the meta stands for
the frame of subjects about the doc, and the inner meta are
the properties.
So where I had this example in the RDF/XML syntax doc:
It would become (if embedded in http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-syntax-grammar):
(I assume an implicit 'about this document' applies)
I could probably translate more of those examples into this form.
meta inside a meta always implies a blank node in between, never
one with a URI, correct?
Looking at the above, using both rel and property attributes with
qname attributes values on the link and meta elements respectively
does not look like it'll be something people will remember.
Dave
* Steven Pemberton steven.pemberton@cwi.nl [2004-02-25 15:39+0100]
Interesting work. I think it does compliment GRDDL. My reading of this
is that it, in effect, consists of a proposal for an alternate XML
encoding for RDF graphs (or perhaps, for some subset of RDF graphs).
This syntax is motivated by issues from the RDF-in-XHTML world, but the
encoding could presumably be used in other contexts. The main features
of the syntax are (i) XML regularity: elements/attributes are
predicatable in advance; terms from misc RDF vocabs appear only as
content; (ii) extreme simplicity of parsing vs perceived expense of full
RDF.
Is that a fair characterisation of what you're trying to do here?
re subset, I guess this syntax doesn't deal with bNode-heavy graphs that
have loops in, and I don't think (from quick skim) it handles RDF
datatyping. Is the intention to offer a complete encoding for arbitrary
RDF graphs or just capture a commonly useful subset?
Dan
