Dear All, we are currently doing some preliminary research into ways in
which we can market SWAD Europe.
We are considering having some sort of SWAD-E gadget or toy to give out
to people and although we have a few ideas in mind we would welcome any
suggestions from yourselves.
You may have attended a conference or workshop where you were given or
saw a piece of promotional material that interested you, if so I'd like
to know.
Please email this list if you have any ideas or suggestions.
Thank you
Caroline
Caroline V Meek
Personnel and Admin Coordinator
Institute for Learning and Research Technology
University of Bristol
8-10 Berkeley Square
Bristol
BS8 1HH
Caroline.Meek@bristol.ac.uk
www.ilrt.bris.ac.uk
I rather like these:
and I've got one of those light-up hi-bounce balls - some company had
them at xml europe 2001 (but mine's from Hawaii sea-world)
I also got a rather nice neuweb blue curcular enamel badge from IST2002
Libby
Yo-yos - they have a node and an arc built in. (I would say plastic
bows and arrows, but that would be puerile).
A thousand flowers. When was the last time you got a decent flower at a
techno-geek thing? (not plastic ones; real ones. You need to explain what it
is about, but they are memorable)
chaals
Before I read this, I was thinking of something that could also illustrate
the utility of RDF.
I think this tangle toy probably has a number of topological states that:
(a) could be identified using URIs
(b) their relationships could be described using RDF, e.g. in terms of
loop-twists or some suchlike maneouvre
(c) sequences of operations to change from one state to another might be
derived using a standard RDF tool like cwm or Euler.
Do we have a mathematician of sufficient skill to work out the details?
Another thought I had along similar lines was one of those tile puzzles,
where you "move the hole around" to obtain some well-ordered arrangement of
tiles. (e.g. the RDF-logo?) Again, linked to RDF descriptions of the
states and solvable using standard off-the-shelf (or off-the-web) RDF tools.
#g
Graham Klyne
They do look fun.
A very good idea. Just prior to Rubik cubes hitting the big time I got one
through a small ad somewhere (back of New Scientist?), along with an
explanatory booklet. The booklet was more like an academic paper, delving
pretty deeply into group theory. I struggled through the booklet, learning
stuff I'd have dismissed as just too difficult/dull if it hadn't been for
the wonderful cube.
Anyone done RDF for finite state machines??
I did see a lovely toy the other day, actually nodes &amp; arcs. The arcs were
bar magnets covered in coloured plastic, the nodes ball bearings.
Unfortunately they were about ?10 for half a dozen of each.
The only thing I can think of to suggest is e-SW angle grinders.
(Coincidentally, there some work I need to do on some concrete ledges in our
cellar). Cementic Web, anyone?
Cheers,
Danny.
