hello,
new draft: http://www.w3.org/WAI/ER/IG/ert/ert-20000307.html
as always, the latest is available from http://www.w3.org/WAI/ER/IG/ert/
There are lots of @@'s since Len noted some changes he made. There were
also several open issues from before. Please focus on commenting on those
items.
Also note that I added two levels of table of contents. I have not yet
added the "next section" and "previous section" buttons. the to do list
has all of the to do's but this one.
I think we ought to give this a very thorough read to make sure that
nothing has been broken by our edits.
Please keep in mind as you are reviewing the document with the goal of
sending it to AU, WCAG, and IG next week.
Thanks.
I look forward to your comments,
--wendy
wendy a chisholm
world wide web consortium
web accessibility initiative
madison, wi usa
Should we delete the following two checks?
1.The first header element in the document must be H1
2.There must be only one H1 element in the document
One reason for these checks is that H1, etc. are still sometimes misused
for formatting and finding that out might be facilitated by performing
this check.
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
It would be worth looking at the way that preparation of ISO HTML is
defined. That enforces strict nesting of header levels. (But I don't have a
reference handy :-(
Charles McCN
Should we delete the following two checks?
1.The first header element in the document must be H1
2.There must be only one H1 element in the document
One reason for these checks is that H1, etc. are still sometimes misused
for formatting and finding that out might be facilitated by performing
this check.
Love.
ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE
W3C Web Accessibility Initiative http://www.w3.org/WAI
Location: I-cubed, 110 Victoria Street, Carlton VIC 3053
Postal: GPO Box 2476V, Melbourne 3001, Australia
Yet another new draft of the ERT:
I've made quite a few changes including:
- messages are now called 'Suggested messages'
- repairs (additional actions) are now called 'Suggested repairs'
- definitions of valid attributes are called 'Valid X attribute'
- requirements now describe what is required in the document
- added several comments with @@CR
- added "note: 'd-link' now deprecated"
- 1.1.11 NOSCRIPT must occur after the SCRIPT /SCRIPT not between.
NOSCRIPT section can contain valid HTML but not another SCRIPT /SCRIPT .
- 1.1.13 described algorithm for finding ASCII art
- 4.2.1 modified algorithm for acronym/abbreviation detection
- 5.5.2 Table Captions - removed (not required by WCAG)
- 9.4.1 We now require that objects must have TABINDEX attribute
Should we remove the 'discussion status' sections? Every guideline is now
under discussion.
I question whether we should check other linked documents as Len suggests
(technique 1.1.9). For example, if an image has a LONGDESC link then we have
to assume that the LONGDESC file is OK. The LONGDESC file may not be created
yet. After all, the user is checking this file, not yet the other files.
If we see that there is a linked file then we can ask if the user want's
that one checked too. Make sense?
I've made changes down to "@@CR - got to here"
Chris
excellent.
i added this per WCAG discussion. I will add this back in.
in my edits I removed all of the discussion status sections except for
those that had outstanding issues. therefore, only a handful are "under
discussion." as discussed in a recent telecon, we are keeping the open
issues inline in the document rather than having a separate open issues
document. discussion status may not be the best title. perhps we ought to
say, "open issues with this technique."
is this an issue that we need to resolve before sending this to AU, WCAG,
and IG?
I am concerned with how many @@'s we have in the document. I would like to
get rid of as many of these as possible before we send it to IG, AU,
WCAG. I think it is fine to leave those that mark significant open issues,
but there are a couple places where it seems there is a mini dialog between
Len and Chris! grin
--wendy
wendy a chisholm
world wide web consortium
web accessibility initiative
madison, wi usa
