Hi
I don't know if it is just a problem or a bug.
Running amaya 8.5 (xp variant) on M$Windows2000. A document (forced to type
html4 transitional) that ends in a table as the last element.
How to create a new paragraph (or any other element) after the table?
In the past, I expect repeated ctrl-return should finally get me there.
However, it now just creates new paragraphs in the last cell.
CBee
Hello,
To add something after a table, select the whole table (using F2 key on
Windows) then press the Enter key. A new paragraph is created after the table.
You can find more details in the Help Tables 'Working with Tables' section.
Thanks
Laurent Carcone
This is a bit counter intuitive - I would expect this to replace the table
with an empty paragraph, whereas I expect to be able to do it by going to the
end of the table and repeating return enough.
cheers
Chaals
Post: 21 Mitchell street, FOOTSCRAY Vic 3011, Australia or
W3C, 2004 Route des Lucioles, 06902 Sophia Antipolis Cedex, France
On Thu, 20 May 2004 15:00:50 -0400 (EDT)
I don't think a user expects to lost the table when this table is selected and
he hits the Enter key.
whereas I expect to be able to do it by going to the
We did that in previous versions of Amaya but it didn't allow one to keep an empty
cell.
The standard behavior of the Enter key is to generate a new element of the current selected
element type.
By example, if you select a H2 the Enter key generates a new H2 after.
When a cell is selected the Enter key generates a new cell.
There are two exceptions: it generates a paragraph when a pre or a table is selected.
The shortcut Shift + Enter (XHTML Paragraph) will replace a selected H2 by a paragraph.
Regards
Irene.
Ir?ne Vatton INRIA Rh?ne-Alpes
INRIA ZIRST
e-mail: Irene.Vatton@inria.fr 655 avenue de l'Europe
This is standard behaviour in almost every application I use. I was
surprised when it didn't happen, and I think other users would be too
unless they don't ever use word processors.
Hmm. Thinking about this a bit mre seems a good idea. I can see that this
is not an intuitive user interface convention, but without having a better
idea to propose I don't suppose that helps much :-)
Cheers
Chaals
