Developing my first site using tables for page layout
On my knees, I beg you,
with tears in my eyes, I *implore* you,
PLEASE don't do that!
Your layout will work just fine in *your* browser on *your* screen;
it's a pretty safe bet that it will not work in *my* browser on your
screen, or in your browser on my machine.
You can specify the width of a table, column group, or column
in two ways, both of which are wrong.
nn (pixels)
The trouble is that
(a) The number of pixels per unit length varies from screen to
screen. I have two machines on my desk both of which have
about 89 pixels per inch. On a colleague's Windows box, images
are nearly twice as large. If you use pixels, you are measuring
with a rubber ruler.
(b) Different people like to have their browser windows at
different sizes. If the number of pixels you specify is less
than the size they have chosen, you'll be wasting screen real-
estate, which is not really excusable in a web page. If the
number of pixels you specify is more than the size they have
chosen, information will be lost off the edge of the window;
with a bit of bad luck your hapless viewers will never even
know it was there. That is very bad manners indeed.
(c) What fits on a screen may not (in fact probably WILL not)
fit on a printed page. I am heartily FED UP with documents
where the last two or three words per line are lost from the
printed page. If the information you are presenting is worth
having, it is worth printing, and fixed width tables (unless
the width is rather narrower than you think) don't print worth
a tinker's curse.
(d) You have no idea what fonts your viewers will have available.
In particular, you have no idea what size they will be. Even if
someone has fonts with the same names as the fonts you expect,
and the same "point" size, you should be aware that the number of
screen pixels per character point varies and is not known to you.
Let's put some numbers behind this:
Width chosen to be 72 characters
at 6 characters per inch in your chosen font/size
= 12 inches
Screen has 72 pixels per inch,
so set width to be 864 pixels.
(Ignore the fact that one of my machines has a screen that is
A4 size/shape, so that much width simply isn't physically available,
and that I can only print on A4 paper.)
Now let a viewer have a font which is also 6 characters per
inch for his display, but he has 89 pixels per inch.
864/89 = 9.7 inches = 58 characters.
OOPS! Now your text doesn't fit into the width you specified.
This is not rare. This is not exceptional. This is *COMMON*.
And of course the numbers can go the other way. The point is
that after all your careful layout, what your viewer sees will
probably be less like what you see than you can imagine.
pp% (percent of available width)
This is much better. It solves the wasted screen real-estate
and text-lost-off-the-right-margine problems. However,
(a) You have no idea what the available width is, so you are
still measuring with a rubber ruler.
(b) is fixed, but there is a related problem. 10% of the width
you like, with your fonts, on your screen, may be enough to be
useful. 10% of the width your viewer has, with her fonts, on
her screen, may be very little.
(c) is fixed
(d) Font availability and resolution still vary all over the
place, so you have very little idea where the line breaks will be.
Note for example that I tell any browser that will listen
"do not let font sizes go below 12 points".
Now what is the point of trying to control your layout using tables?
Surely it is to control your layout.
But I have now explained that you can *not* control your layout the way
you expect to; people with the same browser, screen, and tastes as you
will see what you see, but most viewers will *not* see what you see.
Don't forget, some people browse the web using Lynx, and some people
browse the web using Emacs. And some people use audio browsers.
By far the best approach is to control layout using CSS.
That will mean that browsers that are not CSS-aware can just display
the text legibly, while browsers that _are_ CSS-aware can do a much
better job of controlling layout (you can specify absolute sizes in
inches or millimetres, and you can specify relative sizes in terms of
the size of the font the viewer is seeing, amongst other benefits)
than tables can ever possibly do.
All works fine in IE 5 but in Navigator 4.75 it's a disaster !
There are plenty of people still using Netscape 1 and 2!
There are also people using IE 4, Opera, ICab, Lynx, Emacs, and Amaya.
I've read that Netscapes' implementation of CSS is patchy to say the least
What you should have read is that Netscape 6 has recently been released.
Examples of what's going wrong include:
-correct rendering of cell bg colours
That is *going* to happen anyway. Don't forget, some browsers cannot
display colour, some can display colour but not the colours you want,
some can display the colours you want but have been told by your viewers
not to. For example, my browsers have been told very definitely *not*
to use any colours other than black and white, because I am fed up with
idiots who think that yellow on white is cool.
The single most important thing to understand in Web design is that it
is not desk-top publishing and *cannot* by the nature of the medium give
you the level of control you want.
-incorrect cell dimensions
Even CSS cannot fix this. "Correct" dimensions might be "exactly the
physical size I mean" or "holding exactly the amount of text I mean".
Neither of them might even be possible.
Have you tried your pages in an audio browser?
The web design books I've studied all say pretty much the same thing:
if you really need control of positioning, use PDF.
Hello Richard,
Ha ha! I sympathise with your viewpoint, as I, too, have found that the
various combinations of different platform and browser give different
results. The trouble is, tables do more or less exactly the sort of
layout that I often want. And we are still sufferring from HTML having
been pathetic in its early incarnations in terms of layout. You say that
HTML isn't DTP - so it would appear, but I think that that is what we
really want, so we still have to resort to tricks to get the lumbering
old HTML to produce the required layout. It does seem a huge shame that
the manufacturers can't get together and agree on some standards - screen
dots-per-inch for example. However, that wouldn't cope with your other
well explained problems of variable width windows or paper sizes, I quite
agree.
That said, I would love to "do it properly" - but don't know how. I am
slowly converting to CSS, and TIDY has been a huge help in that respect
by automatically converting some of my inline FONT tags and so on. Do
you have any recommendations on how to emulate the layout functions
otherwise provided by tables, but with CSS? Or perhaps you know of a
good web site that talks about it with some easy examples?
Many thanks,
Peter
PS You suggested using a 1 pixel transparent GIF to force Netscape to
colour the background of a cell - I use an "nbsp", as this saves the HTTP
overhead of yet another file to download, and still renders correctly if
the user has images turned off.
Work: Peter_Vince@yahoo.co.uk
Home: Barney.Wol@noctua.demon.co.uk
Web: http://www.noctua.demon.co.uk/
PGP id = 0x332B72C0
PGP fp: 3535 9AD9 C0EA 3606 0DE4 3811 422E 10B4 332B 72C0
Do You Yahoo!?
Get your free @yahoo.co.uk address at http://mail.yahoo.co.uk
or your free @yahoo.ie address at http://mail.yahoo.ie
Thank you, Richard, THANK YOU!
I printed out your message, marked the most significant parts and
distributed it amongst my colleagues.
Chances are that they will ignore it (though paper is not as easy to ignore
as email, that's why I printed it out) - but at least I tried...
I myself abuse tables for layout (I grew up with it, I started using the
internet in late 1995, when Netscape had just introduced tables as
proprietary extension to HTML), but I try hard to get rid of it. And I try
talking my colleagues into it, but it's a long way to go.
The main problem that I see is that pages are designed by graphics
designers (in photoshop), and not by people who understand what HTML is all
about. And this is also what the customers expect.
Now does anybody have a satisfying solution for this? I doubt it...
I will keep on forwarding your messages though, Richard, if there are more
to come of this kind... thanks again!
sebastian
[snip]
Cyperfection - agentur fuer neue medien GmbH
Sebastian Lange
Karl-Kraemer-Str. 4
D-67061 Ludwigshafen
fon: +49 6 21 58 71 04-0
Anfahrt - http://www.cyperfection.de/Anfahrt/
I agree pretty much with everything that Peter wrote in reply to Richard's
nice email. Regarding the &amp;nbsp; entity in order to have table cells
rendered in Netscape:
This of course causes trouble if the desired cell height is less than line
height (so in that case, you'd have to go back to the 1px transparent GIF),
however, if the line height problem is not an issue, I'd rather use BR
than &amp;nbsp;, because BR has the same effect without rendering this stupid
lone space on the page when you "select all" text (CTRL-A/APPLE-A) on the page.
sebastian
