In-reply-to: Your message of Tue, 31 Mar 1998 12:36:21 -0500."
where can i get 1.2a? i tried to go to www.w3.org and the amaya dirs are
offlimits or something. i get a page which says i can't go there. i got
the source a few weeks ago there so what has happened? is there another
public site for amaya?
The connection to W3C site was corrupted yesterday for everybody.
I think all is ok now and you can download the 1.2a Amaya version now.
IV Not poor, very complex. We need subdir "obj" to allow us to build
IV different versions of Amaya (with/without plugins, with/without
IV java support, with/without MathML, etc.) and Thot applications for
IV different platforms in the same hierarchy.
i understand variant building, but it could be done at the top level and
the Makefile could make the needed subdirs. that is my objection, having
to make the correct subdir and not having it documented. you yourself
said it should be added to the docs. i say it should be automated.
Options and Makefiles are generated according to the current target
architecture and current configure options. We need different subdirs to
store these files and to collect *.o, libraries and binaries.
I guess it's a good idea to collect all these generated files in the
same hierarchie.
We decided also to let user defines the target name he wants because it
is difficult to automatically generate a name aoccrding to the platform
and the cofigure options.
Asking the user to create subdir "obj" solves many problems and doesn't
complicate too much his life.
If sources are well downloaded and installed, all the rest is automatic.
IV True, "../thotlib" must exist. Amaya cannot be built if the
IV thotlib is not built. Are you sure, you successfully downloaded
IV Amaya source files and you started "make all" after "../configure"
IV and before "make install". Each time we deliver a new release, I
IV experiment that the Amaya building from source tar file works
IV fine. Something is wrong in your machine. I can try to help you
IV if you send me more information.
thotlib was built. but the makefile did a cd too deep and ../thotlib was
above that by one level. i hacked a symlink to make ../thotlib appear in
the right dir and some more installation occured. but the binaries
(amaya and some support utils) never got installed.
I don't agree with you. If you need to create a link there was something
wrong in the previous step.
what more info can i send?
do i need to install any other binaries but amaya? most of the others
(str, tra, etc) seem to be for building amaya and not running it.
Yes, you're right. The current install supposes that you want to extend
the Amaya application. It's why libraries, str, tra, app, prs are also
installed. We should define a mini-install. Only amaya and print are
necessary in many cases.
also i have found very few man pages or docs in the distribution. i also
saw those on the w3 site but i can't get to them (same as above).
The site should be accesible now, but I agree documentation is too poor.
merci, (the result of 3 years of high school french, over 25 years ago!)
Amities
Irene.
IV The connection to W3C site was corrupted yesterday for everybody.
IV I think all is ok now and you can download the 1.2a Amaya version
IV now.
i am glad it wasn't just me they were blocking out! is 1.2a worth
getting over the 1.2 i have?
IV Not poor, very complex. We need subdir "obj" to allow us to build
IV different versions of Amaya (with/without plugins, with/without
IV java support, with/without MathML, etc.) and Thot applications for
IV different platforms in the same hierarchy.
i understand the variants, but why can't the makefile make the subdir
obj for you? it isn't hard for me to do (i do know the mkdir command :-)
but it is a trivial step that i didn't know about and i think it should
be automated in the built system.
IV Options and Makefiles are generated according to the current
IV target architecture and current configure options. We need
IV different subdirs to store these files and to collect *.o,
IV libraries and binaries. I guess it's a good idea to collect all
IV these generated files in the same hierarchie. We decided also to
IV let user defines the target name he wants because it is difficult
IV to automatically generate a name aoccrding to the platform and the
IV cofigure options. Asking the user to create subdir "obj" solves
IV many problems and doesn't complicate too much his life. If
IV sources are well downloaded and installed, all the rest is
IV automatic.
i haven't explored building amaya with variants. i have created major
variant makefile systems so i know the problems.
are you saying the obj subdir is my own name for my variant? so if i
wanted to configure/build another variant i would mkdir foo, cd there,
run ../configure with different options, etc? that make some more sense
but as we have agreed it is woefully undocumented. a simple INSTALL file
should be made stating this and put in the top dir of the
distribution. this is very critical i think for as more people build it,
this flaw will surface again. we generally expect an INSTALL/README file
to tell us how to build the basic system. and when i see configure, i
don't expect to do any unsusual things like this without an INSTALL file
in the source tree.
IV I don't agree with you. If you need to create a link there was
IV something wrong in the previous step.
i will do a fresh extract and build (probably with 1.2a when i get
it). i will make a subdir obj, cd there and run ../configure. then i
will run make all from obj. i will let you know the results.
IV prs are also installed. We should define a mini-install. Only
IV amaya and print are necessary in many cases.
good idea. for us users/testers who want to install the binaries (and
whatever support files/libraries are needed) a proper make install
should be available. you should have make install do the regular install
(amaya and print) and make install-{all,dev} do the developers install
(all the binaries).
IV The site should be accesible now, but I agree documentation is too
IV poor.
let's make it richer! as a major test platform and useful utility, the
docs are as important as the source!
uri
Uri Guttman ----------------- SYStems ARCHitecture and Software Engineering
Perl Hacker for Hire ---- 8 Years of Perl Experience, Available Immediately
uri@sysarch.com --------- Resume and Perl Example at http://www.sysarch.com
Use the Best Search Engine on the Net -------- http://www.northernlight.com
In-reply-to: Your message of Wed, 01 Apr 1998 10:33:27 -0500."
Right !
For us it was evident that you can build different binaries and install only
one. Don't forget that Amaya is an experimental tool. We are often adding
new extensions but some of them are not public available.
I'll do that for the next release.
Yes but you know that better documentation is done by users than by developers.
We're open to any suggestion to make it better.
Regards
Irene.
