hello im realtivly new to overclocking and i wont go anywhere near my cpu.however my gpu is probally alot easier.i currently have 1 ati saphire radeon x1600 pro pci-e as my video card.i am not by any means new to computers if you say it i'll more than likely understand it.as for my full computer specs they are as follows: intel d975xbx chipset/motherboard intel pentium d 950 @ 3.4ghz 800mhz fsb 2 gb ddr2 533mhz ram 3x250gb sata hdd 500w power supply if you need any other info i will try to obtain it for you. thanks
i not sure but some cards are made for/can be overclocked by design. if that is the case you may find a software download from ati that will do your card. good luck.
the catalyst control center has a feature called overdirve, i've played around with it and havn't really got any performance boost.also when i do use overdrive it says requested clocks peed and current clock speed, the requested shows what i entered and current shows well current clock speed.my post was actually more asking how far i could go not if i could do it.thanks anyway. by the way i also tried ati tool.
the speed shown times .o5. example speed 100 x .05 = 105 is new speed. run a high gpu usage software program (game). watch for video breakdown, strange dots or artifacts appearing on screen during game play. if no problems occur try another 5% step. do until you get problems then back off a step. just keep in mind that more speed means more heat to dissipate and power usage. the way i look at it is when over-clocking you are slowly taking a component to higher rate of operation than its specs at point of sale. you are betting that the component is better than the specs it was rated for by the manufacturer. sometimes you win and sometimes, you get the idea.
thanks i'll try that after but what program do u suggest i use?also about the heat dissipation i have a fairly large full tower aluminum case and its in the &quot;dungeon&quot; as we refer to our basement as the temperature is so low even with heating
whats too much? is there any &quot;guidelines&quot; as to what is &quot;safe&quot; and what is not?what i'm asking is how high of a temperature can i hit before i have to implement more cooling? can i det the clock too high? i currently have the clock set at 570.38mhz and memory @418.5mhz and nothing negative has happened?the tempoerature is currently at 44c with the fan speed on the card at 70% (i modified the fan speed as well just to be safe).
if the card is still under warranty stick with ati's overclock programs. see if documentation states if you overclock the warranty is still good. i would think that with all ati's knowledge that if they release overclock tools/program you should be all right. if the programs from ati don't seems to make it happen than go looking, but if you have a warranty still in effect stay with ati programs and drivers.
using an ati program to try to over clock can be the best way to go beacause this way you dont have to worry about the card over heating because the card will shut down when it gets to hot if you really want to over colck the gpu try updrading the cooling with a new fan or a water cooler if you know how to install it
hi, what is too much? graphical anomalies - when they show up (missing textures and that feeling of - oh dear, it's going to crash!) that is when you've pushed too far. this 'too much' limit is going to be different for every single card. that means every single factory made ati 1600pro 512mb ddr2 agp like mine is uniquely different regarding overclocking. one 1600pro will fail at default clock speed + 60mhz while another won't. also to correct an earlier post - ati (along with nvidia) do not provide their own overclocking tools. just because a mate has downloaded an utility called ati tools don't mean it came from ati. either you get a 3d card overclocked at factory level or you void the warranty and do it yourself by using a free 3rd party program like ati tools or rivatuner if you have nvidia. for some good advice try guru3.com btw - your cellar is the reason for your ability to overclock due to the low temperature. and why do you own a high end pc with a mid range card?
thank you.the reason i own such a high end system with a mid range video card is cause i just bought the computer and upgraded the vid card a bit when i bought it as it origionally came with the x300se and im a casual gamer so i dont need too much also i was waiting for direct x 10 so i didnt want to break the bank twice in a 4 month period
