ok, so i have a hp with vista home premium, and i'm trying to record a bunch of lp's to digital. the desktop has 2 l/r composite audio jacks(one in the front, one in the back). i have searched everywhere trying to find out how to record through the composite jacks, but everything says to get an adapter and record through the 3.5mm jack. but i don't really want to buy an adapter when there are already 2 composite jacks on the computer. i don't know why they're on the computer if they don't have a purpose. does anyone know how to access these ports for recording?
all you need is 1 cable. cable... if you are using a stereo receiver... you will need a 'y' cable the 'v' part is 2 rca male and the other end is a cable looking like your stereo headphone for your portable cd player. note that there are 2 line on the lower part of this plug the 2 lines means stereo, 1 line means mono. you want stereo. check your record player and see what the output or audio out jack looks like. how to plug in the cable... on the stereo receiver or record player plug (usually it is a rca jack) the cable into audio out left and right of the player. left stands for left speaker , right stands for right speaker. the other end usually a 1 pin (looks like your portable stereo headphone jack) stereo male cable note the 2 line on the tip of the pin the 2 line stands for stereo (please correct me if i am wrong). next you will need software that can help you do the sound transfer. this will be real time so patience is a must. 1st do a little test , test a few seconds of recording then play it back if all ok then do the whole song. or unless you just bought a turn table with usb plug. this is a new technology that can be used to do lp conversion. hope this helps
i know all about the y-connector and where to plug it in, that's what i read everywhere i look. on the tower, there are composite audio input jacks, i don't want to use the line in, and for some reason i can't figure out how to utilize them to record my stuff. and i already have recording software...
there are various different flavours of record players, but most will need a phono box. there are some budget modern decks which have this built in to output a line out suitable for jacking into a computer (amp, etc) but the vast majority of record decks require pre-amplification and equalisation. and we aren't talking about 'to get it to work best' or 'for best sound' - we are talking about just getting the connection to work in the first place. there are phono boxes and there are phono boxes, but the cheapest way is to use your integrated amplifier, i.e. most likely the amp you had the record player plugged into originally. using the tape out of the integrated amp connected to the pc, you can record the preamplified signal of the record deck. if you want to get fancier / easier, this one for example has a usb output, so you can plug it directly into a usb socket of the pc. this saves you having to mess around with volumes too much, and will offer the best conversion since the signal is already digital when it enters your computer.
you're getting various terms mixed up so it's hard to tell, but if the 'composite jacks' you're talking about are yellow then they're for the teevee. not audio, video.
the problem is with the computer, not the record player, the jacks are red and white, right and left, and i have an amplifier, i just can't figure out how to access those jacks in vista
... your recording software should be able to choose between inputs. or go into control panel, type sounds into the search field, click on the sounds panel when it appears, go into the recording tab and chooose the device. there is a signal bar on the right hand side of each device, and if you select it and test-playback your record player, you should be able to see which is which.
i'm not sure if you've found the answer to this since it's an older post, however the reason you haven't been able to locate these jacks in your recording software or anything is because they are part of your tv tuner, not the sound board. so i really doubt you would be able to record any kind of audio from them without a coupled video signal. hope that helped! good luck! i have experienced a similar problem with these jacks, however i am trying to hook my ps3 up to my pc using the composite and av jacks that you are talking about on the front. the problem is that vista has no bundled software to tackle such a task, and therefor you are forced into using 3rd party software(unstable) that hasn't been tested with all hardware. this basically mean vista developers + hp hardware = dumb.
