i have this old midi keyboard which uses joystick port on the computer. now days computers don't have the joystick port any more. i have seen a few adapters online, i am not sure if they work with the midi keyboard or not can anyone recommend a good one? thanks.
the midi signals were on many older joystick ports for convenience and cost. it was still midi and not a joystick interface. so that is likely where you only need the midi card and cable to get it connected. the joystick port is only there to confuse us. bob
but the midi keyboard only has midi out, it doesn't have midi in. so i think that i still need to buy one of those game port converter. isn't that right?
midi signals were &quot;stuck&quot; or &quot;added&quot; to game ports because it would be costly to put the then standard midi port onto the sound cards of the day. as such there is never a need to think of this as a game port as a true game port would never have midi signals on it. creative labs used what we called a &quot;15-pin midi/joystick multiport,&quot; those adapters simply had the connections and connectors required to connect the midi signals. now back to your keyboard with midi out. interesting unit so you can't send it midi commands. most folk want the keyboard to play midi and now just send it. maybe this is something to consider? bob
you obviously know more than i do. but i just want to make this midi keyboard to work. i don't have a picture with me right now. but if i remembered it clearly, it has a game port /joystick port output, then a midi in or out which i kind of forgot. it only has one midi outlet. so what should i get? the regular game port converter or are you saying that i can get a midi coverter in order to play this keyboard on my current computer?
a game port would not have midi. i attempted to explain the history where creative labs add the midi signals to the 15 pin game multi port yet you ask for a game port to midi converter. since a game port has no signals we can use to talk midi, a converter is not possible. please add a midi port or if your game port has midi (remember multi port?) then get the cable you need. ==&gt;&gt; remember that i can't recommend any card or cable because i can't find what machines and midi keyboards are in play. bob
here is a picture of the midi keyboard.
i remember those units. that computer connection was so it could be controlled by same and the midi out was not only for output from the keyboard but to control down stream instruments. i'm sorry but i thought you were a midi aficionado and only was in need of getting your gear up and running again after a change of machines. after all this i'm beginning to thing this is your first midi setup. bob ps. the picture helps but when we get right down to it, make, model, age, manuals, etc.
