after a power failure, my computer failed to boot. i was able to use spinright, to fix the drive enough to get back into windows (xp) and my computer is again operable - however, the system is still slightly unstable and has a few residual problems. i'd like to buy a new hard drive and transfer everything over in the easiest way possible, but am not sure the best way to do this. my concerns are 1) if i make a mirror, i'm afraid the faults will transfer with it 2) if i make a backup and load it, windows won't recognize that it is registered any longer (i discovered this could be a problem after loading an old hard drive and window's wouldn't boot without a code (which i no longer have) i do own an hp recovery disk (xp came with the system so i'm guessing this would be on the recovery disk???) i also believe i have an old version of acronis lying around somewhere. i could probably also find a way to contact microsoft to reactive windows if needed. i have room to install a second hard drive and turn the corrupted hard drive into a slave drive, if that is needed. does any one have any experience with this issue? i'm sure there is more than one way to do this, but i'm trying to deduce which would involve the least hassle/ money spent. i'm only moderately tech savvy, but am not afraid to try new things. thanks!
you'll have to set aside the fears and get it done then see where things stand. for me the clone job is the easy path. just one thing i'll like to add. do not boot your machine after the clone job. just slide the clone into it's new home position and don't have the old hard disk attached to see if it worked. you don't want any chance that booting your old os will mark the clone as non-boot and you don't want to chance corrupting of what may be your only copy of your files. which brings up a point. are you ready for it to all vanish? bob
a true mirror or cloned hd will be accepted by the system it came from. thus, any hd used to input the mirrored data will work. however, you can not use yet another xp based system's hd and expect it to work, as xp will defeat that. in order to truly mirror/clone a hd the same data must come from the original hd to new hd and replace the old hd. i don't see the problem if you follow manufacturers directions of the s/w used. as for oem type xp, you will still need the key in order to register or proceed forward if freshly re-installed(recovery). if you don't have that, then request for some small cost from hp. of course, the system must be hp and not some other manufactures. as for transferring corrupt data or whatever data is on the old hd to new, that may happen, but you won't know until done. the good news if done and bootable, you can then replace or reload the pgms. or allow some recovery on a truly good working hd than a bad hd. just take one step at a time. tada -----willy
of my two laptops and three desktops. the cloned drives sit in an anti-static bag in an old vhs tape box. once a month or so i reclone them. but the os is flawless and error free. and that's the key words here. if you clone, any errors will be moved to the new hard drive. start from scratch and get a purring system, then clone the drive.
thanks for all the replies. it sounds like we have a couple differing opinions. i already own acronis true image, so maybe i'll run the program and see what happens. if the corruptions transfer over with new hard drive (which i would guess they would), then i'll have to try something else. here's where i'm going to show my lack of computer savvy... could the problems i'm experiencing be a result of the physical hard drive problem or a corrupted os? are both an option? i'm wondering if i switch to a new hard drive, what the odds are that i could wipe the old one and it would be usable again? secondly, assuming that making a clone doesn't work, what would happen if i run hp's system recovery disks on a new hard drive? does that work? or does it have to be run on the hard disk that windows was originally installed on? thanks for humoring me while i explore my options.
