hi, i have an internet connection (landline and wifi modem) at my parent's summerhouse as i need it for work. nobody else does around here so i get constant nagging from neighbours to give them the password. i can't say no however i'm afraid they may use up too much of my bandwith connection which could lead to alot of money being lost from my part. constant and stable internet is a must for my work. hence my question - how can i limit the bandwith i give to them? can i create a second public network with limited bandwith or something like that? thanks in advance!
and given they could download junk that gets you into trouble the answer must be no. given you'd have to replace the router or create one from a linux box, it's just not worth it to most folk and again it's back to just say no and then change the router to channel 14 (i will deny i wrote this) and then set your wifi to europe settings and they won't even see the wifi router to ask you. bob
thanks for your answer. i am actually located in europe. they know i have a wifi internet connection as i sit on the porch and do work. saying no is also pretty much impossible as they have helped me out quite a few times. &lt;div&gt; so in order to limit the bandwith i allocate to them i have to get a new router? no other easier way? &lt;/div&gt;
thanks for your answer. i am actually located in europe. unfortunately i can't say no as they have helped me out quite a few times and they know i have a wifi internet connection as i do alot of work from my porch. so in order to limit their bandwith i have to get a new router?
is what you are asking for. this is not a common feature in routers but folk have put such into linux based routers but it seems expensive to run 100 or 200 or more watt computer to do this.  is a page about these units. traffic shaping is the other common term used. read  on linux? read  hope this let's you see what you are in for. bob
let's see if you supplied what router or gear we are working with. oops. i can't find any. bob
