i am switching from a pc to a mac and am somewhat unfamiliar with the inner workings of macs. i am going to order an imac g5 (2.0 ghz) next week. i intend on ordering 1gig of ram and was thinking of ordering a single one gig dimm (so i could upgrade later without wasting memory). but i have seen some comments posted around the web arguing that the imac may run faster with matching pairs (i.e. 2 512 mb memory sticks are better than one 1 gb). i was wondering what you guys, who are obviously more experienced with macs that i, think. any thoughts. franklin
apparently the imac will perform a little better with matching pair of memory modules. i doubt you will notice the difference in everyday use. get the single 1gb and later you will be able to get the second on and have a matching pair. i don't know what the bench marks are for the different configurations but i'm guessing that unless you are doing something really ram intensive, it will not show. good luck p
was the info you refer to on the web was recent? old macs often had to have memory in 'pairs', but not any more.
1 gb stick of ram is better than 2 512mb. face it, would u like to search for a book in 2 bookshelves or one. same thing w/ ram. it's faster to transfer data to 1 stick of ram that 2. data transfer through the north bridge will be faster w/ one stick than if u utilize 2 ram sticks.
hope this is of some help. jay
i'd get the single stick of 1g ram because the difference in speed will be smaller than the difference in expense. by that i'm referring to the expense of losing two 512s to the stockpile or a reseller. if you upgrade as you say you might later, that is. if money is no object then get two 1g sticks. also, it's nice to be able to squeeze the last bit of speed out of a computer when it's older and the components cost less. just my 2 cents--your universe may vary.
i too remember those days.
thanks for the info franklin
my universe tends to agree with you, but i remain confused as the apple web site, referenced by hjh above, recomends buting in matched pairs, i remain confused. but i think i'll go with the 1 gig dimm and upgrade later. thanks to everyone. franklin
as i said in my first post, if you only have 1 x 1gb dimm installed, you will probably not notice any difference. installing matching pairs with only 1gb of memory (2 x 512) means that you will have to replace both the dimms, only two slots in the imac, when you decide to upgrade your memory if you want to maintain the matching pair strategy. install 1 x 1gb now, upgrade later, with another 1gb, and you now have the matching pair that apple recommends and will not have wasted any money. p
i'm pretty sure that apple, the designer of the logic board, are correct when they say that there is a speed difference when using two like sized memory modules in their imac. could it be that the memory data path is expanded when both slots are in use? p
i took your advise and just ordered it with a single 1 gig dimm. thanks for your help. franklin
