santa brought a new dvd drive for christmas. he got a oem from newegg. all that came was the drive and that was all. santa's helper (me) installed it. it must need drivers because it will not play a dvd movie. the drive is a ''nec dvd_rw nd-3550a. i went on google to look for nec but didn't find what i was looking for. please help!!
titles like powerdvd, windvd are common. having just the drive is not enough. also, drivers don't fix this issue. bob
when i put the dvd in auto run starts and a window opens and wants to know what program i want to use. i chose windows media player. another window opens and says '' windows media player cannot play the dvd because a compatible dvd decoder is not installed on your computer''. there are two buttons under that one is ''close'' and the other is ''web help''. web help takes me to a site to buy a plug in. is that what i need or is there something else?
you can find them for sale on the web but i found it cheaper to get a drive with said player software. bob
you can either go directly to the cyberlink website  to see what kind of deals they offer or just buy from the link you got directed to by windows. there are free alternative's, but the codecs those freebie's install sometimes play havoc with other media and playback software. the cyberlink plugin for windows media player will give you the powerdvd 4 codec (i believe), and your dvd's will play fine in windows media player on windows xp. this doesn't work on 98se or me since wmp doesn't play dvd's on those os's. you just miss some of the fancy audio and video tricks like multichannel audio and video enhancement. you get the decoder that downmixes the dvd's audio to 2 channel stereo and the video codec that will enable dvd playback through windows media player 9 and 10.
i'm having same problem. this problem only happens to new release dvds. i have powerdvd and windvd, and have 3 domputers with 3 different dvd-drives. however results are same. i was trying to watch 'transporter 2' which just came on blockbuster last week, but it won't play on a computer but my reg. dvd-player plays it. i think it's new copyright stuff or something. sucks!
if not, then what i noted does not apply and you should start your own discussion. bob
go to  and download the free frunhofer dvd codecs {230782}on lefthand collum and this will allow you to play dvd,s in wmp . this works for windows me and xp . i,ve done it and it works.
