hello, i'm new to cnet, and desperate for some help. i have just bought a new tower with a m7ncg 400 motherboard with onboard sound. it uses nvidia nforce audio ... i installed the drivers that came with the chipset cd and the device shows up in the control panel (im using win xp pro btw) under &quot;sound and audio devices&quot; and in the device manager, displayed that the device is working properly. everything seems fine, i can adjust volume and whatnot, but there is no sound coming from my speakers, except for a strange buzzing sound when i move my mouse. it's soft, and can only be heard if i have the speakers turned up significantly loud. everytime i move my mouse it's like i can hear it as a buzz... anyways, can anyone help? i would be very grateful i don't know what to do and i really need sound thanks a lot
check the port you are using as output to the speakers.
verify you're plugged in to the right sound port. then verify in the bios area that you have the audio, &quot;enabled&quot;. read your manual to find out just what key sequence is required to eneter the bios. also, make sure to save any changes before exiting the bios area. these are primary steps that have to be checked. good luck -----willy
i am plugged into the right port, but just in case i have tried all three...and also, i have it enabled through my bios. i have the sound enabled and the onboard lan disabled. what else could be wrong? :(:(:(
if downloading latest drivers doesn't work, you can pester the supplier for a working motherboard or disable the onboard sound and install a sound card. your choice. bob
test under the control panel-&gt; multimedia&sounds icon and try a sound output. or do an audio system setup where you config the speaker setup, output, etc. for best operation. that depends on the type of chipset you have. you can try reloading the mtrbd. drivers for audio as well. of course check to see that ouput isn't, &quot;muted&quot; or set so low. if none of this helps, then you may have a bad audio chipset, of course if any &quot;manual&quot; jumpers need to set, do so, check in the manual/docs for details. under device mgr, verify no red/yellow flags are present, if so, correct them. good luck -----willy
