my pc consistently reboots once the windows xp load screen completes. in other words, when the logon screen should display, instead the machine restarts. this problem originated after my house lost power; i'm not sure if that has anything to do with it. i ran a memory checker based on a friend's advice and everything seems fine there. i can't boot into safe mode or anything else. i fear a hard drive problem but hoping its something else. any suggested tests/remedies?
boot the xp cd and from the recovery console (see  ) run this chkdsk c: /f retest the boot. next up? a repair install. take your pick from this list.  bob
thanks for the reply. unfortunately, the chkdsk did not work, and when i tried to do a reinstall i got errors during the repair installation claiming &quot;setup cannot copy the file xxxxxx.xxx&quot;.
there is no file named that on the xp cd. this could mean a bad xp cd or bad cd drive or cable. the hard disk might be full. tell me the output of the chkdsk command so i can tell what state the hard disk is in. also it may take awhile but this could mean the hard disk couldn't be written to as in the case of sata drives. if you have such, be sure to tell. bob
i was just using the xs as space fillers. there are multiple files that cannot be copied, probably around 20-30, mostly system files, (.dll, .xsl, etc.) when i browse for the files, they are right there on the cd where they are supposed to be, but they will not copy! i also tried copying the entire directory from the cd onto the c: drive and accessing the files that way but they still will not copy to wherever the install is trying to put them. i was able to scan my hard drive for viruses while attempting to do a reinstall*, but it came up with nothing. at this point i am considering buying a new hd, installing xp on it and using it as my primary, although i would like to avoid that if at all possible. i will re-run the chkdsk and report to you the output when i get home today. my drive is an ata drive. also, i do not have the chkdsk c: /f option, only /r and /p, i ran both and /p reported that it found errors if i remember correctly, but again, i will get the proper wording to you later this evening. additionally, because the reinstall crapped out and there are system files missing, i get the dreaded blue screen whenever i try to boot into windows *i was able to do this while browsing for the files that could not be copied, i navigated the open file window to my computer and i was able to right-click the c: drive and scan it with mcaffee virusscan that way.
if chkdsk is fixing errors then that's telling us that something is amiss. share the messages as to what it's fixing. i don't need the entire message but just what it's fixing. the part of chkdsk i'd like to see is the free space. can you boot to a command prompt? bob
booting to command prompt yields the same result: a reboot.
boot to the xp cd and find your way to the recovery console and there you can chkdsk. more at  if you have a sata drive i've omitted what extra steps are required. bob
