hello everybody. let me start by giving the details. i have three pcs in my home. all three are networked with an active hub that ties to my modem. two of my pcs can access the internet as well as my sons xbox360. now for my problem. the newest pc is a compaq with vista home basic os. amd sempron 3600+ 894 mb ram 32 bit operating system 120 gig hd i have not been able to get onto the internet since i plugged in the cable. however, when i run the diagnostic tests found in the compaq hardware tools it says the connection is good and running at 100.00mbps i can ping the other pcs successfully i can ping the modem successfully it seems to me that i cant get passed my modem since pinging a website times out what about my modem would cause this pc to get locked out? or is it a vista default setting in explorer? please advise thanks jim
also, why are the make and models plus settings in your posts? bob
the router i have seems to be having a problem getting the signals through so i removed it. the rest of my computers have no problems with networking, lan or wan.
rob, i seldom post on the net, but every time that i have a tech type question everyone seems to get mad if you don't give them your system details. is it against the policy that i didn't really read concerning what you can post?
when you want it serviced. if you feel such is not needed just say so. but i don't like working blindfolded. bob
i have no idea what you are getting at now. did you reread all posts to make sure we are saying the same things? is your first post supposed to say &quot;what are&quot; and not &quot;why are&quot;? that is the only thing i can figure is wrong here. the router works, i just reattached it. it is a hawking hbr 49. now that i reattached it the hub(new) doesn't work. it is a lynksys nh1005(new). this is how i have it set up. wall phone jack to modem, a speedstream 4200. modem to router. 2 original pcs are currently in router because the hub will not work from router ports. the hub is currently connected to the first port, no signal. pcs are in 2 & 3 working fine i am going to double check the cabling to make sure new cable isn't different wiring sequence.
but without make, model and how things are connected we are often left with no where to start. sorry about that. &quot;because the hub will not work from router ports.&quot; armed with that clue i am still missing the make/model of the hub. some have the automdx feature, some don't. my answer is that you didn't wire to the uplink port but without the make/model i can't be sure of that answer. bob
yall make it sound so difficult. its probably an ip addroess conflict. the modem has a default ip address of probably 192.168.0.1 and you router probably does too. google ur models and they should tell u the exact ip address. ok connect modem with lan cable to pc. type in ip address in ie, and u should get to a browser based config utility for your modem. just change the ip to something other than ur router ip address, and make sure no computer will ever use that address on ur network. ex 192.168.0.2 instead of 192.168.0.1. then rehook everything and you sohuld get connected.
for bad spelling and grammar. just make sure your router and medem have different ip addresses, and you have entered the right info into them. ie. you have dsl and a static ip address or a username and password. you have to enter those things.
it is the linksys mentioned above.
i got the new pc to join in but now i have a laptop that wife uses in a corporate vpn that suddenly won't work. i am reviewing the manual for the router now and will get this figured out somehow. i agree that it is a router setting or two. some of the jargon is still 4in to me.
