i have a network setup in my house using a netgear 3500 wireless n router. i have a dell computer hooked to the router with a cat 6 cable and a hp printer hooked up with usb to that computer. i bought a new laptop with windows 7 and am trying to get that to be able to print wireless to the hp printer. i have followed the instructions from the microsoft site and can't get it to work. microsoft says it is possible so i must be missing something. i talked to a couple techs at bb who said they didn't think it would work because of the windows vista and windows 7 mix and advised me to buy a wireless print server. i could buy a wireless printer for a little more money than the print server, but really don't want to spend the money right now unless absolutely necessary. my granddaughter uses the laptop for her school work and then we have to hookup the laptop to the printer to print things out which is a real pain. has anyone else on the forum run into this and if so how was it fixed? if it won't work, i will bite the bullet and buy a wireless printer. thanks wayne
i have a network setup in my house using a netgear wireless n router. i have a new dell desktop with windows 7 hardwired to the router and a canon printer connected by usb to that computer. i have a laptop with vista and am trying to get that to to print wireless to the canon printer. when trying to print from the laptop i get a message which says that the print drivers can not be found on the laptop. do i need the drivers installed on the laptop if the print is connected to the desktop?
i was thinking the same thing and loaded the drivers and software on the wireless laptop and still couldn't it to work. a friend of mine has the same router and printer setup i do and has no trouble at all getting his wireless laptop to print. the big difference is both his desktop and laptop are windows 7 home premium. it must be a problem with windows 7 and vista not working with each other causing the problem. the techs at bb said it wouldn't work, but they were also trying to sell me either a wireless print server or wireless printer. i am going to another computer tech today that does this for his living and see what he says about it. will let you know what he says. wayne
contrary to what the bb and staples techs told me, you can print wireless without the expense of added equipment. the tech yesterday told me it can be done and said i had it setup right, but was leaving out one step, the last one, choosing the network named printer rather than local. if you go to microsoft support and follow the instructions closely on setting up your network, it will work. wayne
