i am trying to an epson wf 545 to connect to a wireless network. i get an error message when it fails to connect to a networked imac. the message says, &quot;entered security key/password does not match the one set for your router/access point.&quot; several weeks ago, i had to reset my wireless network password/security key. that reset worked for our 3 pcs and 2 macs including this imac...the one that now doesn't connect to the wireless printer or maybe vice versa. i don't know what's going on...why the imac can't connect to the epson (or vice versa), but the imac does connect to the wireless network, and in order to do that, it makes use of the new network password / security key that i just put in the epson to set it up in the network. can you tell me if the wireless router somehow has a password / security key that i did not change when i changed the wireless network security key? the new network password/security key that i entered in the epson is correct. no doubt of that.
i've learned to go back to wpa2 aes personal, set the name of the network to simple 8 character words and same for the password for a test run. there are many systems that don't work with fan$y passwords. bob
hi rp, resetting the network password/security key was costly and time consuming. i had to pay some guy from india (linksys) 30 bucks to walk me through it. i do not remember how to do it. is it easier than i remember, or do you know how to do it in such a way that i would not have to revist mumbai?
setting wifi router passwords is what you should do yourself. i'd learn how and save the time and money. every router i've used had a chapter for that procedure. it is not something i find folk having done for them very often. bob
i got the router years ago and may or may not be able to find a how-to chapter on setting wifi router passwords. my question, however, was whether or not there is one passwork/security key for the network and another one for the router, as the epson error message has led me to believe. i know the network password/security key works for the network, so why does the wirelss printer not take it?
i had a hp wireless printer that did not work with my router. other settings and other routers, sure. but as i wanted to keep my router i returned the printer for another make and that fixed it. as to why the wireless printer not taking it is pretty simple. there is a software bug somewhere. and it's showing up by not letting you set it up. there can be other reasons such as the person who set up the router enabled mac address security but that does not matter as you don't administrate your router. suggestion? connect the printer to the router with ethernet to solve it. bob
that seems reasonable. i guess i will still be able to share the printer on the network. i say guess because i tried to do that, but failed. i connected an ethernet cable to the printer and then went into setup using the epson disk. copied all the epson printer files to the imac, then tried to do the printer setup on the epson, then tried to get the imac to add the epson printer. when i first got the printer a few months ago, the imac found it on my wireless network, connected, and i was able to print from the imac with no trouble. after resetting the network password/security key, the imac connected to the wireless network, but the epson refused. i described that problem earlier. now, per your advice, i ran an ethernet cable from the router to the printer and tried to connect. no dice. i am not sure what to do. the epson install disk has a users manual for all knds of things like copying, faxing, etc. but nothing much on setting up to an ethernet network (and i'm not sure that i have an ethernet network just because i ran an ethernet cable between the router and the printer), or a wireless network through an ethernet cable (because i suspect i will be asked for the wireless password/security key that eposon doesn't seem to like), and finally, if the imac is supposed to detect the epson automatically after i put the ethernet cable in, it has refused to do that so far. in short, i may be closer to getting the printer back, but i am not there yet. probably the question i need to have answered at this point is how do i proceed if the imac doesn't see the epson at the end of the ethernet cable.
i usually have the printer dhcp at first then latter if i have time set it to some known address on my lan. you write about using the epson cd but for setting the printer settings on the printer i use the controls on the printer to do that. and again about the espon cd. i've found such cds to be out of date even on a new printer. i always head to epson.com and get their latest. bob
bob, you said, &quot;i usually have the printer dhcp at first then latter if i have time set it to some known address on my lan.&quot; my printer currently has an ip address of 0.0.0.0. that can't be good. otherwise, i don't know how to &quot;dhcp&quot; a printer. is that &quot;automatic&quot; or do i have to go to a command prompt or something? &quot;you write about using the epson cd but for setting the printer settings on the printer i use the controls on the printer to do that.&quot; i can set ink, maintenance, etc, but the &quot;setup&quot; menu has nothing to do with an ip address or making a connection. apart from the setup menu button, there is a network settings and a wireless network setting. but i don't know how they work or how they apply to my printer ethernet-linked to my router. you said, &quot;and again about the espon cd. i've found such cds to be out of date even on a new printer. i always head to epson.com and get their latest.&quot; the cd install worked fine a couple of months ago when i linked the epson to my wireless network. why should it not work now? thanks, bob
that the printer could not obtain an address and is the clue you have work to do to get it to work. what's wrong could be anything from a distance issue, the wifi channel issue i noted at  to a bum router. some can't accept any answer and i find they have to be given time for it to sink in. bob
