i need to replace my power supply. thing is, i'm pretty sure the model i have isn't made anymore. my question is - can i go with different specs? i.e., can i go with a higher wattage? does the input voltage/ampage need to match? basically, what do i have to look for in the specs of a purchase so it's compatible with my tower. i'm powering 1 hard drive, 2 rom's, audio, video card, and a floppy drive. i've found some really good deals online but i dont want to buy something i cant use. here's my current specs -- input rating: 115v-6a 230v-3a 50/60hz output rating: 235w (max) red +5v 23a yellow: +12v 9a white: -5v 0.5a blue: -12v 0.5a orange: +3.3v 15a purple: +5vsb 1a black: gnd gray: power good +3.3v & +5v 115w max
if you use a generic system or plain build using a generic power supply based on the atx12v model, you can use any wattage. the higher the better as it uses &quot;what it needs&quot;. make sure the p/s unit mentions its for intel or and/or amd rated for a better fit on your system. look should look at the physical size of things, but usually your basic replacement is very swappable, though a &quot;mini&quot; size is present. also, expect some extra cables to daggle as you may not use all of them. look here for some clues:  if you have a local shop, take in hand your old p/s and then ask for a replacement, even if it costs more, its a done deal. however, if you have a oem or big vendor build system like dell, gateway, etc., make sure any replacament is rated for its use and/or model installation, but a higher wattage is still installable. here sizing, wiring and/or special connects will come into play, so verify that. enjoy -----willy
there is someexcellent infor at tom's hardware guide specifically an article: inadequate and deceptive product labeling: comparison of 21 power supplies created: october 21, 2002
you supplied a lot of info about the psu, but you didn't say the make of the pc or the psu type at or atx. yes, if you have a dell they use a modified atx psu. john
sorry guys, i didnt know i needed to supply that info. my cpu is a built system from a little local company, not a big vendor system. its pentium 3. i was going to go with a 300 watt pu from sparkle, i think.
in many cases 300w p/s maybe enough if only the it is a decently made one. these cheap units you see now just don't cut it. understand also, that the wattage rating is for the &quot;peak output&quot; it can support but not on a *constant level*, so buy a larger p/s unit you can afford. i should have mentioned 350w is a good start, but 400w is better, if you buy cheap then get the highest wattage you can find. it wouldn't hurt your system to have extra wattage, it's just &quot;available on demand&quot;. try  or  for a good source of p/s units and selection. you'll see the varying price range. enjoy -----willy
