hello, i am hoping that someone out there who has gone through a similar expierance might be able to help me. i was asked by one of the advisors at my local private elementary school (i am not in elementary school) to come up with a solution for them. they have three different rooms that they let the students use computers (the library, the computer lab, and a small lab in after-school-center). the teachers would like to have one computer to store all of their education files such as course outlines, student-teacher agreement forms, multimedia, pictures of the school ect. right now they have all of the computers networked and some files are stored over here, over there, ect. but they would like to consolidate and have all of the files on one one 'file server.' the teachers that i am working with said it would be ideal if they had something like this: if teacher a opened and edited a presentation x, then teacher b would not be able to edit presentation x until teacher a was finished with it. they would also like, if possible, to have all of their documents automatically be uploaded to the server once they shut off their computers at night (or something similar). does anyone have any recomendations on where to start? thanks
does the school use a ms windows network? if so, adding a file server to the environment should be as easy as adding the server, creating the file structure, organizing the &quot;access permissions by user account&quot; setup. windows 2003 is pretty easy to setup, but i do recommend that you consult with an mcse, to achieve the proper design. in regards to the access/permissions, again, windows 2003 will provide the tools to setup such an environment (its all about the ntfs configuration). in regards to having all the files &quot;upload or something like that...&quot; use file shares and roaming profiles.
hi, thanks for the response. yes the school uses a ms windows network. ill check out w2003 then. thanks,
if you have to ask these types of questions that it should be you that is advising the school. don't take this the wrong way, but sometimes we confuse enthusiasm with ability and both parties loose out. remember too, that if you do manage to build this system and something goes wrong with it, at any time of the day or night, it will be you that will be expected to fix it, instantly. p
