i have an epson perfection 2580. it has been great. press a button and photo is on my computer. it is fairly new, about 6 months old. tonight i started scanning photos for my next video project. the first few were great. then all of a sudden each photo went onto my computer with red streaks, and when imported into elements it looked like the scan was reading the whole document table and not just the photo (the photo would be sitting at the top of the scanned image with colored lines streaming down from the photo, as if bleeding; rest of scanned image is while background). i got out my manual and tried all the troubleshooting recommendations. none helped. i doubt it is a defective product because it was just working beautifully! (the only thing i did that was different was place a colored sheet of paper behind multiple photos to scan multiples simultaneously into photoshop elements. i abandoned that for unrelated reasons.) if you can offer suggestions or possible websites for me to study, i will be so grateful. (sorry for length of message).
try rebooting and trying again, but when the scanners fail, what you wrote is typical. bob
and the problem is still there (although the scanned image is back to the proper size--it still has the red, streaky lines). i updated the driver, and the problem (red streaky lines like a special effect) is still there. i scanned a white sheet of paper and the image did not have red streaky lines, but instead had a very thin blotchy green coloration. my next question, somewhat hopeful: does this sound like it could be a coloration problem? or is it looking even more like equipment failure? your thoughts much appreciated.
typical of the scanner's sensor element is failing. some don't want to hear this and slip into denial mode, but your words are true to what you see when the scanner is on it's last day. the downside is that repair can exceed the price of a new scanner. bob
my scanner was dead. best buy replaced it tonight, no questions asked. mind if i ask a newbie follow-up question? the new scanner identical to the old with the same software. i had recently updated the drivers on the old one. can i just plug the new one in and run it on the old software or do i have to uninstall the old software and install the new?
actually your &quot;old&quot; software is the latest and greatest.. same with updated drivers... leave it alone. jack
i always give it a shot if its the same model. if it's a new model, i uninstall the old and follow the directions with the new one. i know it sounds odd to follow directions.... bob
