i bought an acer aspire z3750 which is an all-in-one model. very happy with the performance, but struggling with the tilted screen, which has an uncomfortable angle. when chatting or skyping, the webcam only picks up the upper part of the face, as the screen is facing up the ceiling. and my six-year-old has to sit on his knees on the chair in order to see the screen properly. has anyone a solution for this problem?
from the images i can see in a google search the screen seems to be fixed at that angle. all i could suggest is to prop it up. place something solid under the stand at the back so it tilts forward. the legs on the monitor itself don't look as though they will stand flat at any other angle so it might be unstable, but i can't see any other way to adjust the angle. i don't know what ports this unit has, but if it has a spare vga port then you could try connecting another monitor and using that as your main display, but the web cam issue won't be solved. shame. it looks a nice, sleek model. mark
thanks, yes, the computer is great. i have tried propping it up, but was afraid of unstability. i was wondering if the foot has different settings and i just wasn't seeing how to set it up any other way. maybe some users have the same model and have also experienced this?
i did a quick check of the acer supplied user guide and it offered practically nothing in &quot;how to adjust&quot; the viewing angle. though, it mentions to adj the viewing angle for better viewing and/or the user adj. themselves to help reduce strain and ease of viewing. i would think at least some minor adj. is possible but most aio tend to be very limited in travel of the screen or whole aio for that matter. i didn't check into a true manual from acer which would have been more helpful. acer does supply these with the system or file based in order to print out. if you like visit the acer support website as well. i also would suggest if that model is capable of being vesa mounted. that way, buy the mounting h/w and you truly can move the aio itself more aptly. tada -----willy
i see that this may be a recent purchase. why keep it? if you think it's a design defect, call it that and ask for a full refund. bob
i have the same problem as the other posts. bob3rd1
