i am running xp media center - i had no viruses and everything is scanned daily. yesterday i left my laptop only to return to the below...no new software or hardware changes were made and no viruses or malware showed on my daily scan this week... when windows xp tries to load, i get the following message: &quot;we apologize for the inconvenience, but windows did not start successfully. a recent hardware or software change might have caused this.&quot; my options are: start in safe mode. safe mode with networking. safe mode with command prompt. last known good configuration setting (most recent setting that worked). start windows normally. the only discs i have are the system recovery disc, the application and driver recovery dvd and a full copy of an old version of xp - i need to save the data on this hard drive - i cant lose it and reformat. i used the system recovery disc, then when it asked i canceled out of the disc and it self started chkdsk - 8 of 8 segments unreadable - index $130 file 31 being fixed. i cant boot in any of the safe modes or to a previous config. no matter what option i pick, it just loops back to the page with the &quot;we apologize for the inconvenience, but..&quot; options. i tried a hard disk self test and got the error #1 -07 fail, 10 seconds after it started. i really need the data on this pc so getting a new hd isn't the answer. what is? i am running an hp pavilion dv6000 with windows xp media center and a phoenix bios. the hd is a seagate 80gb momentus s400 2. any help is greatly appreciated.
have you tried to boot from the old copy of xp or from your system restore? you wont want to start a restore or anything but it seems like you just need to be able to access the hardrive to get your files out. and for the future, i would recommend that you get a backup program and a nice, fat external hdd. 1tbs run for around $200 or less now i think.
i tried to get to the system restore with no luck. i have an old copy of xp pro. if i boot off of the cd, would i still be able to view my hd? i am being extra cautious because i dont want to lose the data. thanks.
if you are serious about this you remove the hard disk from the machine and put it into some desktop or usb case. then you explore data recovery software with titles like: getdataback zero assumption recovery (many) linux boot cds all found with google but if the files are worth something, this is how its done. bob
i had this same problem. other web info suggested a drive failure. i even suspected i would need a new copy of vista or xp (it came installed on my hp/compaq). here's what worked for me: i started the computer and went to the diagnostic mode. message was that windows could not fix it. then went to the &quot;advanced help&quot; hotspot on the panel and selected &quot;go to system&quot; (which is a dos panel). i then went to the c: drive root directory with c: then typed chkdsk /f /r to force dos to try to locate and repair any bad files or clusters. this took about 45 minutes to complete but located quite a few orphaned files. btw: you will get a message about chkdsk not being able to repair because the session is held by another process, but you will get an option to disconnect it. tell it to disconnect it. then, restart the computer. vista will take longer to restart because it has to rebuild some tables, but eventually it came back to me just fine. since i had never made a restart/backup disk, i made it my first task to get this done. i hope this is encouraging to you and you can get it to work again. good luck.
thanks for the info - 1 quick question; you posted &quot;i started the computer and went to the diagnostic mode.&quot; is the diagnostic mode in the bios or within windows (specifically how do i get there)? thanks a ton.
hi, i tried using chkdsk/f/r command on dos, but it failed at stage 2 of 5, giving a message &quot;insufficient disk space to recover lost data&quot;
hi, i think you need a software from critical rescue team will also contain solution to a formatted hard drive recovery. pls remind us to send you the link as soon as possible. thanks.
