i am running into the most frustrating situation. i will try to describe it as best as possible and hopefully one of the great folks on the cnet forum can help me here is the situation. i am trying to connect a cell phone to my pc via a usb 2.0 cable. if it matters more specifically it is the lg vx8360 through verizon, but i think it is a pc vs phone issue for reasons i will note below. the main issue is when i plug it in, the pc recognizes the device, the phone begins to try to 'connect' to the pc (there is a status window on the phone) but then after 10-15 seconds i get a connect failure message i have downloaded the driver from verizon.com. i am 99% sure it is the correct driver. when i go to my device manager it shows the phone, is says it is enabled and working properly, but again it does not actually connect to sync. now here is why i think it is a pc issue. i actually own 3 of the exact same phone (one for me, my wife and my son). happens to each phone. also i downloaded the exact same driver to a laptop, plugged in the phone, and it connected without any issues. worked perfectly. however this is my work laptop that i can't rely on using long term to connect my phone. now, the reason i need to connect my phone is because this phone has vcast for rhapsody capability i want to utilize. i mention this because it means my pc must recognize the device via a usb cable in order to use their subscribtion service. i can't just simple use a microsd card in my card reader to pass files back and forth. anyway - the heart of the question: is there something on the pc that may be blocking the ability for the phone and pc to sync and connect? i don;t think it is the driver itself. could the firewall i am running block the sync? is it my other security software? i also read about registry keys in looking online for help but i have no idea what those are or if that would help. btw, i have also uninstalled (i think) and reinstalled the drivers multiple times, i have restarted the pc (and turned the phones off and on just in case that matters) in between driver installs, and i have tried multiple usb ports including 2 on the front and 2 on the back that work perfectly fine for other devices. so again i really think it might be some system issue blocking the sync. any thoughts? long post i know but i wanted to give the most info possible. please help if you can. i mainly want to be able to move rhapsody subscription music to my 9 yr old son's phone who is very excited about being able to do this. main reason i went with a suscription capable verizon phone and now it is an unusable feature until this is solved
let me share i run into this a lot. here's the top two reasons i encounter. 1. the usb cable. i have 3 usb to phone cables in my drawer that work here but not there. unreliable! point. don't rule out the cable. 2. the pc. if it's a desktop try the rear usb ports. if a laptop, try each port. you didn't tell enough about the pc, the os and such. for example i don't expect this to work in windows 95 to me and same for 2000 and xp. why xp? xp came with usb 1.1 support and didn't get usb 2.0 fixed until sp2. these details matter. hope other ports and cables help. good luck. bob
i did try multiple ports as i noted above. 2 on the front and 2 on the back. not sure if it matters but ports have been used for other devices (cameras, sandisk sansa mp3 player, printers etc) without issue. also, i did fail to mention i also have 2 separate cables. i tried both of them. i will say each of them were purchased through amazon.com and were like $5.00 each. verizon also has what i think is the same cable but they want $19.99 for it. i have used the cable and put the phone in mass stoage device mode and been able to transfer pictures back and forth, so i think it is an issue when the phone tries to go to sync mode for rhapsody versus the ports or cables my system info is as follows: mocrosoft windows xp media center edition version 2002 service pack 2 hp pavilion (i would have to look up the model #) amd 64 dual core proc 4200+ 1 gb ram running windows media player 10 (should i update to 11? will that matter maybe?) running windows explorer 7 (should i update to 8? will that matter maybe?)
if device manager is fine with the device we stop looking at cables and ports and drivers. now we look at rapsody and what security software can trip that up.  is one of dozens of examples where the security software can block the applications. a firewall can do it in as well. ask the security software you have installed to re-authorize this application and not block it. bob
thank you so much for your help. i think that is the right direction but i have one last question (or at least i hope it is one last one) let me see if i can descibe this - you know how when you initially plug in some devices it asks you what application you want to use to access the device, and at that time you can pick one and also indicate if you want to always use that application. here is what i think is happening - i think when i plug in the phone and hit music sync it is trying to open an application. issue is i don't know which application it is. i do not think it is rhapsody. rhapsody is just the application i eventually want to also use with this device. when i plug the phone into my work laptop (the one that works) i don't think i have an application associated with the phone. it does come up with a box with 3-4 options on what application to use. my home pc (the one i want to get to work) i do not get this option. so again i think plugging in the phone causes an application it is associated with to try to open, which is then causing it not to connect. so phew... here is my question: how do i 'deassociate' this so that is goes to asking me what application to use? that is what i want to do. can i do that from some place? or how to i determine what application it is trying to use so that i can reauthorize it (or authorize it) from the virus software you decribed. i hope i am asking this correctly and describing what i am trying to say. i really hope i can get this to work and i am at the point now where i really think plugging the phone and hitting sync music is causing the pc to try to open an application, it isn't, and thus it does not connect.
open v cast music with rhapsody. dont have v cast music with rhapsody? download it for free at  2. plug in the usb cable to your phone and connect it to a usb port on your pc. 3. from the main screen on your phone, the sync music v cast mobile phone display appears. your phone should display the message: connected. 4. drag and drop the song(s) you want to sync from my library, to your v cast mobile phone, listed under the sources tab. it appears you can't use any old rhapsody?
i have done all of that. even went as far as removing the old rhapsody, then installing the vcast rhapsody. the issue is in the step here: 3. from the main screen on your phone, the sync music v cast mobile phone display appears. your phone should display the message: connected. it does not. instead i get the device saying: connect failure plus here is some additional/new info: 1) on my laptop (the one that works) i downloaded the driver from verizon but i did not download vcast for rhapsody (not yet at least). so on the laptop that works, it connects even without vcast rhapsody downloaded. now, eventually if i wanted to in turn use rhapsody application to copy subscription music then i would obviously have to download it as well, but on the laptop where it recognizes the device i have not yet done this. btw - the reason i just don't use my laptop and be done with this is because it is my work pc and as such i do not want to download non work related applications like rhapsody - it is against company policy. i need to get my home pc working 2) on my home pc (desktop) - the non working one, as i mentioned above i did uninstall old rhapsody and download vcast rhapsody just in case it mattered. i have used rhapsody for years and know enough that you go to rhapsody, plug in device, device should be found, then you authorize device and you are good to go. rhapsody allows for 3 devices to be authorized for subscription music and i only have one in use prior to the phone. so... it is a issue that when i connect i cannot get step 3 to work. now - updated info: in the mean time, i did some more investigation. i connected the phone to the laptop that works, and when i looked in device manager to see the driver assigned it was the following: wpdusb.sys and the device was shown under windows portable devices now, the kicker: onto my desktop (the one that does not work): when it is not trying to sync it is shown under modems, listed as lge cdma usb modem, and the driver is: lgusbmodem.sys but when i hit sync and it tries to sync for 10-15 seconds instead temporarily it refreshes and a device shows up under the unknown devices with the yellow ?. if i do it fast enough i am able to click on that, and it says no devices are loaded now, the real kicker when i searched cnet for the wpdusb.sys driver i think i found a thread where someone had the same thing - goes as far as saying on the 'bad' pc they don't have a driver, on the good one they have the updusb.sys driver, but i am not 1005 following the solution. here is the thread:  so - i think (could be wrong) i need to get the wpdusb.sys driver to be associated with the phone when i sync it. so how do i do that? i tried the install new driver, from the list or or specific location, but not sure how to find that driver, or if i did how it associates to the phone. i tgink i just need that driver to be associated to using my device as a windows portable device i am so sorry this post was so long, but i am trying to give as much info as i know and see if i am on the right path
you wrote enough that now i can connect your issues with everyone elses. the one thing i see is that drm thing and the mtp must be selected. remember that many security suites can shoot this down in flames so i can't guess if some privacy component of mcnortonca... is blocking this. -&gt; i'm going to have to bow out after one last idea. the old wmp drm update fix is one i can't find but try updating it to the latest wmp. bob
i wanted to put in my two cents if i may. you mentioned that when the device is not syncing, it's listed as a modem in device manager. by any chance do you have the vzaccess manager from verizon on the desktop computer (non-working)? also, have you tried looking at the usb auto sync found within the phone settings? 1. with the flip open, press &quot;ok&quot; 2. scroll to &quot;settings & tools&quot; 3. press 8 usb auto sync then try fooling around with the options: &quot;sync music/ sync data/ ask on plug&quot;? you may want to try &quot;ask on plug&quot; so that way at least you are being prompted when you plug in your cellphone. also, what os is your work machine running? is it xp as well?
in regards to the vcaccess manager, i did have that installed at one time but i deinstalled the application. verizon tech support messed me up on that initially - when i first called them (i stopped after my 5th call) they had me download that. that software actually is meant to enable you to use your cell phone as an access point for the internet for your pc. not at all what i wanted. my fear is even though i have deleted the app, it still recognizes the device as a modem i have tried the auto sync and also going to music, then sync. it really is an issue with the driver i think. when i am in the device manager and then hit sync on the phone you can see the list of devices refresh itself, and i get the yellow ? mark next to the device if i click on that fast enough, i get the window about the device, and it says it has no driver. i think the issue is when it tries to go into sync mode after reading tons of posts from the link robert gave me above i really think i need to load or point it to the wpdusb.sys driver but for the life of me i have no idea how to do that. if i try to do in manually in the device manager it searches for drivers for the modem and won't do it. i think i need to make it think it is looking for drivers for a windows portable device
work pc is also xp. one thing about work pc is it has very little junk etc on it meaning misc programs etc - very clean machine if that makes sense in comparison to most home pc's. i think that helped in that i don't have god knows how many background programs and stuff running
yeah, i agree, from the sounds of it, it could be driver issue. i've round this link a particular interesting read:  give that a read and see if the workaround in there would help.
