hi everybody, specs: computer model number: hp pavillion ze4610us os: win xp home edition router: linksys wireless-g 2.4 ghz model:wrt54g i purchased linksys router in order to network my desktop pc and my laptop to be on the internet at the same time using my dial up isp. i didn't realize that my router does not support the server for dial up connection. linksys rep further told me that i still could network both computers at a local level but i wouldn't be able to use the dial up connection as a gateway. he told me that i could do it through win xp networking software but he was not allowed to tell me how seeing he works for linksys etc. please help!. i need to know if there is anything i need to purchase in order to network both computers together to run the same dial up connection? thanks for all your help in advance. -s
will be limited to that of a switch to provide a simple lan connection between the two pcs. the routers gateway abilities need to be turned off and set to router functionality. in addition dhcp and nat addressing gets turned off as well. you would then use the network connection wizard of xp home on the pc that has the dialup connection. choosing to use this pc as a gateway, windows will use it's own internet sharing program (ics) to provide a shared internet connection. a broadband connection to the internet provides a simpler and much faster connection. if at all possible, this is the way to go.
support dial up, one of them is apple extreme base station (not apple express -&gt; this is an accesspoint only). have a look and get as many information you can get on how to configure etc. better yet google it for such device.
thank you so much for your replies. the routers gateway abilities should be disabled in my network connections? i know hardly anything about networking so i wanna make sure that i am doing the steps correctly. i have been battling with this all weekend. you said &quot; in addition, dhcp and nat addressing gets turned off as well. does that automatically happen when i turn off the routers gateway? or do i have to manually turn that off myself. i already ran xp home networking but i still dont see how it works, sorry for sounding so clueless but maybe i have the cables in the wrong places. i dont want to be changing any settings if there is not need because the only problem being i just got it connected wrong. i need more insight please. thank you so much for taking the time to help me. -s
well explained, &quot;user friendly&quot; hope it helps jonah .
i must ask again if broadband is in the works. with high speed internet this setup becomes almost automatic. in any event, the settings i speak of are in the routers setup program. you access that program by typing 192.168.1.1 in your web browsers address bar. once in, you type admin into the password box, hit enter and you ahould be in the routers setup page. referring to the manual on page 29 you will see the settings from gateway to router. page 23 shows where to disable dhcp and page 25 shows where network address settings are disabled. don't forget to save your settings after each change. once this is done, your router should now be acting as a wireless access point with a built in switch. you can run the internet connection wizard on the pc that has the dialup modem and configure it as the server of the dialup connection. with any luck both pcs will be able to connect to the internet when the pc hosting the dialup connection is active.
