hi, i'm looking to put together a mid-range to (low)high-end workstation pc for my own use and i'm trying to educate myself on what parts i should think about getting, but i am stuck on the video card. geforce cards are way more affordable than the quadro fx cards(i'd like to stick with nvidia.) in a perfect world i'd like the performance of the quadro with the price of a geforce.... but to be honest i've never used a quadro and wouldn't know how much of a difference it makes. would it make more sense to buy a high end geforce or a mid to entry range quadro?
basically, i want to build a pc that will be a great station for me to improve my skills with 3d softwares on, mainly maya/3dmax. i use photoshop and painter as well, but i'm certain i won't have problems running those. i figure quadros are for professionals who are making money through 3d design, so i wouldn't need a $1,600 quardo card, but i'm wondering if a lower end quadro would be better for learning on than a high end geforce.
any help?
...geforces don't. probably 95% of the time, a geforce will render exactly as a quadro with no issues. but sometimes, you might encounter quirks or anamolies. nvidia will not address any quirk produced by geforce drivers in autocad, maya, etc. but it will address issues with quadro drivers. likewise, most 3d app vendors test and certify quadro drivers to ensure they work without issues. the typical quirks can usually be worked around or avoided by changing resolution, screen layout, or just living with a display anamoly. a card like a $130 geforce gts 250 uses the exact same gpu as a quadro that's 4 times (or more) expensive. to me the bottom line is this: if you make your living from your 3d apps, then get a quadro. time is money and you don't want to futzing about with a video card issue when you're on a delivery deadline. missing it could cost you a lot more than the price of a quadro. but if you can live with an occassional quirk here or there (and the occassional frustration), then get a geforce.
