so i have a 16gm sandisk jump drive, it has maybe 3 gbs on it. i tried saving a picture off my face book to it and it says that the disc is full. i had 12 gbs of music on it - and pulled that off, onto an external, restarted the system so now its back down to only 3 gbs of pictures on the drive, but i'm still getting the error, the folder i'm saving it into has 38,xxx files on it, could that be the issue? oh and using windows 7, same issue on firefox and chrome, i can open word and save a doc into the folder as well no issues
you can see this happen if all the files are in the top folder. solution? use a folder. bob
i can't even create a new sub folder i get error 0x80070052, the folder structure is that i have the jump drive, then the folder &quot;pictures&quot; then my jpg files, i can create another folder on the main directory but not in the sub folder. can the folder itself become &quot;full&quot;? the other oddity is that i can pull the folder off the jump drive and save it onto my external(click and drag) and then still save files to it.
and because the long file names can take up multiple entries, there is no set number i can give you on what the top folder can hold. try to keep it low to under 100. and before you do anything else. back up this stick so you can start fresh. bob
since most flash drives come in fat32 format, some glitches apply. how big is the file being tried to save? even, if the file is smaller than 4gb, it may allocate a larger size in order to fulfill the final total of needs. save, all your data and try this. once that is done, reformat the flash drive to ntfs format and that should help greatly handle large files or data transfers to storage. i found even 3gb+ sizes can cause problems. tada ------willy
things you can do/try: - copy the existing pictures off to your hard disk, delete them on the usb-stick, chkdsk it, then make some subfolders and copy the files back to them. try to keep each subfolder less than 5000 pictures. - don't save from your browser to the jump drive. first save to a temp folder on your hard disk. then copy to the jump drive using your favorite file manager (like windows explorer) probably one of these alternatives is enough to solve your issue. but it won't harm at all to do both. kees
