hello, i have an ibook g3, and when i start it i get the folder/question mark in the middle of the screen. i wanted to try with the hardware test disk but i can not insert the disk. the door want open. is there a way to open the door other than pressing f12 key. thanks j.k.
on the door of the cd tray, you will see a small hole. take a straightened paper clip, preferably one that fits in the hole and gently push it into the hole. you should hear a little click and then the tray will open. before you do that, make sure that you do not already have a cd in the tray, it should be visible on the desktop if there is one in there, and if there is, drag it to the trash. that will make it eject. of course, if there is nothing in there, do the first suggestion let us know what happens p
thank you for the suggestion, it worked. i opened the door by using a paper clip. now i have a problem that the door won't close?
sometimes it needs a little persuasion right at the end p
i managed to close the door. when holding the c key (c letter not ctrl key ?)nothing happens. when holding down the alt key, i get 2 icons each with an arrow inside. one straight arrow pointing to the right and the other curved like unclosed circle pointing also to the right. and a cursor in the shape of a watch. nothing happens when clicking either icons. after a long while text appears where among other things it is written &#8243;type mac-boot and press return&#8221; but nothing happens when i do that. any suggestions what i could do next? thanks a lot
hold it down at the first chime and keep it down until you see the grey apple and the spinning wheel. the option key will show you all available boot disks that the system sees. they are represented by the icons that you saw. if it does not display the cd that you have inserted, then the system does not recognise it as a valid startup disk. this could be because the cd drive is defective or that the disk itself is not correct or is damaged. the flashing question mark indicates that the system cannot find the system folder on the hd. either a corrupt system or a dead hd. keep trying the &quot;c&quot; route for a while. p
unfortunately &#8243;c&#8221; route did not work. i can hear the cd drive beginning to spin but then only folder with the question mark appears again.
