i have a dell hybrid that will not boot to the os. it loads about halfway and goes to this screen. i cannot reload windows at this point and would like some help on what to do. i ran a diagnostics test and the hdd test passed. press f2 for run setup. press f11 if you want to boot from the network. press f12 for bbs popup. the mch is operating with ddr2-667/cl5 in dual-channel. it will not let me boot into safe mode. what can i do to reinstall the os.
1. the cd/dvd drive has aged and can't boot anymore. try cd/dvd lens cleaners first then a new drive. 2. there are usb things plugged in. try without. 3. the hdd has one of those boot virus infections. to fix that has too many solutions from bootable cds to reinstalling the os. keep supplying clues so other ideas can be put forward. bob
i have tried to boot the os from the cd/rom and it will not work. i can't even hear it turning. i have changed the boot order to cd and still nothing. i can't seem to get past this page at all. i can go into the the system using f11/f12 and f1 and f2 and that is it. tell me what information you need and i will be happy to give it to you. by the way, thank you bob.
put the cd in the drive and note it's orientation. close it, wait a second and open it. if the cd comes out in the same orientation the drive is likely dead. there isn't much more information needed yet. it sounds like some repairs are required. more story would be nice such as that infection you noticed and cleaned off. bob
it belongs to a friend and she said there was no problems beforehand so i am not sure. she states that she was on facebook and had to run to town so she just left the page open and when she got back she had the page with all the information. she also says that this is her 3rd cd rom and she was having problems with it as well. is there anyway other way to reinstall the os? when i put the cd in it takes forever for it to let me eject it. i was hoping i could put it in and the option would pop up to reinstall.
i didn't read the test result so i can't tell if it's the old issue. as to replacing many drives that's pretty common in some machines as the drive is in some hot area of the case. the drives last a year or 2. at least drives are cheap. as to installing windows, i used dell's install notes for that machine. i rarely have to dream up another method. bob
i finally got it to boot into setup and it tells me the system is missing so it cannot reinstall. what do i need to do next? it originally had vista and she upgraded to windows 7. do i need to get her vista disk in order to reinstall. right now when it asks where do want to download there are no options.
you need to restore media to start over. dell does offer the downloads if they are missing on some machines. you might have to call it in. here's an example -&gt;  sorry to read it's being difficult but nothing seems out of the ordinary so far (failing drives, missing restore media, etc.) bob
i understand and i know what to do now but the cd will not eject so i can load the os cd. there is no where to stick a paper clip to manually eject. any solutions??
looks as if the drive is dead. ok to use a knife or such to pry the plastic cover off the cd tray (part that comes out when ejecting the cd disc) to get you fingers on it to pull on it and thus get the tray to open manually. if broken.... the cd drive is getting power to it, right? ensure it does have power before you attempt this. does it appear to try to open, but won't?
here's a link about it.  paper clip not included, bob
it is a touch cd and it did open once but nothing after that. the drive is good because it will load the cd in it which does me no good because it is the wrong cd. there is no pinhole in which to stick a paper clip into. this model does not come with one. that was the first thing i looked for. i took the cd drive out and still cannot get it out.
this would be the first dell i've heard of without a manual eject. too bad the exact models of the dell, the drive are not in the discussion. with the details i could look for pictures or more. bob
it is a dell hybrid 2yxjth1 service tag. you can check it out on the dell site and let me know.
i read this about dell's update to that drive's firmware. &quot;fixes:to fix the &quot;can not eject failure in stand-by mode in case pushing eject button once&quot;.&quot;
but it is time to look for the eject pin hole on the face of the drive. bob
