i recently took apart my pc to clean the inside it was a bit of a mess. i put it all back together and changed the ide cables as they were causing some problems. for a while i could not use any form of disc not even cd roms. since i changed the ide cable cd roms will work but still not dvd discs. when i say dvd's i dont mean dvd format, just any dvd disc including ones that i have used to back up files. i get the following message in event viewer. the driver has detected a controller error on device 0. my hard drive and dvd drive are on separate ide cables but both are using the master connection. could someone explain where the controller is and what is its function? im assuming its on the mother board. i built my machine about 2 years ago and not really had any problems. except from time to time i am unable to boot untill i switch my psu on and off several times. this has been happening much more frequently recently. i did have to change my board before when it failed to work for that reason. asus a8r mvp 32 delux amd 4000+ cannot remeber my dvd drive or my hard disc models. i will post more info soon if necessary
is to replace the dvd drive. they're so cheap that it's not really worth troubleshooting.
&quot;i am unable to boot untill i switch my psu on and off several times. this has been happening much more frequently recently. i did have to change my board before when it failed to work for that reason.&quot; this issue is usually traced to a few items. try cmos battery, power supply and motherboard. bob
ok thanks, ill try a new cmos battery but i doubt its that as this problem has been persistant with 2 boards and when i try boot it dosnt even get as far as the post screen, which totally cuts out the cmos, i could possibly try flashing the bios when i get my net up and running again. unfortunately i dont have a case speaker which makes matters worse. im tempted to say that the booting problem lies with my psu. as for my dvd drive, buying a new one would be the easier alternative but id rather find out what is causing this problem. could someone explain where the controller is located. is it on the board or the dvd drive itself? and what is its specific funtion? cheers spoon
a failing ide device will stop systems from booting. -&gt; let me ask this. if unplugging or replacing said drive fixes this, are you asking to dive deeper into the failure beyond a bad drive? bob
good point, my sister has a spare dvd drive which i will try tommorow, ill try unplugging it tonight to see if it resolves these issues and ill get back to you tommorow. and yes i would like to know everything possible as i am still learning. to get to the root of the problem rather than just replacing and forgetting. thanks mate. spoon
the root of the problem today stops at the dvd drive due to the costs involved of troubleshooting it deeper than that. if you wish to go beyond that and look at this deeper you would be researching how the ide bus works, the bios source code on initializing said bus, the use of oscilloscopes and more diagnostic equipment. most of us will just replace the unit since the time spent on troubleshooting a dead drive is not worth it. bob
