i installed 512k ram yesterday and did not have the chip in totally. long story short, when i turned it back on smoke started to come from the motherboard. i unplugged it immediately and after a few more tries got it fully in and it turned on with no problem. those few tries involved some beeping and a few odd sounds. so it worked fine last night and this morning i was listening to internet radio and it just turned off. i restarted and ten minutes later the screen turned multi-colored. i started it again and backed up what i could and left it defragging this am. am i totally screwed? my comp is only 6 months old but i had no idea you could fry your mb by not putting the chip in fully. i was fully grounded. i thought that was the only concern. am i out the money?
yes, this can be costly. but in most cases, if a desktop, repair can be just the motherboard and/or cpu. the reason why an incorrectly inserted board or part can fry components is simple. power is on some of the pins and the partial/incorrectly inserted part can send power to pins that can't take power. a tactical error on your part is to run defrag on a possibly damaged machine. this is a great test of the hardware, but can result in a scrambled hard disk. installing the os can outstrip most user skills. best of luck in your repairs. bob
&quot;defrag..this is a great test of the hardware, but can result in a scrambled hard disk. installing the os can outstrip most user skills.&quot; well...too late now. that really sux! what does installing the os do? i did not quite understand your comment. should i do that? like a restore?
your response shows that dealing with scrambled hard disk contents may outstrip your current pc repair skills. in short, installing an os is a series of steps that for microsoft windows is vaguely documented and doesn't seem to be repeatable across your machine and others. in the end, the result is usually you flip the machine on and you see &quot;windows.&quot; or the os you elected to install... what you do next depends on what you need to do and your capability. in your first post, it was unclear if the machine finally died. bob
does it still work? yes. sorry, i left it still on this am defragging. it has come back on each time i tried. so it is working as far as i left it two hrs ago. i am extremely inexperienced. i had installed ram before but i guess you can't win them all. so istalling a new mb would be a bad idea for me, yes? well, if i continue to use it until i can get someone to look at it am i causing furthur damage. should i just leave it off?
in no uncertain words, i would not put a stick into a machine i am not willing to sacrifice to test the stick... if the machine works, then you can just use it. my note about defragging being a dangerous idea swirls around other people that had bad ram and during defragmenting (with known bad ram) they ended up with a nonbooting system. after such problems, defragging is best just put off till you know the system is healthy. bob
well, i know i am in over my head here. i would have no worries if it had not shut off(once it went blank and once the screen scrambled) twice within ten minutes this morning. yes, it restarted each time, but i figure it will keep shutting off sporadically. so i have read that you take each card out except video and test the computer to find out if it is the mb or a card you fried. maybe i should find an expert to look at it. but a new dell 2400 cost about $350. would it be worth it to buy a new mb and have it installed professionally? testing ram? btw, i never knew you had to test ram . i had an old system around the house but it wasn't the same so i figured the ram would not work in it. i got it from crucial so i figured it would be good ram. maybe good ram, bad operator....
that's where shops and people with spare parts have it over the average owner. they can swap an item out and see if that's it. as to testing ram, my comment was what to do with that stick. i rarely have to test new ram and in fact, don't. my comment was that if a stick of ram was subjected to such an event, then i would not want to try it in another machine unless it was a guinea pig or shop special that we use to test parts in. usually its some offbeat lintball of parts that if it smokes, we haven't lost anything of value. at 350 bucks, you will find it difficult to beat that if the motherboard and cpu is toast and you have to pay the tech and shop fees as well. in the meantime, pull the cover off and make sure the cpu heatsink is in place and all fans are spinning... bob
.;
&quot;in the meantime, pull the cover off and make sure the cpu heatsink is in place and all fans are spinning...&quot; ok, what is the heatsink? i know where the fan is and can check that. btw, could i use hardware like cd-rw drive, floppy drive, etc in my new machine. or are they damaged? thank you for helping me out.
i have a question for r. profit regarding defragging. what about third party defrag programs like voptme or diskkeeper (any version) would you recommend defrag only after system is working normally. i'm curious as to how this affects a system in a bad way.
my note about defragging on a suspect or damaged pc is not what i find to be an issue with normal machines. i note it since i've seem people report a memory error, then they defragment and we never see them again... bob
bob
