i just put my system together with an asus ma3790t-deluxe mb and an amd phenom 9950 (125 watt). i thought i could get by with an older atx power supply and was just using a 4 pin input on the 8 pin socket and my cpu fan is not running. i can get into the bios and such but do not want to run the machine for long because i can see the cpu temp rising in the hardware monitor. i tried plugging in two 4-pin atx jacks to the socket but they did not fit cleanly and the concept made me queasy to begin with (is this something to avoid?) i'm guessing/hoping that this is due to the lack of an 8 pin atx input on that socket (documentation does specifically note that this should be used). i have a new atx 12 v v2 power supply coming in two days but want to be sure i have a backup plan if that is not the case. my question is whether it is reasonable to assume that the power supply is the reason the cpu fan is not working. is is possible that the cpu fan power jack has a problem (mb was an open box item on newegg...)? is it an issue with the heat sink, perhaps (and can i swap out my heat sink for my amd 2 to check)? further, if the new power supply does not resolve the problem, is there an alternate cpu heat sink that would run off of a 4 pin atx connector? this would seem like a reasonable workaround.
open box from newegg, you take your chances and must be aware of correction based on your knowledge. it could already be damaged when you received it or simply not having all the goodies that came in the box, like cd, or cables, etc.. if it fails after all is said and done, return it??? if possible. as for connections, they are not a mystery. if you have to force or somehow guess, then either you lack the proper connections due to an old psu or too old period. wait, until the new psu comes, you may cause damage and become clueless or few options to recover. yes, newer psu have various connections and some &quot;don't get used&quot; as they are for intel type or multiple similar connects like for video power. you have to be sure. when you get new psu, come back with results. if no manual, get one form the mtrbd. support website and d/l it for that model#. tada -----willy
well, i got another tip to plug the cpu fan into the power fan connector on the motherboard to test if it was the heat sink unit. this powers the fan and lets me run the box. i'm still curious if the 8 pin connector will resolve the issue with the proper connector and will post an update on that. if it does not (which would mean the cpu fan connector is defective), i can live without the fan speed throttling that the cpu fan connector would enable. i would like to invest in more exotic cooling mechanisms down the line anyhow. i'm curious though, currently i get a warning on bootup &quot;cpu fan error!&quot; not having clean boots could get annoying. how do other cpu cooling devices (like water or oil immersion) work? would they plug into the cpu fan connector to resolve this? there may also be a bios setting that i can change to fix this. i'll update this thread with the 8-pin connector results. thanks to willy for the advice!
