problem with a printer here. compaq ij1200 printer running on win2000 pro. every time i try to print something, only half of it shows up on the page with the other half of the page being blank..... in the sense that the entire picture seems to be &quot;moved&quot; to one side so much that half of it gets literally cut off. printing quality is fine. the alignment has been done and the test page prints fine as well. it worked ok on the same computer while running winme - the problem has only occured upon installation of win2000 pro. any ideas? chris
the missing item in your post is what you were printing. if you are printing an internet web page, then i can't help you. that issue swirls around the lack of printing in the world wide web consortium and specifications at  and is currently in committee. tell more. bob
this happens with picture files in the windows explorer..... jpg, gif, etc.. i haven't tried printing a web page and i'm not sure about txt files (although the test page prints fine). this is a problem on my dad's computer - he prints a lot of pictures. i tried a number of them and it happens every single time. actually, it not only happens when trying to print pictures straight out of the windows explorer, but also when trying to print from a special program for scanning pictures, editing them, and so on. to explain it again... when printing a picture, it should be right in the middle of the printing page. but it ends up being shifted to the side, so that half of it is &quot;out of bounderies&quot; of the page and obviously gets cut off (while the closer half is right by the edge). chris
but all the gritty details are missing. os, printer model, if you uninstalled and reinstalled the printer driver, set printer driver to &quot;defaults&quot;, checked the paper size and margins in the printer properties. you get the idea. all that is known is what you've told... tell more. bob
did you try updating with w2k drivers? you might try going to microsoft and checking hcl ( hardware compatability list )
in the original post i specified that it was the compaq ij1200 printer running on win2000 pro. i also said that the printer worked fine (with the same drivers) when winme was installed on the same computer a little while back. i reinstalled the driver, everything is set to default, paper size and margins are also ok. the weird thing is that the test page prints fine. if something was wrong in the settings, wouldn't the test page be printed incorrectly as well? maybe i've missed something. i just thought that maybe if someone here came across this problem in the past, they'd have an answer. i don't know what else to tell you. chris
all the windows updates are done - is that what you meant? i don't see that particular model on the hcl list, but i see another one from the series - ij650. shouldn't ij1200 run also then? chris
such as notepad. double check the margins in the application since they can be amiss. yes, sometimes i miss the items in the post. bob
sorry for any confusion. it should. have you updated with windows 2000 printer drivers? check compaq's web site to see if you have the correct driver or need an updated driver for your printer.
alright..... i printed a large .txt file and it came out ok (9 pages in total - no flaws). i checked the margins and they're good. i also tried another .jpg picture and it came out all screwed up again. this seems to be only affecting picture files. weird. i think i'm going to contact compaq and if they don't have an answer, out the window the printer goes. chris
my dad had an old backup of the last printer drivers and so i re-installed them (2 times already) - but it didn't help. i'm going to download those same ones myself - maybe his copy is corrupt or something. may as well try that, since i'm running out of ideas. and i'm going to contact compaq. maybe they know what's going on, since they made the thing. thanks for the driver suggestion/reminder. chris
your posts don't tell what applications. wish they were a bit more complete. bob
hey, bob, what's with the &quot;no further replies to this post will be accepted.&quot; to your last post? i'm posting my reply to you here. what do you mean about &quot;each application can have margins&quot;. if i am opening up windows explorer to find a .jpg in there, then right-click on it to print it out..... how do you set a margin for that? it's automatic. i don't quiet understand what you mean. when i said that i checked the margins, i meant in control panel -&gt; printers -&gt; printer model -&gt; the options for it. chris
the forum software limits the depth of the replies. always have. now that you have revealed in good detail how you are printing, instead open the jpeg and print from an application. i see we are inching towards the fix, but do keep trying. bob
this discussion notes one cure. read reply #3. microsoft doesn't tell us why this may work. bob
