hi all-- i picked up a new laptop and am trying to add it to my home wireless network. with much frustration. the network works fine; it's a belkin 7320-4 router extended with an apple airport express. due to the airport and my lack of neighbors, the network is unsecured. it's set up for dhcp, and is running in b/g mode. the following machines are working fine with this setup: one xp home laptop with a broadcom integrated b/g nic (circa 2003) one xp home desktop with a belkin b/g pci card (circa 2005) one xp home desktop with a belkin b/g pci card circa 2006) and has successfully allowed at least a dozen other mac and pc laptops to connect over the last two or so years it's been in place--never an issue before. here's where it gets weird. the new notebook is a compaq presario v6000 notebook running xp pro and with a broadcom b/g integrated wireless card. when i attempt to use this machine in my network strange things happen. at best, the machine has difficulty connecting to the network, either using dhcp or manually entering its ip info. it will show connected, but only intermittently get to the internet, and while other pcs in its workgroup can see the machine as a workgroup member, they can't get to any of its shared folders. running ip config shows the wireless is getting an address from the router, and it looks correct. if i run repair connection at this time, i may or may not get an ip via dhcp, though windows shows connected at 24mbps or better. stranger still, the unit will knock other pcs off the network, even though it's not trying to use a previously assigned ip address, and it seems to be causing interference with the other machines on the network. as soon as i turn off the radio on the presario, the network works as expected. i've moved the notebook around to a few different locations, and this doesn't seem to affect the problem. i've tried a couple different things within the advanced section of the configuration panel of the broadcom (turned off bluetooth collaboration, turned off afterburner), but this hasn't made a difference. stranger still, if i try the machine on my work's network, everything just seems to work fine, so it appears to not be a defective card. any suggestions? thanks.
also i assume your network is something like workgroup, and all the machines have this in common.
yes, all have the same workgroup assigned, and all machines have unique names.
try to only enable 802.11g on the router and all computers/labtops. if you have a mixed network, the network throughput might be dropped to half or more if there are 802.11g and 802.11b wireless clients in the network. try to tune the wireless adapter settings on that compaq computer and see how it works. also the wireless bandwidth is shared among wireless clients, the more clients you have the slower the network. hope this helps.. :o) picohat
thanks for the suggestions...i tried changing the base station and repeater to g only, but this made no difference to the performance of the laptop. i'm beginning to think there's an incompatibility between my base station (belkin f5d7230-4, revision a) and my laptop's card, a broadcom 4311 mini pci-e card. same one as is used by dell under the name 1410 (if memory serves). at this stage, no communication takes place between the two devices. i cannot get an ip via dhcp, and no activity occurs on the wlan light on the belkin when i try to 'repair connection' via windows. the broadcom does see the belkin though, at 5 bars / 54mbps strength, and a different machine using an older broadcom chip wirelessly is connected via dhcp, and is screaming. should also add that the troubled machine has no issues whatsoever connecting via ethernet, and is also fine wirelessly in another network. thanks!
been a while, thought i'd post a followup.... i've been using the laptop wired for a couple weeks with what i thought were no issues...turns out i'd just not been using it at the same time as my wife. it seems, even with the radio switched off, just having the laptop powered up was knocking her machine off the wireless network. to make matters more surreal, i physically removed the wireless card from the machine--just having it powered up knocks her off the network. to be fair, the laptop is only a couple feet from the wireless ap, and is probably causing some interference; when i get a chance to try relocating things i'll give it another go. wanted to ask if anybody's seen this kind of behavior before. i know things like microwaves/flourescent lights/cordless phones can all mess with 802.11x traffic, so i suppose a cpu could too if its chassis were poorly shielded, and its clock were close to the 2.4ghz range. again, this is a dual-core amd machine running at a 1.6ghz clock speed. if you've seen this kind of behavior before, what did you do to resolve the issue? (will also try changing channels on the router and repeater)
i would focus on the router and extender as most probable cause. first, ensure you have the latest router firmware. reset the router to factory default config and shut off the airport extender to see if problem still exists.
you were right, it's the laptop interfering with the router...i had reset the router and updated firmware, to no avail....when i realized i didn't even need to have the wireless card in the unit to cause the problem, interference as the source of the problem came clear. so, and this hurts, the easy fix: i changed channels to 11 from 1 on the ap and extender and it solved the problem. looks like the combination of 1.6 ghz cpu clocking + the lot of 'other' clocking in the laptop generates hash into the 2.4ghz signal of the ap. moving the network signal moving higher into the spectrum took care of it. let's hope none of my neighbors go gung ho on channel 11 thanks to everybody!
