so i have a dell computer and a lcd acer monitor. i was useing a dvi-d cable but switched out computers. now i have the dell and im useing a vga cable but it says i have no signal. i most likely need to change the input to vga but i dont know how. the few buttons that are on my monitor dont do anything cuz i have no signal. any suggestions
there are many hundred displays and to look at this i need the model number so i can go get the manual. then again you could supply that link. bob
x223w
the second hit was  clicking on the faq (frequently asked questions) on the top tab bar i see this. &quot;how do i switch between the vga and dvi input signals on my monitor?&quot; acer writes there:  &quot;how do i switch between the vga and dvi input signals on my monitor? how do i switch between the vga and dvi input signals on my monitor? if you have one or more devices connected to your monitor you can switch between the vga and dvi input signals. to switch between the vga and dvi input signals follow the steps below: on the lower bezel of your monitor, press the menu button to enter the onscreen menu. use the arrow buttons to navigate to the image icon and press the menu button to enter the submenu. select the input signal and press the menu button to confirm. use the arrow buttons to navigate to the exit icon, and then press the menu button to save and exit. &quot; there is a graphic icon there i can't put in this forum. bob
i followed the steps listed and when i try to enter the submenu under image by pressing menu nothing happens. this is what i see in the submenu: 1680x1050 h: 64khz v: 60hz digital input then my s/n # - i even tried switching the digital input to analog which did nothing.
i am left to guess that someone used a dvi to vga adapter. it's not noted so far. bob
ok so my last reply was actually false. i was under the wrong option. i double cheked and i followed the steps the right way this time, and i entered the submenu and switched the input from digital to analog and the screen goes black for about 2sec and then goes right back to digital. almost as if i dont have an avg cable connected. any ideas?
more clues please.
