do you like it? is it easy? is it worth it? how much data does it hold? any problems with it? haven't heard of it, click link for general information:
home built amd 2 ghz, a gig of ram, a 60 gig master and a 160 gig slave running xp pro. turned on file and printer sharing, added a gigabyte nic for my d-link gigabyte router, and voila. all my pcs, four, have gigabyte nics. the 160 is for &quot;stuff&quot;, and the 60 has my web site on it. wayne click here to see the cnet faces, learn a little about analog and digital data, internet connections, spyware removal, and download free software. character - doing the right thing when no one is looking.
are you running your web page/site out of your home? is your site a dsn? is it hosted? do you have to route through a ip? questions about telephony on your site are you talking about telephony or tell a phony? if telephony can this technology be used to improve an ip connection? i was tinkering with this some time ago seems like it should be able to increase the link speed. i was running a 56k connection at the time currently i'd using dsl. i'm pretty sure it will not work with dsl because of multiplexing. isn't there a link between it and hyperthread technologies?
web site is on the server. i have my domain name, in my signature, and it points to my comcast ip address. i have a router with dmz open on one port connected to the server. i use a d-link dir-655 gigabit/wireless b/g/n router. i like the d-link because it has incoming filter settings. if someone (and it has happened before) tries to slam my site i can block their specific ip address. dial-up service has gone as far as it can go because of copper cable pair technology. it won't get any better. also because the fcc regulates the strength of the signal hitting the psn (public switched network). any stronger signal (to get a faster speed) would bleed over into adjacent cable pairs causing cross-talk. not understanding your last question. wayne click here to see the cnet faces, learn a little about analog and digital data, internet connections, spyware removal, and download free software. character - doing the right thing when no one is looking.
i did some additional searching about the dmz. i had not heard of this technology before. now i know. again thanks.
