hi, i have never purchased external hard drive and have no knowledge in this area. that's the reason i am here &gt; actually, my requirement is as follows: i am looking for a 100-150 gb hard drive in which i can save personal data. i will be carrying it with me most of the time, therefore, it should be &quot;rough and tough&quot; hardware. connecting with my notebook just to swap [copy-paste] data between laptop hard disk to external hard drive. i mean, not connecting for long time, max connection time will be an hr. personally preferring that it has strong enclosure, so to avoid any jerks or fell down effect on hard drive. and a fan to make it remain cool. i will be connecting it with compaq nx7300 intel core2 duo, xp professional notebook. please advise which is the best one to go for? thanks! bye, viki.
and will eventually fail. maintain your backups as you always have. -&gt; try these:  bob
you can decide which mfgs to exclude. might be worthwhile putting some of your important ...can't afford to lose data on dvds. vapcmd
lacie rugged looks good, specially with rubber to avoid shocks. what about maxtor onetouch 4 mini and seagate freeagent go? any idea about this? bye, viki.
why would we compare those?
actually, to be honest, i have no idea in hard disk world. specially, external drives 2.5''. in 2002 i bought 40gb barracuda iv 7200 rpm. and it was recommended on internet and had good review rating those days. i found it very good! similarly, i find some good rating for maxtor and segate freeagent go on iinternet. that's the reason i asked for either one. well, do lacie has internal fan? and what is global rating of it? your help/guidence is highly appreciated! thanks. bye, viki.
i find a good external case, aluminum for heat dissipation, and with a fan. then i add a seagate pmr (perpendicular magnet recording) drive, my latest is a seagate 450 gig pmr drive. pmr because it's faster than the lineal recording drives. all my other internal drives in my three pcs have been upgraded to seagate pmrs. i don't like the complete drives because of the extra bells and whistles that can cause problems. i just use the drive as a temporary backup. every so often i burn my backups to dvd media. pmr speed, as my own tests. i download video files ranging from 800 mb to 1 gig in size, and move them to my home server for storage. with my old seagate lmr drives a one gig video file across my gigabit network would take between two and three minutes. since i have upgraded all my drives to pmr, the same size file takes 45 seconds or less. 'nuff said about pmr. wayne click here to see the cnet faces, learn a little about analog and digital data, internet connections, spyware removal, and download free software. my mini-schnauzer is smarter than your honor student.
there are very few models that fit your initial spec. if you want to change that and your price point then i'd start another discussion.
wayne: thank you for sharing your experience. the difference b/w pmr and lmr you mentioned really matters. i am not sure whether pmr comes in 2.5'' (laptop hard drive)? proffitt: what you want me to change in my req. specs? by rough & tough i simply mean: the hardware (enclosure and disk itself) should not be delicate. the best e.g i can give is of nokia 3310 model. i dropped down 3310 many times (free fall), but it always worked better than before . i am not saying, hard disk should possess same attributes as of 3310, but at least designed and tested for handling jerks, free fall and other physical external force. my range is 100-150$. this could go up as most as 200$, but in very rare/exceptional case. just to reiterate, i m looking for 100-150gb storage. i thank you for your recommendations and help. bye, viki.
i'm taking the view of how many employees treat the equipment. only those units i noted meet the rough and tough as you asked. -&gt; for those that don't abuse the drives i suggest you shop for a drive case and then put a drive into it. not much harder than changing some lightbulbs. bob
$150 is a very practical range esp if u shop at newegg.com (great service. a lot of free shipping. no hassle awesome return policy. they sell oems tho). anyway i know apricorn and seagate are good companies. i heard about lacie being good but i never see one first hand. just dont get maxtor. but my real suggestion is... use of an external encloser. get an aluminum enclosure with a fan from mapower and a good seagate internal harddrive and ur ready to go. think it'd be a bigger bang for the buck too and not as much bucks lol. hope this helps.
