i appologize if these questions seem trivial, but i have no experience with raid and i was not able to find the answers by searching. i have a 13&quot; macbook pro running osx snow leopard with a 250 gb internal hard drive. i have a 500 gb external wd my passport studio with two partitions, time machine and storage, which i connect using firewire 800. i keep all my large files on the storage partition, and do not have room to back these files up. the drive is almost full, and i am interested in setting up a 2 tb raid-1 configuration (2 x 2tb drives mirrored). i only connect my external hard drive periodically for time machine backups. if i need something from the external drive i just connect and transfer it when needed. i do not leave my hard drive connected most of the time. 1. what is the difference between hardware raid and software raid? what is best for my application? 2. should i use a single enclosure or two separate external hard drives? 3. what is network attached storeage, and is it right for my application? (i only have an airport express router so i guess i would need to connect it using a hardwire ethernet cable) 4. can you please suggest specific hardware that i will need to accomplish your recommended solution? thank you all in advance, any advice you can give is appreciated even if you can not answer all of my questions.
raid 1 mirrors so if the user deletes a pack of files then both are gone. if a trojan or oops happens, both are gone. this is not about safety or avoiding backup. i strongly suggest you tell what the goal is since it can't be about safety of the files. bob
my goal is to replace my current 500 gb external hard drive because it is getting full. i feel that 2 tb will be sufficient and i would like any connection type faster than usb 2.0. i need this external storage to do 2 things (2 partitions): store time machine backups, and store my large files that would clog up my laptop's hard drive. i would like to have raid 1 so that i have a backup for the large files which are only saved on the external storage, in case one external drive failed. like i said, i have no experience with raid. if you know of another way to accomplish these goals please let me know.
edit: i know having raid 1 for time machine is redundant. i am only worried about the other partition.
&quot;i would like to have raid 1 so that i have a backup for the large files which are only saved on the external storage, in case one external drive failed.&quot; i know this is hard to process but here goes. with raid 1, that is not a backup system for many common scenarios. the most common reason for loss is the old delete key. raid 1 automatically deletes both copies so no backup there. if there is file corruption raid 1 automatically corrupts both copies. raid 1 does not seem to address your goals. what could address your goal is a simple second volume that on some schedule is sync'd with the first volume. that way any delete takes time to propagate to the backup rather than instant deletions. as presented, raid 1 is not of any use here. bob
ok.. i like that idea. what is the best way to accomplish a periodic backup? do i just copy the entire hd over to the 'backup hd' once in a while? or can you suggest another way? also, is there a way to connect directly from hd-to-backup-hd? i only have one firewire 800 port and would prefer to avoid transferring files from one hd through firewire to computer then from computer through usb to the backup hd.
there are many software sync solutions out there. the raid 1 solution is very narrow in what it solves and after watching it fail the owners over the years i have to ask questions about the goals and what they are trying to solve. i think you have thought it over and see where raid 1 fails us. for the pc we have sync software solutions aplenty so you can do more research on that. i use syncback and since only the changes get copied, it's not a lot of work. for the apple there is fsync, folder sync, and the list never seems to end such as  now that's a backup. if you have a drive fail, the other is ready with its copy. if you delete a file, the spare is still there. if i save a word document on top of another with the wrong name, i'm covered. now that's backup. bob
thanks for all your help, bob. i really appreciate it. raid 1 is definitely not the best solution for what i want to accomplish. it sounds like i have no choice but to connect both hd's to my laptop (meaning one firewire and one usb). is this correct?
today we have more choices and each has speeds matching the connections but we have usb , firewire, ethernet, wifi and what else? since even a simple server could autosync these i'll share i tried that and now have settled to a netbook as a server. i tried various computers over the years but most would draw 100+ watts. today i have a simple netbook and it runs under 10 watts after the screen goes out. how do i know? i put it on a watt meter. so here's my home grown solution. a netbook with a big for today 1.5tb usb hard drive over wifi and in a remote place of the house then syncback to that from the work machine. bob
i was looking at this:  it looks like the &quot;standard&quot; configuration would work for my application where it creates two separate hard drives. this is probably a stupid question, but can i connect directly from my laptop to the enclosure with an ethernet cable? my airport express does not have an available rj-45 port.
and while someone might get this to work, the trouble of setup has me write i'd just get some usb case. bob
i'm just looking for higher transfer speeds. i can live with usb, but when transferring files even firewire 800 seems slow.
but the setup headache is one i would not place on the average user. and we all know how much support you get for a 99 buck unit. bob
