about 2 weeks ago my cpu suddenly started freezing. it would click 1 time and freeze. i installed speed fan and looked in the bios and it was reading 75c. so i took it almost completely apart and cleaned everything. i cleaned the heatsink and reapplied thermal paste. it still would click 1 time and freeze and was still hot at 71c. a few days after that it started completely shuting down on top of the click and freeze. the only way to get it to turn back on after it would shutdown is to flip the power supply switch to the other side and back. then i noticed the next day that it reads 71c to 75c in both sf and the bios as soon as i turn it on. the heat sink is set on correctly. the processor is the only thing showing hot besides the acpi thermal zone which allways shows the same temp. i have had it for for 4 years and never had a problem. ohh yea, the fans are working fine. help! &gt; processor : amd athlon xp &gt;&gt; general information type : amd athlon xp internal specification : amd athlon(tm) xp 2500+ codename : barton revision : a2 technology : 0.13 cpu id : 6.a.0 cpu idex : 7.a.0 top : bottom
amd cpus don't take well to &quot;over temp&quot; operation. it may have already failed and is not going to get better. you've reached a tipping point until you can cool it better. imho, it needs to be replaced, its probably succumbed to heat damage. however, you must be sure the heat compound is applied correctly, not too much or too little. though, you only need a small amount to do the job. check this out:  (good info) if you throttle down the amd 2500+ to say 2000+ cpu instead, it recognized that way, it may not overheat too quickly and really test it. if it lasts longer before a freeze, its the cpu. you can try a better hsf setup that better at cooling as well and see if it handles it better. also, the socket itself may have &quot;crystallized&quot; causing intermittent contact/operation so only a new mtrbd. instead of cpu. tada -----willy
i was thinking the cpu was going bad i just wanted to hear it from someone else before i spent money on the wrong thing.
it would be the 1st step, however as always, its a logical procedure should it not be the problem. the other candidates are weak psu and/or mtrbd., also possible bad ram. reseat the ram and/or use less if more than 1 stick present. also, are there any beep sequence or error message, maybe a beeping sequence then? if not, then the cpu again. good luck -----willy
no there is no error messages or beeping sequence.
with each core showing 23 or below at idle. cooler is stock. ambient is 70f. what's the cpu voltage ? sure the hs is flat and making good contact ? vapcmd
