hello guys, i have an lg external hard disk portable 2.5, its light is working but the disk is not working and not being recognized by windows. first i tried it on windows 7 and it didn't work and i thought that the problem is from win 7. then i tried it on win xp =&gt; same problem. i will answer some common qs: what kind of computer are you attaching it to? desktop what os is this computer running? win7/ win xp how is the external drive formatted? n/a did it work recently? yes when was the last time it worked? n/a did anything change? n/a does it show up on another computer? no how are you connecting it - usb? usb if you go to disk management (start, run, compmgmt.msc, disk management), what does it show? does it show in the device manager (same section, but device manager instead of disk management)? it doesn't show the disk anything at all. kindly advice. ala
sounds like the usual failures. these are usually usb powered so i carry in my kit bag a usb &quot;y&quot; cable to get more power to such drives. and it is very important on laptops to be on ac power when using such things. for desktops be sure to try the rear usb ports (which have more power and something else i will skip discussing.) if that fails don't panic yet. order a new usb enclosure and move the drive to the new enclosure if you must save your files. if you fret about the warranty then exercise that but your files won't be coming back! bob
my usb cable has on port not dual. i tried to connect it to the rear ports but no luck. i think i'll have to replace the cable or try another enclosure. thank u so much for the fast response. i really appreciate it. regards, ala
dear ala here are the question the problem happened to my lg external hard disk what kind of computer are you attaching it to? - laptop what os is this computer running? win7 - window 7 how is the external drive formatted? n/a -i have never formatted it did it work recently? yes -yes when was the last time it worked? yesterday 27. feb. 11 did anything change? - yes does it show up on another computer? - no how are you connecting it - usb if you go to disk management (start, run, compmgmt.msc, disk management), what does it show? does it show in the device manager (same section, but device manager instead of disk management)? it doesn't show the disk anything at all.
