if sombody was offering you wireless internet avilable to you from abywhere in the world without wires, how much would you pay? i am on a web site  and there saying for $80 per month i can get internet anywhere is it worth it (2.4 mbps) thanks to all
your subject title is far too generic and doesn't say much. take a few more seconds to craft a subject title that tells what's inside. bob
f sombody was offering you wireless internet avilable to you from abywhere in the world without wires, how much would you pay? i am on a web site  and there saying for $80 per month i can get internet anywhere is it worth it (2.4 mbps) thanks to all posted by: shimi posted on: 03/14/2004 2:57 pm
you're already in the networking and wireless forum. so that subject title is still rather terse and doesn't reveal much. as to your question, are you buying such? bob
that is what i am trying to find out, 1) what company offer this 2) what is considerd a good price for unlimited amount of data
&quot;that is what i am trying to find out,&quot; 1) what company offer this from your first post: &quot;if sombody was offering you wireless internet avilable to you from abywhere in the world without wires, how much would you pay? i am on a web site  and there saying for $80 per month i can get internet anywhere is it worth it (2.4 mbps)&quot; that seems to be sprint. 2) what is considerd a good price for unlimited amount of data from your first post, the rate they seem to be getting is $80 per month. bob
dear bob, i understand you are trying to be helpful... but you are not. for a matter of fact you are being quite rude. not one of your replies helped me with my question. only criticism. i do not need somebody pointing out to me what i did wrong. if you are that offended about how i posted my question, what my topic is please be like my wife and criticize me. other wise please get off my case about how my topic line is, (you men chained it twice, i got it the 1st time) and how i answered my question... regarding that, i was wondering if that was a good way to go. every time you tried to help, you wasted my time. because you did not help you just kept on nagging- even if you tried to answer my question i consider that nice, but you did not even do that.... ps, you once tried to help me out, but i actually had to pay $15,000 more, so if this man tries to recommend a place don't listen because your going to end up paying more- allot more sincerely - mike i invite anybody with an opinion on this please call me, and if you have any questions on any of the facts i posted please call 1-877-571-0403
your question is on a low volume forum. i see about 4 people come by about weekly. maybe you need to craft a web site and ask people to take your poll. i've read a few posts that might be yours and it all seems to revolve around some kind of internet data access that is today either not implemented everywhere or will be fairly expensive in most places. your constant posting with hints here and there but never telling the whole story is interesting. i was hoping that i could draw you out and as such &quot;spill the beans.&quot; building your own data network is very expensive. and some of your statements have shown you are very new to wireless. in no way was this to be rude, but to entice you to tell your story. please tell the whole story. bob
