i just purchased a new maxtor 200 gb usb 2.0 hard drive because my old drive was going to crash. i transfered all of my files to the external drive and everything went fine. i then installed a new internal hard drive and set up windows. i loaded up the software for the maxtor hd and everything was installed but the drive isn't showing up in my computer. i set it up in disk management but when i try to double click the drive it says that it's not formatted, do i want to format now. what do i do? i don't want to have to reconnect the old drive and transer stuff over again. is there something i did wrong?
over 127gb drives until you apply service packs. don't format or even attach such a drive to avoid this trouble until the service pack and all drivers are installed. bob ps. more details at
i forgot...im running windows xp i haven't done anything to the external drive yet....it's just sitting there i assigned it to drive f: but i didn't do any formatting right now im still running service pack 1 (original windows xp) so in order to get the data off the external drive i have to upgrade to service pack 2?
we need motherboard drivers. i don't see any mention of hardware details so i can't offer much more. bob
im running 2.2 ghz, 512 ram with windows sp 1 the motherboard must support it because the drive worked when i transferred my files from the old drive to the external so i'm just confused as to why this is happening now
with no make/model of the motherboard i can't comment if drivers are required. it's a common problem and could be easy to solve. use  as well as google.com to find belarc advisor, everest to identify your machine's parts. best of luck, bob
hey bob, i downloaded belarc advisor and here is the make and model for the board board: dell computer corporation 07w080 a00 where exactly do i go from here?
i just checked and the file system on the external drive is raw...shouldn't it be ntfs?
lists other items such as assigning a drive letter, connection to the rear usb ports and more. since you have a dell, use dell's drivers for your machine. installation of said drivers are not automatic. bob
