ok, well ive had this problem ever since i got a new hard drive, and new install of windows. after i got everything basic done, i installed all my drivers from the cds, for my mobo, gfx card, and hard drive. then i went online, and downloaded updated drivers for everything. but now im having massive problems with my computer in terms of gfx, especially in gaming. used to be i could run all the new source games just fine, long loads yes, but they still ran fine on medium settings. now i can barely run the older half life games, i cant even play dod without tons of lag, and my framerate being shot to hell. i have also experienced other problems, including the icons on the desktop, the semi-transparent area around them just comes out as black, so they look jagged and ugly. i also cant watch videos on the internet. i get this green screen instead and my computer slows down horribly. now i have opened up my case, and i have made sure everything was tightened down, i even unhooked my extra hard drives to see if it was too much for my power supply. i am clueless as to whats wrong, but my sister is willing to help me out and buy a few replacement parts. not a full new system like i thought at first, but just things like maybe a new gfx card or power supply. what i need to know is what i need to do, cause i am clueless as to whats wrong. heres my system specs if that helps: gigabyte kt600 k7 triton 400 fsb motherboard amd athlon xp 2200+ 512mb pc2700 corsair memory gainward nvidia geforce fx 5200 128mb creative 24-bit sound card raidmax scorpio atx-868wbp black computer case w\420watts power supply segate 250gb ide hd sony cd-rw sony dvd-rom 8 led case fans im pretty sure thats it. i mean before i installed the new hard drive, i added 2 new fans. other than that i cant think of anything else. any advice would rock!! thanks before hand!!
so that would mean u have the most current nvidia driver? 78.01? try dling it if u dont. if that does does not solve your problem, then its either powersupply or graphics card... could u try the graphics card on a different computer? if it works fine then its ur psu... 420 watt powersupply that came with the case doesnt sound too good...especially with new hard drive, 8 fans, sound card, graphics card, and 2 optical drives gainward also doesnt sound too reputable so it may be your graphics card too....
power supply calculator:  and life goes on... jack
well i tried that thing, and even with my second hard drive attached, its only at about 310w
i have the newest drivers for everything i dont have another computer to try my other gfx card on, the only other one in my house is my sisters laptop, and i just sold my parts box so i cant build a temp one either. do you think it would work to get a new gfx card and psu? i mean thats not too much, since i have to get agp, i can get a geforce 5500 from a friend, that he never used for about $50, and i can get a 500w psu for around $70, so i can get both of those right now, i just wanted to know if thats what i should do. i wanna make sure its nothing else. because one of the other things ive thought about, is that i used knoppix linux-on-a-cd on my comp. to transfer files off my old hard drive, which the windows on it got fully corrupted. after i finished moving most files, i went to move my fonts over, and i tried going into the windows folder, and it crashed linux. ever since then, my computer has felt slower, like the load of knoppix felt slower. i was thinking the crash might have done something to my ram, since knoppix loads completly in the ram, but i hace no idea, which is why i am asking here
with that power supply but i do know that a ps rated at 400w rarely put out 400w by the time it gets to the mb. they typically lose between 15% and 30%. that puts you in the range. i would get a 500w because you undoubtedly will be adding on stuff later. let us know. and life goes on.... jack
