i am looking to buy a laptop with three antennas capable of 450 mbps speed. 3x3 mimo. the only one i know of is the alienware 17 and 18 inch, which have the killer 1103 wireless card pre-installed and 3 antennas. i think the new macbook pro has an intel centrino ultimate wireless-n 6300. are there any others that anyone knows about? there was a dell e5210 but it is discontinued.
why would you limit your laptop choice when there may be other feature just as important like memory or processor speeds. i would just use a external usb or bridge. in most cases these actually work better because many have external antenna. another advantage is you do not have to worry about how your laptop screen is positioned (the antennas are normally behind the screen). all that said 450m is another magic marketing number. you will only get that in a lab condition and in many cases it will actually make your connection slower. since to get 450m they use the complete 2.4g range. this means if anyone else near you has a wireless router they are 100% guaranteed to interfere with you. your router will try to fix this by changing the speeds and encoding on the fly but this changing is a common cause of dropping and authentication delays.
it's not going to say, give it double the range so why would i not look at the entire machine instead? current models, that is the ones that are not in the cheap category seem just fine on wifi. bob
i use an asus n66u black knight 3x3 stream 450 mbps router and ea66u 3x3 access point now. in order to get full advantage of this speed, i need a laptop with three antennas using either an intel centrino wireless-n 6300 or killer 1103. the only 3x3 mimo laptops i can find are macbook pro and alienware m17 and m18.
even with 3 antennas, it only uses one at a time. it will use the best one and that's why it could work better than some. the real issue would be the cards. if you can't find laptops with compatible cards then you can use external cards. bob
actually what he is talking about is a option that actually has 3 separate transmitters. a lot of the early routers were running other variants of mimo have to read the fine print. lots of technical arguments about if it really makes any difference or not. i can see why many laptops do not have this since it has to eat 3 times the power to run 3 radio units.
as ideas come and go, it's like that super duper device you had back on cp/m and you fast forward to now and no one knows what to do with it or how it worked. since 3 radios would be more cost as well as the heat, it probably fell out of favor as higher rate 802.11n came along that was more a standard than a 3 radio solution. maybe it's time to move to today's solutions or when high speed is needed, get wired. i know i get wired when i want to move big files (the laptops here have 1000bt ports.) bob
