i don't have enough money to buy a new computer. however, i'm looking to save a bit by upgrading my old computer with a new motherboard, processor and ram. the question that i have is whether the new motherboard will fit, will the ports line up? my current case is a big dell desktop case. it's 600 mhz p3. i'm looking to upgrade a p4. will the new motherboard fit and will all the ports line up? also will the power supply be enough? i know that upgrading to a new case, everything will be ok. but keep in mind i'm a poor college student and i need to save a little bit of money for luxuries like food. thanks a lot
''i'm looking to save a bit by upgrading my old computer with a new motherboard, processor and ram.'' if you jump to a p4 system, you will probably also need a new video card if the motherboard doesn't have integrated video, a new psu, and maybe a case fan or two. if you need a new psu, you might consider the bargain of a new case bundle that comes with a psu and an exhaust fan or two. of course, your budget will help you make this decision. really, the only thing keeping you from easily upgrading in your existing case is if dell used nonstandard case, motherboard, and psu. this can be solved, however, by a little modification with a dremel-type power tool. give us some details about your current system: what dell model number? you may benefit from looking atthis discussion:
you may have to spring for that case after all. i don't believe that case will match. upgrading to a p4 usually requires an upgrade to the atx form factor case. the atx standard came about when the p4 was introduced. this allowed all the different case and motherboard manufacturers to standardize their product lines. not to mention power supplies. and speaking of power supplies, (now don't cry) the one you have will not be powerfull enough. which is really a moot point at this juncture. you can pick up a decent case for around $40 w/a power supply. good luck and let us know. and life goes on... jack
thanks for your replies. i've been researching some information about upgrading for the past hour or so. it does seem like getting a new case is the way to go. what level of a psu do i need? 400 watts? 450? i will probably install a p4 3.0 ghz. is getting too high of a wattage bad? for example, if i only needed 350, is using a 450 bad in anyway (other than a few wasted bucks)? thanks again
if you are not intending to add a lot of extras, ie..high-end graphics, two or more hard drives, a few usb devices, high-end processor then a 400w should be the minimum. otherwise get a 500w. excess wattage won't bother the system. and very few power supplies actually get all that power to the motherboard and devices. these values are pretty much the rule of thumb for those of us who build computers. manufacturers will put in the lower wattage units to save money. hope this helps a bit. and life goes on... jack
