if windows really only has support for 2 or 3 gigs of ram, what is the point of putting in 4 gigs? and is it 2 or 3 that windows recognizes?
strictly speaking, a 32-bit windows os can address approx 3 gb of memory. most programs can't go over 2 gb. there is a 64-bit version option for windows. it permits addressing much larger memory space (2^64 instead of 2^32), but again programs need to be written properly to make use of it. moreover, i find on my math-rig that a lot of basic programs simply can't run on 64-bit. so why sell computers with more ram than is usable? well, it's kinda the same thing as with amplifiers in an audio system. 1w is actually quite loud, and 10w can bust your eardrums. but ignorant customers will flock to the 100w or higher systems, regardless of what they actually need. big numbers sell, because in a typical retail setting there's a multitude of products that will work just fine for a person, but they're only gonna buy one. would you buy a 720p tv if there were a 1080i for similar price? can you actually see any difference with your cable signal or dvd collection? most every field has examples of this same phenomenon -- bottom line is a manufacturer needs their product to compete.
just the response i needed. thanks! yes, i am aware of 64-bit windows and it's ability to address more memory, but i really don't consider that a very useful windows as most of the programs i run, like you said, would not run on 64-bit. so when i said &quot;windows&quot; i had in mind &quot;32-bit windows&quot; and should've specified. and i definitely agree with you on how big numbers sell, and i was actually considering putting that in my original question. hard drive space, cpu speed, etc. big numbers do sell. i just wanted to know if there was any practical use of the four gigs of ram, other than linux or attempting to use 64-bit windows, like if it somehow improved 32-bit windows experience. is there any future possibility of a 32-bit system compatible with more ram, or 64-bit systems actually becoming useful?
32-bit systems can never go beyond their limit, in very much the same way that you can never have 10m phone numbers with 7-digit dialing. as for 64-bit becoming more useful, i think we're on the way there. up to about a year ago, there were basically no 64-bit windows programs. all that stuff was for servers only. in time software developers will ensure support for it, and perhaps more of them will not just support it, but actually make use of it. give it another year or two.
i appreciate your detailed response. that answered my question. thanks!
the limit is actually 4gb minus address space reserved for other memory, most notably your graphics memory. without getting into the details, you might be able to use, say, 3.5gb out of your 4gb of ram. so there can be a benefit to going for 4gb over 3gb, but it is slight, especially since many programs may not be able to make efficient use of that level of ram. also, you're still getting the hardware, so technically you could upgrade to a 64-bit os later and get the full benefit. i doubt many people will do this though.
the limit of ram that can be addressed will usually be between 3 and 4 gigabytes, depending on how much address space is taken up by other hardware (e.g. graphics card). so you might, for example, be able to access 3.5gb out of your 4gb using a 32-bit win xp installation (as in my case). so there is a benefit to 3 over 4, but it is slight, especially since many programs can't make use of that level of ram. also, you'll still own the hardware, so you could upgrade your os and presumably get the full benefit later, although i doubt many people will do that.
looks like i posted this one twice. whoops
although each applications are limited to 2 gbytes, unless the /3g switch is used), other applications needs memory as does the operating system.
alright thanks!
if you need a. to game intesively b. technology is ever advancing, sooner or later you'll need 4 gigabytes of ram to do basic things
which windows are you talking about? windows xp and vista support 4 gigabytes of ram, minus any hardware devices that contain their own memory. more expensive editions of windows server come in 32-bit edition but can use pae to access up to 64 gigabytes of memory. i believe if a computer comes with 4 gigabytes of ram or more, it will almost certainly have 64-bit windows preinstalled. or a 64-bit linux distro, which is my preferred option. at least when you have 4 gigabytes of ram, you'll still be able to access a couple of hundred megs more than if you had 3 gigabytes...
yeah, i recently switched over to 64-bit ubuntu, and am loving it. too bad my laptop (hp dv6000) only has support for 2gb of ram.
it is very common for a pc or laptop vendor to populate all the memory slots in their machine with what ever amount of memory you buy. for example if you bought a machine with two slots and a total of 2 gig of memory chances are it will come with 2 x 1gig modules. if you never need more memory this is not a problem but if you decied later that you need more you will have to replace and throw away at least on module. this happens often enough to pay attention to. fo examle someone who bought a pc with xp home sp1 could survive with 386meg, thrive with 512. as soon as sp2 came oout and antispyware software was added more memory was a really good idea. ask sales for the difference in cost. some just wont do it but many will. as far a big numbers... sometimes bigger numbers are a great idea. are you planning on saving a lot of music or videos to your harddrive (i like to use an external one myself so i can easily move it to other machines). are you going to be doiong any sound or graphic editing? you will be glad you bought extra space and memory. like computer games with a lot of action and good graphics? you'll want an upgraded memory card. if all you are going to do is run office, email and brower then a 500.00 (or less) machine will probably be fine. good luck
i believe the motherboard for my current laptop can handle up to two gigs of ram. i can assume there are two slots, and both are filled with one gig memory. it's a shame 'cause i'd want to upgrade my ram to four, but looks like i can't. as for your suggestions about big numbers, yeah i understand that. i just didn't understand the memory deal. i appreciate your responses!
