i have previously burned a dvd-rw (verbatin) with all of my downloaded software installation programs. the dvd was previously udf formatted using incd version 4.3.23.2. i have previously used the dvd-rw to write to and retrieve files. this time, i loaded the dvd in my drive to extract one of the files and the computer rebooted every time that i tried. ultimately, i got an error message telling me that there was a critical error on the disk and the disk would be marked as read only to protect the data. however, there appears to be nothing on the dvd now. when i insert it in the dvd drive, it seems to be labeled &quot;incd auto-formattable&quot; i've tried to read the dvd on 2 computers with the same results. does anyone know how i can retrieve the lost data?
1. incd should be installed to read it. yes, it's not required according to some but my experience is otherwise. 2. go use your backup copy. dvdrw disks are all of 1 dollar here. i hope your files were worth that much. in closing, isobuster has worked sometimes to get the files out. bob
thank-you for your reply. if you are inferring that i should have backed up the dvd. yeah! i know that it would have been a good idea to have 2 copies of the dvd but i didn't. i did try isobuster and it merely reported that the dvd was a blank disk. it is my understanding that (on a hard drive) even if the file allocation table is damaged or erased that a disk recovery tool can restore files. i'm assuming that something like that happened to my dvd-rw. are there any other ideas?
but there are copies of said files back on the machine you made the dvdrw on. time to go get those. a recurring lesson is that if you want to lose files, make sure there is only one copy on one &quot;thing.&quot; -&gt; next up. go get zero assumption recovery and getdataback and see what they think. if blank, then it's likely that you can send it to drivesavers and for a few hundred they'll see what can be done. bob
thanks again bob, first on the backup strategy.... the files on the dvd that i'm trying to recover are original installation programs that were downloaded from the internet. these programs are installed and working on my computer but the installation programs are not on the computer hdd. they only existed on the dvd. ....and yes! it is a lesson. that being said, i tried both zero assumption recovery and getdataback. unless, i totally screwed up, these programs will only recover data from a fat or ntfs file system disk. in fact, zero assumption recovery wouldn't even recognize my dvd drive. the dvd in question was udf formatted using nero incd. i previously did a search on &quot;udf data recovery&quot; and found a couple of shareware programs that claim to recover data from a udf disk but they failed too. it looks like it's lost cause. i'll put the experience &quot;in the bank&quot; and learn from it. thank-you again for your help!
