hi. i just recently reformatted my computer to unpartition some of my drives. after reinstalling windows 2000 pro and downloading the latest patches i'm having difficulty getting my seagate barracuda st380023as serial ata drive to show up in the disk manager or anything else in windows. i currently have a wdc wd300bb-00ccb0 hard drive set up as my primary master and the sata drive as the primary slave. i've checked the seagate website for support, however their troubleshooting guide seems lacking the info i need to fix the problem. they did mention something about my needing to install a sata host adapter driver, but did not have any info on any of the names or where i could find one of these drivers. i had a friend help me to set up the sata drive the first time around, and he's currently out of reach for tech support at the present... anything that might be helpful to my situation would be greatly appreciated. thanks.
there are two common mis-steps i see people trip and fall on. 1. a bios setting for the sata to emulate the old ide. try it. 2. some driver disk that they don't have or don't supply (tap f6 at some point?) to the windows 2000 installer. bob
funny story. i can't understand you. 1. what &quot;bios setting&quot; and what is a &quot;ide&quot;? 2. are you suggesting that i need a driver disk that i didn't get with the hard drive or win2k? if so what driver do i need? the reason i didn't respond for so long is that i couldn't log into my forum account. :p p.s. just another reminder, &quot;me am dumb&quot; it's the reason i came here to begin with. :\
if you are not aware what ide is or will know to look in the bios settings, then i will not be able to help you. you need some basic knowledge and take no offense that this small space can't tell you all that you need to know. however, the place that sold you these goods should be called and they should, as part of the sale support you installing the items. you are not dumb, just have not been into what a pc is made of and have dived into the shallow end of the pool and are a little dazed over all that one may need to know to build or upgrade their pc. here's a thought. maybe you should return the serial ata cards and drives and get good old ide drives since nothing heroic is needed to make it work. bob
