i'm trying to connect my new dell dimension 8400 (3.0ghz/512mb/xpsp1) to my home wireless network. i installed two diiferent pci adapter cards in my one available pci slot -- an older d-link (11b) and a brand new netgear (11g) (which dell sales assured me is compatible). both cards detected my netgear wireless router and provided an excellent internet connection, so i'm assuming they were seated properly. the problem is that every time i shut down the system i get the blue screen of death with the following message: hardware malfunction nmi: parity check/memory parity error the system has halted the system runs and shuts down perfectly when the pci cards are removed. d-link and netgear support technicians told me i have to contact dell, but dell support doesn't seem to have an answer for me. has anyone else had this problem, or better yet a solution? anyone know which wireless pci adapter cards are truly compatible with dell hardware? thanks!
in short, 1.  you need to dive into the event viewer and find what's up. 2. many owners don't have current bios, drivers and more. they rely on microsoft's windows update or driver update buttons. what do you do about this? 3. spyware. my bet is that your machine has some. what do you do about it? i'm sure you'll fix it, but the list has to be worked since the cause is somewhere in items 1, 2 or 3 and why dell has no clue. bob
thanks for the reply. the computer is brand new, out of the box so spyware shouldn't be an issue, and i can't believe the bios would be outdated already. i think dell is just pushing machines that aren't compatible with wireless adapter cards. anyway, i decided to compromise and use a usb adapter. not as fast but so much easier!
hi, i just bought a dell dimension 8400. i installed a wireless pci card (d-link g520+) in it, and receive the same blue screen when the machine shuts down. d-link points to dell. first line support of dell has no clue. i am awaiting results of escalation within dell. any feedback of users having same problem would be welcome. hedi
the same issues can apply and looking in the event viewer reveals the cause about 1/2 the time. bob
hi bob, 2 and 3 are likely not applicable: the problem happened just after unpacking the machine, without having time to get spyware from internet. for what concerns bios/drivers, the support of both dell and d-link checked this up, i have all latest releases (new machine, new card). so i go for 1) searching in the event - but no sure what i am suppose to look for. kind regards hedi
read  until you share, i can't do much but tell you to call it and even utter the words &quot;maybe i'll just return it then.&quot; bob
hi bob, i went back to the store and changed the dlw520+ for the dlw520 extreme(they have 2 different chipsets). this one is working fine - no blue screen anymore when shutdowning. thanks for the help. kind regards hedi
