i am using this lenovo pc for some 2 years now. the specs are as follows: intel celeron cpu speed 2.66 ghz ram 1.27 gb ms os sp2 bios type phoenix-award v6.00pg bios updated on 11/10/06 bios id grantsdale 6a 79dfkjc-00 at times when i boot up the pc, i would hear 2 beeps and cmos checksum error appears. then i have to press f1 and reset the date/time and press f10 when i am done. the pc then boots up normally. the next time when i boot up again after switching on the power, the same thing happens. the date goes back to 1/1/2003 and time is 0:0:0. i have to reset this again. i have tried changing to a new cpu battery but the problem still remains. i have not install any new hardware expect increasing the ram by another 1gb. i have also tried removing the new ram card and conducted an anti-virus scan. problem still not solved. and the thing that frustrates me is that this happens intermittently. i have not try the jumpers yet, cause i do not know how or where the jumpers are. is it necessary to do so? what would be the pros and cons to adjust the jumpers? thanks and pls help!!!! sk
other causes i've found for this issue. 1. type &quot;bad caps&quot; at google.com 2. i fixed a few by putting in a new power supply. there is some cmos reset or pwd reset jumpers on boards, which i will not write at length about. i use those to reset the cmos values and then setup the values again. rarely fixes the issue. worse case issue? the motherboard has failed in some odd way. bob
hi bob, thanks for the advise. i have tried replacing the power supply box but now the pc just wouldn't boot up. the hdd led light just kept on flashing but nothing happened. so i hooked back the old power supply box and back to my old problem (cmos checksum error). i have also did an &quot;eye-ball&quot; check on the caps like you said, all seems ok. no bulgging or leaking caps. any suggestions with regards to the power box replacement? thanks sk
missing a connection. many owners don't change them often and can't get the connections on proper. others will omit an atx12v connection. sadly if a new cmos battery doesn't cure it and you measured that battery with a volt meter to be sure it's good then the board looks to have failed. bob
ya bob i thick the mobo has failed me. well that goes to show that lenovo has failed me too. just less then 2 years usage. my other older acer is already 5 years and my son is still happily playing his online games and does his homework on it. well i guess i will get a new cpu and this time i will make sure its not a lenovo. thanks bod for all your quick responds by the way i think this forum is cool. cheers james
