hi, i have a computer with 4x2gb of 1333mhz ddr3 ram (this is the model:  ). and i am replacing the ram in it with 3x4gb of 1333mhz of ddr3 ram (this exact product:  ). i just want to double check that this will work alright and that i'm not doing anything stupid some how. and also i want to know what will happen if i keep one of my 2gb sticks in with my other three 4gb sticks. will that create a problem? or will it hinder my computer's performance at all? thanks very much
best to install in matched &quot;pairs&quot;. 2x4gb. 2x4gb and 2x2gb. 2x4gb and 2x4gb.  can you install 3x4gb?...........should work but you will drop back to single channel mode.
and same timings, you'd be better off getting 2 dimms at 4gb each and combine those with 2 of the existing dimms. you'd have 4gb dimms in the channel a slots and 2 gb dimms in the channel b slots....for a total of 10gb. using 3 dimms in a dual channel system or mismatched dimms in the same channel suboptimizes system performance. vapcmd ps...the triple channel kits can be used on the dual channel systems but they're really geared toward x58/socket 1366 mbs...otherwise you end up with leftovers/spares/or some variation of system suboptimization.
so you suggest i instead get 2x4gb 1333mhz dimms? and then just replace two of my 2gb dimms with that? and also i'm just wondering that if my motherboard supported triple channel ram would the 12gb work out fine?
&quot;and also i'm just wondering that if my motherboard supported triple channel ram would the 12gb work out fine?&quot; re triple channel (or dual channel) ram ... lets clarify this....ram is ram is ram. the main difference in this case is how it's used. when the motherboard architecture is dual channel or triple channel, the ram for it is often referred to as dual channel or triple channel ram. it's really as simple as that. using dual or triple channel to max efficiency means using 2 or 3 dimms of the same capacity, same speed, etc. your system is designed for matched dimms in pairs or &quot;dual channell&quot;. it would really help if you indicated what the objective is. you've got 8gbs ram which is normally enough for any standalone system and you really want 12gb because ???? going above 4gb or 8gb usually doesn't give a noticeable performance boost. re &quot;so you suggest i instead get 2x4gb 1333mhz dimms? and then just replace two of my 2gb dimms with that?&quot; not knowing what the objective is .... it's just one option that uses some of the existing ram, allows you to add new and raise the total ram. and it doesn't leave you with an extra dimm. here's an example of a kit for a dual channel memory system ddr3-10600 that i'd consider for an 8gb ram system. if you get 2 kits ....you have 16gbs ram.  vapcmd
based on your question your pc can go up to 16gb, 3x4gb is 12 gigs, so you are good, and the speed of the memory is 1066, so that corsair is compatible. the stick memory has nothing to do, so you can have as much as usb available you have hope this helps!!! computer repair miami
i guess i should have told you what my objective was in the first place. i use adobe after effects and it suggests that you have a considerable amount of ram. i think it recommends 2gb of ram per processor core. and also 1 or 2gb reserved for other programs. so i want to get a bit more ram so i can hopefully increase ae performance and also make it easier to use programs like photoshop and premiere pro at the same time. also, since i'm canadian, i don't think i can order from newegg unfortunately. thanks a lot for the knowledge.
i'd go with with a new kit with 2 dimms at 4gb....like the one recommended....same speed, same timing, same voltage, etc. as the existing ram. you'd put the 2-4gb dimms in the first channel say &quot;a&quot; and the leave the existing ram in channel &quot;b&quot; for a total of 10gb. if you still want more ram....then get another 8gb kit to match the first one for a total of 16gb. keep in mind your system operates most efficiently/optimally with matching dimms in pairs....3 dimms x 4gb doesn't meet the dual channel pair rule recommended by the system mfg. by the way..... newegg appears to have a canadian subsidiary.....  let us know how it works. vapcmd
thanks so much for the help again. i really appreciate it.
