just had a look at a friend's computer... it wont start. when i hit the power button all that happens is beep... beep... beep... beep... beep... i figger that there's a hardware problem and this is the pc's way to cry for help... any ideas?
an indication of video problems. also could be a memory problem. different bioses use different beep codes for a specific hardware problem. try reseating the video card. then try to find out whose biods is being used. do you know amnything else about the computer, such as the name the mfr, the mobo type, ert al? can try checking the mfrs site for beep code info.
thanks for the quick response... how do i reset the video card? don't know anything else about the pc except that it is apparently running winxp. but i will take a look.
you have to go inside the computer. before you do, be certain that the power is completely off, by unplugging the power supply [or turning it off by the switch on the rear of the supply]. be aware that the computer always has some power on the mobo as long as the power supply is plugged in to a hot outlet.[un less its switch is off]. when you take the cover off, be sure to touch some part of the metal chassis to ground yourself and discharge any static electricity that could damage components, touch the metal as frequently as possible. the video card, of course, is the one that has the monitor cable connected to it. remove the card and reinstall it physically. the agp socket takes considerable force to engage the card fully.
p.s. on what ray said. many mb have a small locking device on the agp slot so you will have push a small lerver or pull a small button to get the card out. also it could be a memory poblem. john
just like what you did on the video card, try reseating the memory module as well. (these are much smaller and flat than the video card) try to push the edge levers of the memory socket simultaneously, then carefully, insert it back following where the notches of the memory should fit and wait until a click sound or it locks up with the lever. (you really have to be careful with the memory module)
