hi there, i'm getting a strange sound from my cpu and it seems to becoming more frequent. i'll give my system info and then try and describe the sound. hp pavillion 754n, 2.53ghz pentium 4, 1gb ddr sdram, 80gb ultra dma hard drive, 200gb maxtor one touch external hard drive, dvd+rw/cd-rw drive, cd-rom, hp photosmart 7350 printer, epson perfection 2580 photo scanner. i have windows xp home-sp2 as my os. i regularly run spybot s&d, ad-aware personal, regcleaner and etrust-ezantivirus. the sound is like that of a vcr rewinding, very high pitched. it sounds like it's out of control.my mouse freezes and the only way to shut down is to push the power button,(i hate doing that) i'll reboot and it runs fine. for a while. it's probally happened about 5-6 times in the past few months. but twice in the past week. the last time it happened (last night) a blue screen appeared when i rebooted saying that it has to do a system check or disk check, something like that. sorry i can't be more specific with it. it did a scan, said all was ok then it continued to reboot. i'm a little concerned and i hoping it isn't anything really serious. any advice would be appreciated big time. gary,
hard drives dont last forever and it seems like urs is reaching its end...however i may be wrong and it may be something else...see what other ppl post. could be something stuck in a fan and causing overheat...again see what other ppl may say
open the case & see if you can pinpoint the location of the sound. if the cooling fan goes bad lots of bad things can happen. operate the pc without the side panel or cover. when you hear the sound, manually stop the fan mounted on the processor for a split second to see if the sound goes away (should be a 3&quot; square on the motherboard on top of an aluminum radiator). if that's not it, look to the power supply cooler or chassis fan(s). a good prophylactic measure is to clean out your fans w/ canned air, but use short, half-second bursts. and do this outside. i have this exact rig and the proc. fan was way too loud, i swapped it out for a noiseless zalman flower cooler and i run it at its noiseless setting, very happy. if you have any on-board diagnostics (smart, temp probe etc) run them. could also be hdd going bad, back up like a maniac! good luck! tony
is two years considered old for a hard drive or processor? i can see where a fan might wear out or begin to, but a hard drive? anyway, i'll take your advice and try and get an exact location of the sound. by the way, if it happens to be the hd or the pocessor, i'm gonna be back here needing help installing the new one. is it hard to transfer everything from one hard drive to a new one? is hard to install a new processor? just thinking out loud. gary,
you really need to open case and check those fans. any fan when it fails cause less &quot;ait circualation&quot; and thus more heat build-up. if allowed to continue whatever it was trying to cool will become stressed and at least become flaky or start to fail itself. thus, a case fan cause &quot;a;;&quot; componets to be stressed and a cpu fan a more direct reslut for cpu shutdown or similar as the system bios will kick-in its safety temp feature(hi-temp) and sgutdown or reboot. seriously, check the fans. an &quot;iffy&quot; fan is stop&go or not fully free to move isn't worth saving, just replace, asap. rememeber, that a case fan if not working 100% may cause the hd to be over heated and sooner or later will fail or become corrupted. tada -----willy
i took the cover off my computer and was just checking it out before i shut it down for dusting. (it definitely needed to be dusted.) i heard a bit of a winding/squeaking sound coming from one of the fans on the back, i believe this is the case fan. i have another fan next to it but that has a duct that leads to the top the large heat sink. i moved the case around to get a better look and then the high pitched/winding sound started. i tapped on the fan and it stopped. looks like i need a new fan. should i replace the other one too? also, any suggestions on a brand of fan i should buy? i would like to get the best one for preformance and durability. gary.
are my favorites, might as well get the quietest one you can:  has lots of good choices, but not the cheapest.
you can order online, but i prefer locally as i get it now and install it and quality is pretty good. depending on your locale, besy buy, fry's, and/or circuit city should carry fans and gosh, radioshaft . buy a &quot;ball bearing or magnetic type&quot; fan, avoid any &quot;sleeve bearing&quot;, brand is up to you. google for online source, i beleive frozencpu and newegg are decent vendors. happy usa -----willy
