i have checked with the epson website and managed to get the printer working but they do not have a scanner/photocopier driver for windows 7. is there any way i can get these functions to work on this printer? i am using an acer 5635z 64bit laptop.
epson.com wrote &quot;download and install the windows vista version of epson scan from the epson website.&quot; for the scanner in windows 7. did you try that?  claims their scanner software works but do drop them a line. bob
no epson's suggestion using the one for vista won't install. vuescan seems very impressive but the free test one has dollar signs over the result. the usable one costs $39. question..is it worth spending this on an old printer or do i buy a new one?
vuescan used to offer a demo mode so you could test it. ask them for that or just try it. i can't tell if you feel if this scanner is worth it. bob
thanks bob, it is the demo where you finish up with dollar watermarks over the result. no i know you can't make up my mind for me. it was a kinda rhetorical question.
at least you can give it a test before you decide. can i share an observation here? a few get upset over the lack of drivers as the years roll by. while i can explain why this is so what i want to write is this -&gt; many get so upset they write &quot;i'll never buy from them again.&quot; here's my observation. this issue is not limited to just a few makers. i've seen this happen with every product over the years from each maker. however i have had good luck with windows 7 xp mode where i use an old outdated no driver will ever be found usb microscope. this device has been very nice to capture pictures of stuff i need to document. it would be a shame to work that hard and for some there is that cost to upgrade to windows 7 pro or higher so vuescan is likely the cheap exit unless there is a new all in one that is cheaper than vuescan. bob
but i am not eligible to download windows xp mode with windows 7 home premium. vuescan seems very good but i must weigh this against the cost of a brand new printer/scanner for about 50. you are right about about the compatibility cost of windows 7. i lost adobe photoshop, corel draw, videocam look, greeting card magic and canon zoom browser does not link to pictures. all these were working well on xp so i seem to be paying the price of getting up to date.
the cost of that is to upgrade to 7 pro. then you gain access to xp mode and those old softwares can run in xp mode. maybe that would be worth it? it takes a little learning to master it but i find it to be a great solution. bob
