this pc is my homebuilt one, mutt parts, core of the system is an amd athlon something or other. is this a power supply problem? my pc was doing some video processing, and it locked up, which hasnt happened in a very long time. i power it down. i power it up right away, the fans start spinning etc, but it dies immediately, like a car that wont start. tried it again, same result. unplugged all the perifs, powered up, and it seemed to run fine. i put my hand behind the power supply on the back of the tower, and i notice a lot of heat coming out, beyond what i would expect normally i think. time for a new power supply or possibly something else? thanks!
posted as my reply.
ive had this computer for years. this is not a new computer problem. but, there is a new problem, and that is the strange amount of heat coming from the power supply. is this what power supplies usually do when they need to be replaced?
nothing lasts forever and you're already dealing with old parts. if you have an &quot;under-powered psu&quot; it will eventually die. it may also become stressed just by wear&tear as heat is a culprit all too often in these cases. just consider you got your money's worth. replace the psu or any other part as necessary. if you feel the psu is putting out too much heat, then replace it will fry itself and *maybe* take something else with it, if not already. you have an iffy situation where all items together cause a problem, thus test elsewhere alone. let's not forget that a possible &quot;bad caps&quot; can be had if poor power was at fault or the famous bad caps manufacture. check:  for clues/tips. tada -----willy
is a basic method of solving problems on any type/age computer. you want to find out what is causing the supply to shutdown or run hot. if you want to see if the supply runs hot when not connected to anything. simply jumper the green wire on the connector that goes to the mobo to any of the black wires, and the supply should turn on [as noted by the fan turning][also tells whether the power switch is defective]and stay on as long as the jumper is present. the supply will have no external load, and thus if it blows out hot air the supply itself is bad.
