i'm getting a new computer, and use it mostly for music recording (acid or the like) and video editing (short teaching vids with sony vegas), as well as general internet use/downloading. no gaming. will this setup be ok? i'm a massive user of computers but for some reason know nothing about what's inside one. here's what i have written up by the dude who's building it: cpu - intel q8300 (2.5) ram - samsung 2g 6200 (2 of these) motherboard - asus p5q se2 vga - ati hd 4670 hdd - samsung 1tb odd - lg h22ns 30 case - able a201 power supply - aone 500w monitor - esys ex2201w some of this stuff i'm not even sure about what it is, but i do know that it's got a ton of space on the hard drive and it seems pretty fast. so far the bill's $975 won. does that seem about right? i'll also be getting a nice soundcard for recording, though i'm not sure what kind just yet (any recommendations?). by the way, i'm in seoul, korea, so that's why i'm using asian products. i trust samsung; not sure about the other brands.
cpu: architecture and name have nothing in common. amd64 is the same- x86_64- no matter who makes it. ram: this depends on the board manufacturer and bios. again, name doesn't matter. graphics card support is also dependent upon the library being used. i am a user of computers and of multiple operating systems. glorified specs and the hype behind them are useless to me. really, you should learn about computers. it would be very easy for someone to screw you in a way you won't enjoy. fast? wow! you need experience with other operating systems and variating configurations for each before you make this statement.
buying asian parts is practically a mute point as most computer parts are from the pacific rim area. just buy what you feel comfortable with and best warranty if any. your system looks very capable, i see nothing that stands out as an issue from the h/w. don't count on speed as a system measure, its more of the guts that can crunch all this in a reasonable time. however, you need to consider the os(you didn't mention), thus a 64-bit one is better for you as you're using video or audio editing, etc, into the mix. xp or vista 64-bit is probably a good choice and you can add more ram should the need arise. i don't like to give advice on specs of an system has usually that's a done deal. i part is suggesting, &quot;cheap is cheap&quot; so don't buy on cost alone, you'll be happier in the long run. adios -----willy
first thing i see, power supply, would jack it up a little, 500w is less than i would go, 600w or better.
probably you may want to keep a look out for a good sound card for audio and a dedicated card will take the processing load off the main procesor, but if for basic audio, asus' in-built is just fine. with regards to samsung, they are one of the small number of memory chip manufacturer for most other brands (besides hynix) for crucial, kingston and patriot, thus that's not an issue.
