im having troubles since i uninstall some of my apps, then when i checked my system registry bunch of junks were left behind by the apps i already uninstall. is there any way i could clean my registry aside from expensive registry cleaners. my computer suffers from crash and slow start up. please give me advice so i can clear up my registry from junks. thanks for those who will reply.
change hard disks? you may want to ask in the forum that matches your os. in closing the cleaners seem to not cure your issue for windows xp and vista. registry cleaners did work on the old windows 98 machines and days. bob
use regedit to delete the 'bunch of junks' you found. regedit is free. but depending on which applications it were (can you tell?) it's somewhat doubtful there will be less crashes and faster setup. kees
i tend to use ccleaner(google for it) as a registry(and system) cleaner. using its defaults does pretty well. in no way will it cure any hardcore problems as you mentioned, &quot;crashes&quot;, but it should clean some of the junk out. i further suggest, if you already know the location of junk files, directories, registry, etc., delete them manually using regedit. make darn sure its the proper action to take. you can use the restore(create) point feature of ms to help in case you hose your system. then defrag the hd to help consolidate it. if you had any &quot;hic-cups&quot; during the un-install, try reloading the problem app/pgm. and re-use its uninstall feature or the add/remove from ms. tada -----willy
it's free and pretty safe to use automatic. then clean out temp files (don't compress any files or use indexing.) if the c drive is compressed, then uncompress it. then defrag as willy suggested. charlie
i tried all those suggestions you mentioned ccleaners regedit defragmentation and uninstalling process. it all worked out and i suffer no more from crashes and slow start up! but when i was doing the regedit version, i was so nervous that i might delete a wrong file so before i started the regedit, i study first the apps/prgm i installed and uninstalled and then proceed to the deleting process and it went very well. so when i boot my pc i smile because in less than a second after my windows start up my desktop shows and my system tray work faster now. thankz guyz i luv this forum!
another utility that may interest you is the emergency recovery utility nt (erunt) unlike system restore, erunt backs up the entire registry and when it is used to restore the system it actually removes the many orphaned files left behind by many applications that have been uninstalled. if you download it, read the readme.txt file for a lot of interesting info. but in spite of what is says about disabling system restore, i suggest not disabling system restore (except to remove pests) as two back ups are always better than one. erunt backups can also be copied to a cd for safe keeping. as long as the erunt program is installed on the cd or the computer you can restore with it. the web page also has a registry optimizer, but it is rarely necessary to use such a utility. these apps are free of spy ware and such and the price (free) can't be beat. charlie
great for cleaning out registry references to files that no longer exist on the drive. doesn't do anything for getting rid of duplicate entries that sometimes occur in the registry. that latter rarely causes any problem though other than unneccessary reg bloat.
gotta be careful about removing duplicate entries as some apps require their own dedicated dll's, etc. learned about that the hard way when using an app designed to remove such which was touted as &quot;totally safe&quot;. perhaps i'm just paranoid but since then when i suspect something is a duplicate i usually just leave it be, and in any case i don't use software for the job. charlie
