i have a ea6300 set up in my small duplex and it is crippling my download speeds. ran a program called network logger for 24 hours hard wired into modem, had an average 88.03mbps download and 19.1 mbps. another 24 hours wired into router 84.11mbps down and 19mbps up. awesome. 24 hours on 2.4ghz network roughly 30 feet from router 9mbps down and 4.4mbps up. 24 hours on 5 ghz network same place in house 11mbps down and 997 kbps up (i would trim this upload, but its 24 hours with a 30 second refresh rate) i have no cap on my usage, and i also pay for 70+ mbps. this wireless is killing my speed, what gives? linksys says they want to replace the router, but the **bleep** thing is brand new. i have the router set up exactly as linksys told me to, prioritization is disabled. other information (this is from inssider) 5 ghz rssi -70 channel 36 + 40 wpa2 personal max transfer rate 450mbps there is no (0) other traffic on the lower 5 ghz freq 2.4 ghz rssi -52 channel 3 wpa2 personal max transfer rate 130mbps there is a bit of traffic on the 2.4ghz freq, but channel 3 and 4 are not used (except by me) channel 7-11 are extremely clogged and channel 1 has about 5 networks on it. also to note, on the 2.4 ghz channel my ps3 gets 2-4mbps down and 700kbps up in roughly the same place as the laptop. if anyone has any ideas on how to speed this up that would be quite useful. note: up until about a week ago the only thing i knew about wifi was how to use the wizard when you get a new router. i am catching up, but bear with me.
those wifi speeds are under the best of conditions. i.e. laboratory results. also, if the wifi card in the laptops are well, not current or from the same maker as the router, speeds do fall. i've only seen full speeds under ideal conditions and when i used a linksys router and matching linksys wifi cards. why not let linksys swap that router? bob
what wifi speeds would you be referring to? i think that a 80% decrease in download speeds should not be warranted, given i've seen wireless hit almost 30mbps on this laptop on other routers. i'm not looking for 80-100 mbps, but something over 9 or 10 would be nice. keep in mind this is an average over 24 hours. there were times when it was as low as 4 or 5 mbps. this is my only router at this moment, and if i send it to linksys i go dark for awhile. this wouldn't be an issue, but me and the wife use the internet for work.
the cards and routers have to negotiate and if they are not matched up, they can negotiate it wrong. there are consumers that don't want to get into the dirty bits but in short, try setting it all as 802.11g and hope that helps. why would you go dark as you can run wired? something's not right here. also there's always virtual router to stand in. bob
i think that's sad. the wireless card seems to be fine, but i understand what you mean about the cards not syncing. i'll try g, thanks. yes, i can leave a macbook down near the modem and internet share, but wired is mostly out of the question unless i want to buy a few hundred feet of cat 5 or sit on my washer to chart. i don't know what you meant about something being wrong there, but i meant what i said.
you wrote you got it to work wired then wrote you would go dark. this didn't make any sense to me as it worked wired and we have virtual router for our windows pcs and apple has it's own way of doing that. we also have a dozen settings on wifi routers to try but i can't do that on a forum. i will offer the usual that works for most and not get into the other area (that's for support folk to do.) this is only a discussion forum and i'll share or discuss this but in no way am support. bob
yeah it works fine wired, but check this out. my work space is not (not) next to my modem. so in order to do this, i would have to haul all my stuff to my modem to work. this is not feasable, therefore i require either wifi or 150 ft of cat 5 for my wife to trip over or complain about. as it turns out, i don't have an extra computer to use as a router, and buying one to do that seems counterintuitive. is that more clear?
the cost of the ethernet cable is about the price of a cheap wifi router. in fact, i was on travel and in a pinch needed a temporary router. i went to fry's and for under 20 bucks was done. a 150 foot ethernet cable could cost as much. -&gt; but are you saying you have wifi out at 150 feet? i missed that detail and it can explain almost all of the troubles. you may have to deploy another system to move the wap closer to your pcs. bob
