as with most if not all such questions, i'm looking for a scanner to just scan photos for eventual cd/dvd storage but i'm hoping for 2 things: 1. - to find one bundled with software that can automatically name the photos as i quickly (more or less...;&gt;) shove them through the scanner. ie: i have a lot of outdoor pics so as an example, i'd like to name them bar harbor 1999 (2000, etc.) and have the software autoname them as they get scanned. 2. - a scanner that i can put a stack of pics in it rather than handfeed each pic seperately - if such a thing exists. i typically go to best buy when i have to buy electronics. i like to see what i'm buying but there's nothing on their website (or in the products description that i can find) that would indicate what i'm looking for. any help is appreciated! -jim
there are such things but get your checkbook out, ricoh makes them as do fujitsu, hitachi and a couple of others, a cheap one is somewhere around 1k. just how good they are i cannot say but i know they ain't cheap!
you want the adf such as the  however all i know is the automatic retouch is really nice. can't say you'll ever find this at bb. bob
if i were to buy another scanner it would very likely be the epson perfection, for all around use, and for the cost involved it is a really good choice. the hp 4890 that i have doesn't hold a candle to the epson.
kodak has a line of photo scanners marketed towards businesses that are similar to the auto-feed ones on target photo lab kiosks, just without the kiosk. these are nice because they have a straight path for feeding the photos and soft rollers, so the originals are much less likely to get scratched up. you will still need to clean the lenses of the scanner periodically as you scan photos so that dust does not cause them to have small streaks in the scanned image. the early model was the s1220, which was replaced a couple of years ago by the ps410 and ps810. at 600 dpi resolution, the ps410 and ps810 operate at almost the same speed. at 300 dpi, the ps810 is much faster.  - 300 dpi ps410 vs ps810 speed comparison  - 600 dpi ps410 vs ps810 speed comparison the ps810 is a bit more expensive than the ps410. in addition to the bumped hardware specs at 300 dpi, it includes some more software options, including for file naming. both scanners can output batches of photos to named folders. if you want advanced file renaming options and go the ps410 route, i'd check out the freeware bulk rename utility program for windows (google it. awesome little utility.). the kodak photo scanners mentioned above are not through their consumer division, so they aren't going to be found at a best buy. they are actually manufactured by the company's document imaging division. a google or amazon search should turn up resellers. there are also some places out there that will rent them if you're just looking to do a one-time project instead of owning one.
