i can get more details tonight, but i thought i might see if anyone has a clue as too what is happening. i have a case with 8 hd's in it (for storing hdtv files). a few nights ago i was looking at one of the drives from another pc using remote desktop and when i clicked on one of the folders, it said it wasn't there (don't remember the exact error) or that was not accessible. so i went into the computer itself and looked, same error. so when i restarted, it wanted to run scan disk (i think thats the dos disk utility) at startup. so it ran over night and when i went to look at it in the morning, the drive was empty! it had 200gb of data on it. this has happened to two other drives in the last few months. i can get computer details later to help figure out the problem. but i though some ideas might be on the top of someones head. i wonder if it's a power issue, cable issue, etc? i also have this computer in a &quot;closet&quot; with my cable modem, wap and router. it's also in the same closet as the water meter (i think that's what it's called, where the water comes into the house.) i wonder if it has some magnetic field that's effecting the pc? thanks, jeff
1. many of the hard disk testing utilities are data destructive. 2. are you using a damage resistant file system. if it's fat32 or such, loss is not unheard of. 3. are you using a more reliable os like linux? 4. why couldn't you reveal enough information so the forum can take a guess at a proper sized power supply? 5. 8 drives at about 20 watts each is 160 watts. since most power supplies fib about capacity, i'd fit something about 4 times that value plus beyond reason ventilation. 6. ide cables will be an issue in such an electrically noisy box. i would only accept 80 conductor ide cables if these are ide. bob
since hard disks are temporary storage space, you may want to review what the backup system is and how it failed. can you share why the backup system failed you? others can learn from this backup failure. bob
i am using ntfs os is windows xp pro my power supply is an allied al-a400atx 400watt all ide cables are pctoys 80wire ata133 cables. does that help?
what kind of backup system can i used with almost 2 terabytes of data? i am in the process of backing up to dvd's. but that is gong to take forever. i am considering a nec 8x dvd drive for backups. but i hear the 8x are not as reliable as 2x and 4x? but i will probably use it anyway.
but from your writing, you may just be revealing that you have no concerns about data retention? bob
along with what i read about your backup plan (none?) it appears you have work to do. best of luck, bob
no, i do. i just had this happen before i can get the data backed up to dvd's. it will take a while with that much data to get it all on dvd's.
your choice on the backup scheme, but dvd seems like a poor choice since you may need some 40 or 50 disks to hold 2 tb. time to look at dlt. bob
