i use a desktop for audio engineering. the system is about 3 years old. i'm hoping the few details that follow will be enough to get a discussion started. thank you. i was playing a multi-track audio project file (like i have done all day every day for years on this system) when all of a sudden the computer shut down - sorta. the light on the mobo stays on, the hds are still humming, the fan is still turning, but none of the usb components are receiving power (no lights go on) and i can not reboot the comp using the reboot button (everything just remains 'on'). the dual monitors show nothing, not even a boot screen when i do a full power cycle, as if there is no booting happening at all. what do i try next to help dissect (and ultimately fix) this problem? thank you!
change the psu and continue from that. while you have some items &quot;running&quot; that means that voltage is present but not others. the usb is key as that points to 5v being low or gone, while the fans running suggest 12v is up. at 3yrs. and it seems you've tasked this pc, it's shown its age. that's where i start, swap psu for a better wattage level and a decent name brand. you can use a meter if you're capable to verify presence of voltage. the other half of this is not powering-off. that also suggests psu, but the mtrbd. key to logical power on/off. if swapping psu doesn't cure it, then that's an issue of the mtrbd., or a 2ndary problem, if the psu was bad and it took the mtrbd. with it. tyada -----willy
this is tough. i just got another opinion that said the problem is definitely not the psu. my next step will be to get a psu tester and start there since it seems to be the cheapest first step.
i still can't explain what the solution is but the computer seems to be working again. i started by unplugging all but the primary hard drive (i have 3 sata drives hooked up to the mobo - a primary/software/boot drive, a data drive, and a backup drive). with only that drive connected everything worked/booted fine. so then i added the backup drive and that worked fine as well. the i added the data drive and i got a &quot;reboot with primary boot drive...&quot; message after the flash screen. i unplugged it again and everything is fine. then i start swapping cables to see if the and sata or psu cables were bad. nope, each worked individually on the boot drive. the weird part was when i started adding the other drives there was no clear consistency. sometimes a drive would work in one configuration (mix and match cables, change mobo slots) and sometimes it wouldn't. but in the end i found a new combination of drive/mobo slot order and cable hookup that seems to be working. i still can't figure out why this originally happened while i was in the middle of using the computer. no software/hardware changes were happening, it wasn't during startup, i was just playing a music project file. anyway, the problem isn't happening (can't say it is 'solved') so hopefully that will end this thread. thanks
good to hear. now, the other shoe. as i posted if not psu then the mtrbd. could be at fault. what can happen is the &quot;bad caps&quot; issue arises. not that caps become defective or found that way but rather during use under wear&amp;tear they surcome to damage. the damage results from prolonged use under &quot;heat stress&quot; and a bad caps develops. the usual result is a bulging, distended, leaky or blown cap. it causes &quot;iffy&quot; operation that comes and goes depending on where the bad caps are found. the usual repair is to replace the whole bank of caps rather than just 1 or 2 that bad, as the history suggest it could happen to all sooner or later. understand, bad caps are found in any electronic circuit, so anything electronic can have the issue. the psu itself has caps as well. so, beware your problem may come back, keep this in mind. tada -----willy
thanks for the info!
change the power supply. it could be damaged.and couldn't supply full power to your components.
