i should connect apartment 2 network to ap1 network and provide it with internet. equipment is as on drawing, wep is disabled, ap router from ap1 and ap client from ap2 are properly connected via channel 13, 54mbps. signal is 70db. problem is that computers from ap2 cannot ping anything beyond 192.168.1.131. where did i do wrong? how should be dhcp config? [img]  [/img]by [url= at 2011-07-28
it looks like you've bridged from one network to another. i can't think of a reason for a second router. the one in apt #1 should be able to provide dhcp addresses to pcs in both locations.
i dont quite understand you, wireless router 192.168.1.1 is now dhcp enabled, rest of them are dhcp disabled. basic problem is that i san not acess 192.168.1.130 from ap#2 computers, and 192.168.1.131 from ap#1 computers. not even with ping. both aps are tp-link tl-wr543g with latest firmware, one set in router mode, another in client mode, connected properly, dhcp disabled on both.
those should be from the dhcp pool dispensed from the router that does dhcp for the entire complex. also there can be issues with what you used for gateway entries all around. i don't see the netmask, gateway and more in the diagram. i am guessing this is new ground for you. bob
i don't know those brands/models but what i've done is use two aps in bridge mode. as i recall, i needed to enter their mac addresses from each to the other. in bridge mode, however, clients cannot connect so you'd need another ap to broadcast the signal. my i've only needed to do this once and the remote bridge went to a switch and the that end of the network was wired. in any event...and from the drawing...you're connecting two network legs via a wireless bridge so i'm presuming that copper is not an option.
here is screenshot from ap-s web interface, i can enter several ap-s mac adresses to bridge, howewer on the other side (client) there is only connecting without entering mac-s [url=  [/img][/url]uploaded with [url= i presume problem here lies in settings of one of theese routers, or both.
hi bob, this is not really new ground for me, i have some experience on it. dhcp server is 192.168.1.1 and ap2 cannot reach it so it has problem obtaining adresses automatically. gateway is 192.168.1.1/24. any information you request will be added to diagram, i would really appreciate help on this one
sorry but the make, model of the devices are eluding me. without them i can't check if they block or don't bridge the dhcp. bob
both aps are tp-link tl-wr543g with latest firmware,
nothing in the manual tells me the bridge mode will do what you want. unless the maker tells more, i'd get my money back or try other modes. bob
any chance for using copper? if they're not physically attached, i'd go underground and use the proper type for that purpose. if you can diy, it could be cheaper than using all this wireless hardware and definitely more reliable.
yes you are right, all options are drained. i will try to get at least one ap more for testing. thank you for your time bob!
when i need to extend my range i've used a common router but set it up as a wap. this is covered in the cnet networking forum sticky as well as google &quot;how to use a router as a wap.&quot; with that out of the way, i place this wap where it gets the best shot at reaching my other location. now on the other side i can use a gaming bridge or a bridge that i used many times as a wifi client is the wgps606 the gaming bridge or wgps606 is also placed where it has the best shot at connecting to the wap (which i used a common router) and at that point i can test connectivity by plugging into the bridge's ethernet ports. if i want to get wifi coverage in that area i add one more router as a wap and i'm done. that's my formula that i've used too many times. due to failures of those &quot;bridges&quot; i had to come up with something that i could make work. bob
i have read what you suggested me, and i did all like people wrote there, thing is still not working. maybe this is problem, it is my final guess: [img]  [/img] this router has only these two modes, there is not regular client mode?
no way for wires apt1 and apt2 are not so close to each other...
other physical barriers, you may also have problems getting a good wireless signal from one to the other. you'll probably need directional outdoor antennas. good luck
and you're right. maybe these are not the right parts. after all this i thought it best to share my old setup that i've used ... too many times. bob
yes that is the problem, few minutes ago i replaced router tp-link tl-wr543g from apt2 with regular ap with regular client mode, and in a few minutes internet is in apt2!! modes of levelone ap:[img]  [/img] thank you all for your time and efforts, and remember (because i will) that tp-link tl-wr543g cannot be used as regular client ap!
and right or wrong i find the maker's support lines for this sort of setup to be quite poor. bob
