i just got a new lcd samsung syncmaster 930b i must say, i'm fairly dissapointed at the fact that no dvi cable was included. i was wondering if there was a big difference between dvi and analog. also, how can i check for any problems on my monitor, such as dead pixels etc. i have noticed some backlight leakage when i set the screen black, is this a major issue? where can i buy cheap dvi cables? the only ones i found are $170 monster cable ones.
i myself have never noticed the difference between analog and dvi. but i have heard many people claim that there is a signifigant advantage to using dvi over analog. i was wondering what your opinions were on this topic?
i can't see the difference. as to being disappointed, it's odd to me since such is listed if its included. but in today's cut throat price as all costs war, nothing extra can be included. cheers, bob
i saw a monster tv dvi cable for $170 and then i found this  for $20 what makes the monster tv cable cost $150 more? i might just get the $20, cause the price isnt that bad.
you have responses that write &quot;can't see a difference&quot; and yet you will expend 20 bucks plus shipping to repeat the experiment. why is that? bob
it was a suggestion from a friend.
just kidding. i still wonder how many cables are purchased that were not needed. bob
i took the dvi cable from my benq and used it on the samsung, and saw no difference. im just going to stick with analog. is backlight leakage a big deal? because it only shows up when the screen is black... i could return it if its a big deal as i bought from fs
backlight leakage is most commented by those that don't understand the technology. look what lcd displays are made of and how they are made and if you can make a leak free design, patent it. hope this helps. bob
its just annoying knowing that it's there but usually i don't even notice it. i'm just wondering why its a lot worse than my benq or my sony lcd's
when i put my two monitors side by side the text on my samsung seems &quot;fuzzier&quot; compared to my benq dunno if that has anything to do with the cable though, will do more testing
you might try ebay. i've gotten a lot of good cables which appear to be just as good as those bought at electronics stores.
i am trying to use dvi to hdmi with my panasonic 42 in. tv and my 811 dish recever.it works fine to a point when it turns into a red snow ball. have to turn tv off an back on again,after a time it repeates again.is there any help out there. it works fine with component y pb pr cables.
i tried both dvi and analog on my dell 18.1&quot; ultrasharp lcd. i personally didn't notice a difference. i wasn't looking real hard however. this is kinda subjective. some ppl will notice a diff while others won't be able to see it for the life of them. only way i can tell u for sure for my model lcd is if i had 2 of them side by side, but htat' won't happen with only one lcd monitor of that model.
i tried both dvi and analog on my dell 18.1&quot; ultrasharp lcd. i personally didn't notice a difference. i wasn't looking real hard however. this is kinda subjective. some ppl will notice a diff and claim there's a significant difference while others won't be able to see it for the life of them. only way i can tell u for sure for my model lcd is if i had 2 of them side by side, but htat' won't happen with only one lcd monitor of that model.
ive got an nec multisync lcd.....seemed to me, good computer(alienware ...nvidia 6600gt) good monitor.....yet after switching the included monitor cable( you'd think alienware would include it as well or at least offer it on there website.....regardless luv the thing anywayz ) either way made the trip to &quot;fry's electronics&quot;(las vegas....based in california) was like $60. switching back n forth.....&quot;seemed&quot; to me that the screen seemed to refresh or &quot;pop&quot; up faster with the dvi cable than wothout. if indeed using a utility, movies or gaming where it makes the most difference (clairity, refresh) then definately go dvi.if not applicable then save yourself a few bucks.
when i connected a cheap dvi to hdmi cable to our 50&quot; plasma by pioneer. the blacks were better and the picture is a wee bit sharper.
i have a viewsonic vp201m monitor and i can easily see the diffenece between an analog and dvi connection. the dvi produces a much crisper display. others apparently have different results, but i am sold on dvi. like you, i find it irritating that not all monitor manufacturers include the dvi cable. i got an nec monitor for my daughter and it only had the analog cable. i did find a good deal on dvi cables by looking on e-bay. some are as low as $8 including shipping costs. good luck.
