i have been a user of superduper! for some time and understand the process of making a bootable clone of my startup drive. the other day, my bootable backup drive crashed. it was an iomega that had been partitioned and worked fine as a bootable backup until the drive itself failed. the iomega was a firewire 400 drive. when i bought a replacement, i bought a western digital fw 800/400, usb 2, esata connection system. 1 tb. i partitioned it and created a bootable clone with the latest version of superduper! the operation went smoothly until i tried to actually boot from the newly created clone. i could select the clone from the startup disk panel, but my mac refuses to boot from it. it looks, then says, &quot;hmmm! i think i'll start up from the internal drive.&quot; i have another wd fw 400, usb 2.0 drive and it is bootable as well as a lacie fw 400 that i can make bootable. only this one drive that has no specific fw 400 port will not boot. i tried it as fw 800, no dice. i connected with the adapter cable to the fw 400 port, no joy. i can return this wd drive for exchange. my question is should i expect the same results if i exchange it for another drive of the same type? or is there a chance that a new drive of the same type will work? powermac, dual g5 2 ghz, os x 10.4.11. it has a fw 800 port as well as fw 400. thanks for any advice you can offer. ed
in sd you have the option to make the clone bootable. if yours were unchecked, chances are that sd did not make it bootable. i would first repeat the cloning making sure that this option is enabled. if it fails, then return the drive. i would suggest you get an owc one. they have a very good reputation and are portable to boot (no pun intended).
in fact i did have &quot;make bootable&quot; checked both times a tried. under startup disk, the folder on that drive showed up as bootable, but when it came to push and shove, it would not start up from there. i guess i'll switch to another brand. i liked the idea of an fw800 drive, but being able to boot is the key element i need. thanks for your suggestions. regards, ed
if that option was checked, then sd would have booted from the external after having finished cloning. this would mean that the drive is in fact bootable and some glitch in the startup disk pane on the main computer just precludes its selection as a boot drive. i would repeat the cloning (or if you remember what happened, don't do it) and see that the external is booted into indeed. if this is the case, i would create another account with admin preferences and see if you can select the boot drive from its preference pane (i am not sure there is a pref file for this pane to trash). if it works ok, then you have a problem with the main account and you might like first to apply another combo update (not from software update) or run techtool pro or diskwarrior. if nothing works, i would then exchange or return the external drive.
sd is setting the drive to be the boot drive. it says so. the startup disk pref panel let's me choose the clone and sd had it selected. when i boot, no joy. in fact, if i hold down the option key after during startup, i should be allowed to choose the startup drive. that does not work properly: the newly created drive does not show up. if i take a different clone, created previously, and attach that to the mac, i can boot from it just fine. i have even returned the drive for a new one (same brand/model) and it also will not start up my mac. this is not user error. it is a drive that will not boot an older mac no matter what sd says or does. the startup drive is not an account issue since it fails to start long before the account information is relevant. i'm going to take this one back and get a fw400 drive like the one that will boot my mac.
since this is an interesting case that may affect others, let me ask you a question: are the other drives that boot also partitioned so that only one partition has an os x? if it was installed on the whole drive, that could be the issue. if you do not partition the 1 tb but just clone the internal to it, maybe it would work as intended. but you are right about the issue related to the drive itself.
i have a 1tb lacie drive that i partitioned into 4 equal partitions. i proceeded to use that drive to create clone startup volumes that work fine on four different powerpc computers running 10.4.11. the drive i had that crashed (prompting the purchase of the present drive) was an iomega that had two partitions, one for the bootable clone and the other for data. in every case, i have always partitioned the drives into at least 2 partitions, one slightly larger than my internal drive and the other taking up the rest of the available space. i am not interested in cloning my internal 150 gb drive to a 1 tb drive that has not been partitioned. summary of what i have: 500 gb iomega drive, partitioned to two volumes, one volume clones my internal drive. this drive crashed last week after working for about 3 years. 1 tb lacie, partitioned into 4 equal volumes. each volume successfully will startup the computer from which it was cloned. 500 gb western digital, partitioned to two volumes. one volume clones one of my other macs (a 2004 imac) and works fine. 1 tb western digital, fw800/400/usb2/esata, partitioned to two volumes (200 gb and the rest of available space). this is the problem drive. superduper! will make a clone of my internal drive, but the clone will not boot the computer. i intend to replace this drive with a lacie like the one above. i should also mention that in partitioning the drive, i choose the option for using the apple file system intended to boot powerpc macs. when partitioning and cloning, i start up in &quot;safe boot&quot; mode and have verified with both disk utility and techtool pro 5 that all drives are free of volume errors and have run repair of permissions on my startup volume before cloning.
for a detailed reply. i agree that partitioning by itself does not seem to be a factor. your assumption about the defective/wrong drive might be the right one. i and many others had good luck with owc drives.
i returned the wd drive and traded it for a lacie like my other one. i partitioned it and superduper! made a bootable clone of my internal hd. no problems starting up from the clone. my conclusion is that either the wd fw800 drive will not start an older mac or possibly superduper! may need to be updated. i will drop them a note so they will be aware of the situation. i guess another possibility is that wd's drive might require an os later than mine (10.4.11) to be bootable.
i asked shirt pocket software about this. here is the reply: &quot;...wd external drives do not support startup on power pc macs, ed. that's one reason we never recommend them...&quot; that is interesting and i wish i had known earlier. recall, however, that i actually have a wd drive that starts up my wife's imac (power pc, 2004 vintage).
first, sd has been updated several times in the last two months; maybe your version is old. second, i just saw something about the partitions on external drives to the effect that they may need a firmware update; see  anyway, i am glad you resolved the issue!
in fact, i was using an older version of sd. boy! did i feel stupid! i discovered my error as i was composing my email to shirt pocket, so i told them what i was using and asked if that might be the explanation for my problems. the response to that part of my email was &quot;no&quot;. i'm going to have to take their word for it. it's looking like wd is abandoning making drives that will boot power pc macs.
so, it might be a firmware issue after all...
i don't know much about firmware and how it might be involved in this, but i do like the fact that my new drive shows no problems starting up my mac. thanks much for your ideas on this. i hope the discussion has benefited someone else. regards, ed
