i was backing up some of my dvds recently and noticed that it took an extremely long time to burn them. lets just say it usually took about 40min total to copy onto the harddrive and burn a dvd. now it takes over 80 min! this was pretty abrupt. ive defragged, & scanned for everything. not sure what else to do. dont know if this matters, but theres about 30gb of space left on my 120gb harddrive, but this never prevented a faster burn before. win xp p4 2.8ghz 512mb ram
i select recording at 1/2 the media or drive speed whichever is lowest because &quot;i've learned the lesson.&quot; maybe a good thing? also, the dvd may be copy protected and it takes longer? bob
i forgot to mention this before but before it suddenly slowed down, i was able to use the internet & play music seamlessly & the burning process didnt take any longer than usual. but i will try to burn a disc at 1/2 speed
type xp dma into google.com and consider setting the channels to pio and back to dma as noted in the first article from microsoft. sorry but the details are so thin in your posts that i can't offer much. bob
sorry to resurrect a dead thread but i totally forgot about this forum. i tried the dma trick to no avail. so lets see...more info.... i use several burning software and it ranges from jetaudio to nero, to dvd shrink, all of which have noticably added about 10 minutes to the burning process. im not sure if ive mentioned this before but i used to be able to multitask alot while burning dvds, but now just to be sure that the burn comes out without errors i have to refrain from strenuous activity. for example i could listen to music, play a flash game, burn a dvd, and surf the web with no slow down at the same time. now i justsurf the web when when im burning something & theres still a slowdown. is this slowdown normal?
it's very normal. and if the owner isn't watching every update they may miss what caused the change. for instance an update to norton caused some sluggish email performance one day. so off with norton and in with something else. gotta pay attention since i can't guess what you installed. bob
