my computer is gone. unfortunately, while i was waiting to get into college, i was staying at this very bad place and it got very hot and even when my computer wasn't on or plugged in but i lost everything (but i still have everything backed up so i can re-install everything again) and when i tried to do that, it crashed once again. is it too late to do anything about this? am i wasting my time? am i going to have to replace it?? it is a compaq with memory card readers. right now the fans turn on high and all it has is a blank screen where the &quot;windows xp&quot; loading thing should be at. i probably need to replace my samsung color laser printer. look at the items on my profile for pictures of what they look like. at least i don't have to get an entire system since i have a mouse & keyboard & 19&quot; lcd monitor.
try opening the system case and place a household fan to blow-in and see if that helps. understand, if the room temp is outrageously hot or humid, that it maybe too much and far more attention to cooling is required. if you continue to operate the system is such conditions w/o proper cooling it can only lead to a failure of some sort. tada -----willy
i have moved the computer to a much cooler location in an air conditioned room. in addition to cooling it off with a fan, would vacuuming the inside of it help get rid of any dust it might have?? i tried to re-install the operating system, and it says that the hard drive can't be formatted, so the hard drive is really messed up. i looked at the prices of a replacement, and also possibly a new operating system, and both of these prices are reasonable, i am just worried that installing a new hard drive on the affected computer system might possibly damage the new hard drive or something.
i knew i needed a new hard drive. i got a new one. the fans broke, as in the blades fell off... wow. but the people that fixed it installed new fans and thermostats that says what the computer's temperature is, and has a control of how high the fans are. right now the fans are set to 100%. there are several other things that came with the repaired computer.
