when did you first start using a personal computer? 1960s (was it even a personal computer?) 1970s (what computer was it?) 1980s (what computer was it?) 1990s (what computer was it?) 2000s (what computer was it?) just starting now (so what do you think of it?) if you have a story behind your first personal computer use, get nostalgic and tell us all about it! we'd love to hear about it.
my 1st brought computer was a pcjr.(don't laugh). at least i was able to transfer alot of pgms. and data later to a pc clone. i did play with atari and appleii for awhile but felt s/w was limited as in my budget at the time. however, i do remember playing with a pet(comadore?) in hs. i thought this was only a toy at the time, but it got me out of another boring class. i did work on burroughs(1st computer job, late 70's) systems for awhile, but only in sections of it and really it was shared system for the repair depot/center at the time. it's been so long, i don't rememebr the model#'s any more, i think 90 or 900. many of these were used banks & govt. sites, so fixing them was serious business. pcs didn't show up until much later in any common use. but, repairs for tandy one(you know the 1st useful system)systems were done and users really put them to tasks outside of what thier mainframe or mini-system couldn't and for some dept.. that's my story. -----willy
did work on burroughs machines but started in 1969. first pc was an ibm &quot;classic&quot; upgraded to 256mb of memory and 2 single-sided, single-density 5.25&quot; floppy drives. epson 80 character dot-matrix printer. i later upgraded to a 5mb hard drive. cost me over $600! talk about feeling old!! and life goes on... jack p.s. hey willy, wanna reminisce?
i think this was the model of my first computer, a ti-99 4a. they sold them cheap about 1980. the only storage system was a tape recorder with a counter so you could retreive your program. the computer sounded like a modem when it stored the programs. we used an old tv for a monitor. i remember it a programming similiar to apple-soft. it came with a program to make a man on a screen. i modified the program so he would move. it would be 4 years later when i used apple 11e that i learned how to use a disk drive. i programmed my own word processor in applesoft basic. the next year i had a friend who bought an ibm 286. it had a 20mb hard drive. at the time, people thought no one would need a bigger hard drive. bill
i bought my ti99-4a in 1983. it was so cool! 32k (yes k) of ram, built in os and basic plus a color display. (well it was color if you hooked it up to a color television) in all honesty, it was pretty darn cool for 1983. at first i only had cassette tape for storage. but soon i got a single sided single density 5.25 in floppy drive. i had a multiplan spreadsheet cartridge and actually tracked financial information with it. i used the ti99-4a for several years for entertainment and real work. i finally replaced it with a 286 that ran dos in 1988.
in 1984 i was working in a structural engineer's office, and they had me use an ibm for typing client documents. the screen looked like dos (no gui) and had a: and b: drives. i had to code in text attributes the same way we do in html today (&lt;b&gt;&lt;/b&gt; or &lt;i&gt;&lt;/i&gt;, etc.). one day the boss brought in a brand new apple computer with the funny model name of macintosh, and he let me play around on it. that's when the computer bug bit me, and i've been happily pcing ever since in both windows and mac oses! :o)
my first was a tandy, trs-80 model 1. 16kb ram, a cassete tape drive adn very few apps. it forced me to learn basic programming in order to make real use of the system. it was god awful slow and dummer than dirt compared with the cheapest cell phone today.
my first 12/1969 commador vic 20, 2nd 03/1980 c-64. i miss my c-64, that was a great little machine. ran all the atari games and accepted the atari joy stick. the color was great. my favorite games were choplifter,zaxxon, and zaxxon 3d. anyone know if either of those games were ever made for the pc? i may just have to by another c-64. i looked at all the retro's but no one has produced those 2 games. message was edited by: admin to remove email address to prevent spam bots from picking it up
does the name, wang, ring bell for anyone?? lol!! my undergrad alma mater had a wang in the natural sciences building. what a monster that thing was!!
sorry... that wasn't a pc was it? never mind.
my first was the 128k macintosh released in 1984. yes, the first mac, one of the more reliable computers i have used. i still have it and will turn it on just to turn it on and see how much has changed from the 1st mac to the imac and osx.
apple iic about 1984. no hd, built in green monitor. appleworks program provided first experience with wordprocessors and spreadsheets. most of that has not fundamentally changed. example: control-c for copy and control-v for paste or insert were apple-c and apple-v respectively. (apple was a key on the iic.) the closest thing to the internet was a subscription to compuserve where you used cryptic commands and waited a reply. like &quot;go wea lax&quot; i think to get the weather in la. the &quot;fast&quot; response would come trickling across the monitor in simple text that could be seen moving from left to right. a paragraph could take several seconds. wow! printing was on dot-matrix printers. media for programs and data was with 5.25&quot; floppys that had to be shifted in and out. i had an external floppy drive in addition to the built in drive which saved a few steps. (all programs were on floppies because there was no hd.) surprise- it never crashed, ever. that came later with ms-dos pcs. though i have used windows exclusively since because of compatibility with workplace programs, i've always had a 'soft' spot for apple computers - and may again go back.
technically the first computer i remember using was the apple 2 in elementary school in the early 1990's. in 94 my uncle gave my family his commodore 64 setup with everything he had. then in 1999 i got my first internet pc. i believe it was a cyrix 2 366mhz emachines.
i learned some light coding, which is a bit surprising even to me because i was born in 83. it wasn't anything impressive, just having my name flash on the screen and some simple math problems. it also forced me to spell &quot;catalog&quot; because in order to play most games i had to type that. it would have also helped if the machine didn't have a qwerty keyboard; i definitely did not understand why they put the letter in &quot;random&quot; order. the talking whiz kid had a much easier keyboard to find the letters. oh yeah we also had a talking whiz kid which we got about the same time as the apple iie, but it did not have nearly as many fun games as the apple. the best game was mario bros. i played that all the time with my sister, and apparently it was a bootleg game because it was never actually released for the apple iie.
the year is 1986 my first computer mmm forgot its name... something z80 then to the comodore8 or was it 16 nightmare stuff, then the amiga 500 and finally the xt with a 10mb hard disk. computers have come a long way, so have i, at the age of mid thirties, i cried when i first had to use an windows environment to type a letter... think i knew something... of the trials and tribulations of windows... save us from bad microsoft programming. i had left the country town of griffith to the big city of sydney to learn about computers i could see they were the future way... i wanted to become a programmer, but soon learned my maths was sorely learned and a major handicap to becoming a good programmer so decided to paint instead, and set up an online gallery at  have fun jenny
i recall paying $4200 canadian for it including free delivery and setup in december 1983. plus another grand for a dot matrix printer that never worked. but that computer was built like a tank and wordperfect 3.0 worked just fine on that green monochrome monitor. and it never broke! if only i'd waited a month i would have been first in line for the first mac. i suffered through several windows incarnations on a perpetually upgraded pentium pc until dumping everything for mac's in 2002 and i feel i've gotten my original non-breaking pc productivity back.
my first computer i built was the cosmac elf, now that is old.
the zenith 248. no training in how to use it, just some manuals and disks. i learned how to turn it on only to be greeted by a blinking cursor following the c:&gt; prompt. i had just learned how to use the xerox 860 word processor then to have this dumped on my desk. oh, i was in the u.s. navy and was soon to deploy aboard the uss nimitz in 1985. such was my introduction to ms-dos and the personal computer.
it was a hp pavilian.. umm.. 7000 or something.
and it was only for items i was picking-up for our branch, so very little per time spent overall...(unless you can count hands of solitare). but i got my 1 st home pc end 2001. bought it used & it was a compaq w/ 8gb hd, and 64k memory..it had win98, and i upgraded to 98se,but i learned alot from trial and mostly error. and when i got my new hp in 2003 i turned around and sold it to someone who was also was their 1st home pc.
i remember it well. it's stinn going. windows me. sold to a friend. rick
my wife's brokered generic 486 with windows 3.1, 360 mb hdd which the broker set up as compressed. do you know how long it takes to defrag a compressed c: drive? i wasted lots of saturday mornings in the basement doing just that. and i was backing up my documents on 3.5 inch floppies. including aol's download folders which included four copies of powertools! when i had to install a replacement fdd three years later, i bought a dummies book to get through it. and then had to install a modem card and that was an adventure. now i am retired and doing pro bono computer repair for elderly (older than me!!) folks!! desktop? wasn't any such animal then!
although not a &quot;personal&quot; computer, the ibm magtape word processor we used at work was a far cry from the normal ibm selectrics of that day. this monster whirred, snorted, ground gears, and maybe tooted as it wrote typed words onto reels of tape. it was great as long as nothing had to be edited. if so, one broke sweat trying to find the beginning frame of the document, then the beginning of the part that had to be edited, ad infinitum. we hired one person to work the thing, and 6 months later she began to get proficient. my first strictly personal machine was a ti 99/4a bought in i think 1982.
it was an apple iie in an elementary school computer lab in 1991- i primarily used print shop on it to make cards and drawings. it had 2 floppy drives, a few kb of ram and that was about it. the first computers i owned were a 1996 panasonic toughbook cf-25 and a 1992 tandy 2500sx/20, which were decent machines for their respective time periods. the tandy was obtained in 1999, the toughbook was obtained in 2001, as my first desktop and notebook, respectively.
as i posted later in the forum, my first three computers were an apple iie, a dos-based tandy 2500sx/20 built in 1992 and a 1996 panasonic toughbook cf-25. the cheapest cell phone available today has more available brainpower than all three computers combined!!! also, i played around with basic for some things, but have never really needed it since my first experience with windows 9x/me (which was in high school, in 1999, a full four years after windows 95 launched).
hi ya...my first computer was a c-64. then went on to a 286, 486...etc. you can download dosbox and use it to play lots of those old games. ultimate wizard was my favorite c-64 game. check out  for lots of links. have fun!
i was a special education teacher and we used apple's at work starting in the early 1980s. they had one floppy drive, no hard drive, green monatone screens. i bought an apple iic for myself in 1986 and took a class in basic and tried to convert it to apple basic for myself. thanks for asking the question. it is fun to surf down memory lane. margie, a first time poster.
my first computer was an xt model, with a harris 8086 processor. i didnot have a choice in getting one as i desperately needed it for uni. i paid over 1000 for it in south africa, it was the dogs proverbial at the time, within 6 months the at 80286 was on the market, from there the cpu chip rapidly changed in capabilities and price. i kept the xt 8086 until 1993 when i left to come home, it was still working as well as the day i bought it. the hard drive was a conner 40mb, all the ram was plugged as chips straight into the motherboard. according to my inlaws it is still going well.
and i bought a tandy that actually had a hard drive, which i guess not every computer had in those days! i really loved the deskmate software. it was easier to use than dos and the early version od windows; however, they had knowledge that windows was on it's way - when i inset\rted a disk with a microsoft program, i got a message saying something like: this product is not equipped for windows.
basic was great fun! pmsl
it was 1980 or 81 and i forked over $999 for an all-in-one keyboard/cpu/monitor with no storage except a cassette tape recorder (sold separately). it came with a whole 16k (not meg) of memory and a black and white tv tube for the monitor. i maxed it out with 48k of ram, added two 180k single-side 5 1/4&quot; floppies, a serial port and &quot;level 2 basic&quot; (wow, level 2 no less) for an added cost of about $1200. that doesn't count the $850 dot matrix printer just in case i wanted to print something from a word processor (oops, i didn't have one of those). i bought mine while i was in the navy living on the ship. i rented a motel room for the weekend and started learning basic. luckily i had somewhere to store it onboard. the most use i got from it was learning to program and cruising the &quot;bulletin boards&quot; with my super fast hayes smartmodem 300 (thats 300 baud). those were the days when nothing was compatible with anything else. the good thing about that is there weren't any viruses either.
the spectrum zx81 ! wow what a power house . then the commodor 64 followed by the amiga 500 (i think) bbc miro , atari 520 / 1040 st the atari`s i used for music with cubase the only one i attempted to program (in basic ) was the bbc micro , wow great times typing programs on store demo machines in c1981 then watching with great pleasure as the sales staff scratched there heads as how to remove my name (or whatever , ahem cough cough) i had flashing all over the screen , like i said great times! ps never had an apricot though, anyone remember those, what happend to them ?
my first pc was an amstrad computer. it had a 4 digit processor number (8086 or 8088, i forget which) and had two 5-1/4 floppy drives and no hard drive at all. you had the operating system (dos 3, i believe) on one floppy and your application on another. my next one was a screamer: 80486 running at 66 mhz with a 540mb hard drive and a 3.5 floppy drive and cd rom drive.
i worked at the depot here in ohio. many a componet or device was sent back for repairs/rebuild. the logic modules on devices were before ics became common, descrete componets and i replaced many a &quot;top hat&quot; xsister. fixed many a &quot;decoder&quot; for the teller machine for banks. did you use any &quot;marvel mystery oil&quot; as some techs did to help keep the solenoids from freezing and thus not change a decoder. i cut my fingers on those dang steel bands!!! an old bench tech taught me the quick and easy way to replace and bother it made a difference. saw the 1st tape cart drives, plessley drives, cermanic drives, huge printers, huge hds, heck the compressor alone was good for home projects. thanks for the trip back... -----willy
hey my first computer was a vic20 i bought at a montgomery wards store. i had a cassette player i hooked up to it and loaded software from cassettes. i had a 13 inch black and white tv i connected to it for the monitor. i remembered ordering software collections on cassettes from ads that were in some of the early magazines. one of the most frustrating things i remember was trying to figure out where a program would start on the cassettes. you would fast forward or rewind to get close and then you had to hit play and it would load when it found it. kept that computer for a while and then got a compuadd 4.77 mhz pc-xt clone with a 20mb hard drive. that was a great improvement for the time. bought a 300 baud modem for it and could dial into the bbs's. that was pretty cool back then. could download some things but you had be sure and matchup the protocols (remember zmodem). next pc was a gateway 486dx2..... great memories.
i was born on 1991 so a im 16 right now my first computer was when i was 4 my dad bought a macintosh quadra 610 and i liked it a lot specialy for games and drawing... i had that computer iuntil 1997 because i used at school windows computers and i started to hate the mac because i had no new games jaja that was when i got my first pc a compaq presario 3333 with windows that was also the first time i new the internet and i still love it! then in 2001 i bought a sony vaio desktop with windows xp, then a dell inspiron 8600 and finally in 2006 i bought my vaio notebook with vista.
hey, a fellow nimitz man. i was on the nimitz from '80-'84. i hear now they have the internet and telephones. i guess that kind of takes the excitement out of hearing those words &quot;mail call&quot;.
10 print&quot;hear hear pmsl 2&quot; 20 goto 10
how did i forget this beauty?! it was an amstrad c 1984/5 really handy as the cassette deck was built in , well stuck on the end . its really bugging me as i cant recall its full designation , erm they were navy blue if that helps jog anyones memory?
that would make it 1989... the thing had 64 kb of memory, and had to be hooked on a tv... it could load games by a usb key (lol), actually, the only way to feed it some data was through a tape recorder... later 5 inch soft floppy came out, but it was too damn expensive for me to get... since then i've gone through - 4x86 @ 66 mhz with 4 mb ram and 512 mb hard disk - pentium 1 @ 133 mhz with 16 mb ram and 1 gb hard disk (and a cd drive) - pentium 3 @ 450 mhz with 128 mb ram and 10 gb hard disk (and a cd burner) - pentium 3 @ 550 mhz with 64 mb ram (first laptop @ home) - pentium 3 @ 800 mhz with 64 mb ram (biggest crap i've purchased from hp) (and a dvd rom) - p4 @ 2.6 ghz (quite a jump, but happened in 2-3 years time) with 1 gb ram and 120 gb hard drive (wow... 2-3 years) (and a dvd burner) - crapbook pro - core 2 duo @ 2.0 ghz, 2 gb ram... a modern day machine (for now) that's about 7 months old now... wow... time flies... i'll be 30 before i know it...
the first computer i used was a commodore vic 20, back in 1982 or 83 i think, and the first computer i owned was a commodore 64, which i think i got in 1984. i had an okimate 10 color thermal printer that at the time was hot stuff. that was also the first computer that i ever used to connect to my first bbs, using my lightning fast 300 baud modem. at that speed, simply chatting on a ddial with 3 or 4 other people would sometimes have you backlogged for minutes, unable to keep up with the conversation. when i got my first 1200 baud modem (which someone kindly donated to me), i thought it was the best thing since sliced bread! commodore 64s were great for games, far better than any equivalent ibm pcs at the time, but they weren't great for much else. the first &quot;real&quot; computer i owned was an antiquated tandy 1000-25 ibm compatible that i got in 1989. it was an xt, but technically it only ran at about 4mhz, not even the full 4.77 mhz that an xt should. this computer was so slow it wasn't even funny, and it certainly didn't have a hard drive, just dual 5.25, low density floppies. in fact, radio shack who manufactured the tandy line, claimed this computer wasn't capable of supporting a hard drive under any circumstances. i found that out after spending countless hours trying to install a 10mb, full height mfm hard drive brick into it. amazingly though, a good friend of mine who was a computer guru in the true sense of the word, figured out somehow that if he soldered a small piece of metal onto the mfm controller, he could get the controller and the system to recognize the drive and we eventually got the whopping 10mb hard drive installed. things were definitely different back in the day... dos ruled and when windows came along, 3.11 loaded faster on an 8mhz 286 with 256k ram and a dog slow mfm hard drive than xp does now on a 3ghz dual core p4 with 4 gigs of ram and a 10,000 rpm ide drive. none of that plug and play crap, it was all about jumpers, com ports, and irqs. your bios was on a floppy disk and if you misplaced it you might as well throw your computer away. no internet to find and download drivers from or find information about anything, though a small percentage of companies by the early to mid 90s had a bbs, but they usually didn't have much on them and trying to find the # of the bbs to begin with wasn't easy. 16 color ega graphics were hot and 256 color vga graphics were the wave of the future. if you had an 8-bit sound blaster you were the man. oh and let's not forget there was no such thing as email, just messages posted on bulletin boards. cd-rom drive? what's a cd-rom? on the flip side, viruses were almost non-existent and only propogated by attaching themselves to files on your floppy, so it wasn't that hard to protect yourself and everyone used dos based mcafee vscan. there was no such thing as spyware or adware, what a wonderful thing! things were a lot simpler in many ways, more difficult in others. i have some fond memories of computers in the 80s and early 90s, but i wouldn't want to go back .
i believe this gentleman means kilobits of memory not megabits... i needed {4} pieces of 256k to make 1m of sipp memory... and i thought i was a hot-rod at the time
i worked on honeywell mainframes from 1968, h800, h1800, h8200 , but my first pc was something called a &quot;superbrain&quot;. have no idea who built it. you pushed 7&quot; floppy discs vertically into a drive beside the screen and the keyboard was attached.....used to take ages to &quot;update&quot; your spreadsheet every time you made a new entry, so there was an option to not update the spreadsheet until you had finished all your new entries.
amiga 1000 baby! yeah! so much better than the other machines out at that time. amiga forever! total shame that they couldn't compete in that market. amiga games were awesome!
i use windows xp & deleted some digital photo files. can i retrieve them from the hard disk?
1982 televideo ts-802 running cp/m os. it ran a terminal emulation. visicalc and wordstar were the only programs it had on it
the timex/sinclair zx80. was available as a kit that you put together yourself and sold for $100.00. it came with 1k ram and 16k rom and for another $40.00 was expanable to 16k ram. i was a great way to learn basic programming and for a time was a very popular computer based ob the zilog z80 processor. allan
when i worked for a law firm the summer of my 2nd year of law school (1981) the firm had a wang room. climate controlled; you had to put things to be typed through a little window. they let me do part of my law review article on it. (i'd started with the law schools trs-80). you had to climb up onto a little platform with a special seat. my very first computer was a nameless little thing that had a cassette tape drive and used the tv as a screen. in 1985 we got a ibm, whichever model was before the at. i too learned basic and told my young son that if he ever typed &quot;format&quot; lightning would strike him dead. but my very first computer experience, indirectly, was in 1967 while my then husband was in grad school. he typed his programs (in fortan, i think) onto little punch cards and submitted them to what i faultily recall as robed priests at the stanford computer center. i used to go over with him in the middle of the night; there was a priestless reader available where you could run your punch cards through and it would print out whatever was on them. so i would type out letters home on punchcards and then print them. so cool to send letters on wide lined computer paper.
first computer i used was an atari 400 in the early 1980s....i also have used a tandy trs-80 (in school & in the early 90s at the veterinary clinic i worked for).
my first pc is one i built for a company i worked for, it came in kit form. it was a sol processor tech. i believe main memory was 4 or 8k. you loaded each piece of software with a cassette deck. we used it run software in a chemical lab. it's side pannels were made of wood, very decorative.
i saved up money from my paper route and bought an ohio scientific os2. it had a 6502 chip and 8k of ram, which i had to install myself. i used an old bw television for the monitor and a monkey wards tape recorder. my next computer i got with money from selling my x-men comic book collection. i bought a commodore vic20. i already knew a little basic, so i had a lot fun with that one. even learned a little assembly language. i traded it for an atari 400. worst decision ever!
i was about 4 years old, and while i can't remember what that first computer was specifically, i am pretty sure it was an ibm. a couple ??? of years later we got a tandy 1000, and then we had many different upgrades, new(ish) systems and accessory add-ons in the years after that (another approx. 12 or so years while i was still at home with my parents).
the first computer i ever touched was an apple iie at school. a year or two later, my uncle bought a commodore 64, the first computer in the family. the first computer i ever owned personally was an acer 286 sx2 (i think it was 16 mhz) with 640 kb ram, 5-1/4&quot; floppy (a:), 3-1/2&quot; floppy (b:), 40 mb hard drive, and dos 6.2. my grandpa gave it to me in the early 90s (i think it was '91 or '92), when he replaced it with a 486 running windows 3.1. my first printer was an epson 9-pin color dot matrix with 9 fonts. :p
well actually, although my first cpu was a trs-80 from radio shack, mine only came with 4k, yes, that was no typo, 4k of ram. later, we upgraded to 16k. the best part was having to use a monochrome monitor and tape cassette for storage. remeber the bbs (bulletin board service), otherwise known as the internet. it was so primitive back then. who would have guessed it would develop into what it is today! i think our first modem was 9kbps and all our computer games were text. they went something like: you have entered a dark room with a door on the right. ahead of you is a creature leering dangerously. would you like to: a) run back the way you came b)head for the door to the right c) fight the creature. ahhh, those days were great.
ya yes! a good old c-64!! i remember trying to format a 5 1/4 floppy disk and just couldn't do it! the command string in the book was wrong! remember that??? when i got the correct string i was as happy as a pig in (mud) hehe it used to break about once a week so it was back to the store where i bought it to get it replaced. i got smart after the second one that i took the circuit board out of and swapped it with the first one then took the first one back and got a new one! i did like the 64 and had fun with that thing. i did like choplifter so if you find anything about it please let me know. i found one close for a pc but that sure was a simple fun game. do you remember a game called stroker64? i won't go into details just yet but it was funny as can be. the good old days are gone forever! life goes on. ted
my first personal computer, when personal meant self not corporate solutions, was an osborne cpm with 2 floppies 180k each, 64kbytes, wordstar, supercalc, and basic. it cost 1,800. my first work computer was a tr(ash)80 model ii. we had electric typewrites everywhere. i even remember the debates over replacing manual typewriters with electric and the incessent arguments of apple vs ibm. visicalc with no commas and my md-mdot budgets were 1.2 billon dollars. oh spreadsheets were limited to about 32 kbytes. it really amazes me that excel still has never picked up some of the finer aspects of the long line of spreadsheets. i worked on a variety of computers including univac, rca and sds in the 60's. my first experience with memory costs is the story of two univac engineers who bumped into each other and dropped two 4k blocks of core memory costing an estimated 100k dollars. nothing but hand wound cores on the floor. wonder if they got fired? high speed lines in the military were 1200 baud. for those who mentioned wang, he was dr. wang, and he developed the single capstan tape drive. up to that time tape drives had to have two power capstans one each direction of the tape. does anyone remember &quot;i remember mama&quot;? newkiwi
my first computer was home made from an old popular science magazine! it explained how to use neon bulbs and a two 90 (yes 90) volt batteries and toggle switches! all it could do was add and subtract in binary! not good for anything but it worked and never crashed...just worked. so if anyone wants to know the sum of 100 plus 100 let me know. ted
i can't remember the model # but it was called the compac presario ultimate multimedia machine. i had very limited computing experience through my job but i didn't know much at all. this was in feb 1997. the computer had 24 megs ram and a 2 gig hd. it wasn't the fastest even then. but then, i didn't really know enough to need anything faster.
in the early 80's purchased a c-64 with a monitor.printer,floppy drive. that still works perfectly. my son who is in 3rd yr of college as a programmer used it not to long ago and worked super. also have a mess of c64 mags and games and programs. i originally purchased it to do secretary work for bowling leagues. anybody have a idea what it would be worth? might be interested in selling.
i remember when i got my first high speed modem. it ran at 72 baud! good for nothing but text. remember the good old days when you could truly share? boy i must be getting old! my bones are starting to hurt. it must be all those gigahertz getting to me.
sony put out one that used ms-x that stood for microsoft extended. yamaha was another who did the same. my first computer was a spectrovideoms-x that stoll a march on the others by including a 3.5 hd the game i enjoyed was child park, which i can't track down today. any help would be welcome.
...or maybe 1976. it's hard to remember way back then. anyway, it was one of the first radio shack trs-80's, complete with tape recorder i/o and 4k of ram. we thought we were really uptown when we upgraded it to 16k. i don't believe when we bought ours that there were any prewritten programs available, but the machine was equipped with a very basic version of basic, and we amused ourselves by writing our own. or at least we did when the computer was in working condition, which wasn't very often. i think ours was the original reason the machines got the nickname &quot;trash-80.&quot; it spent more time in the repair shop than it did on our desk, and eventually we were able, by dint of excellent record-keeping and threats of legal action, to return the thing and get our money back. about a year later we got an apple ii+ and found out what a real computer was. a few months later we got a second one and computerized our business. we'd have been apple users for life except for the fact that when they came out with hardware upgrades (the apple iie and subsequent models) they weren't backward compatible. all of our custom programming would have had to be rewritten, and there was no guarantee that the rewrites would work with the next version of the apples. so we continued to use the ii+es for as long as we could, then switched to ibm compatibles which had the advantage of backward compatibility. i was also one of the first windows users, as my business became heavily dependent on the use of adobe pagemaker with its run-time version of windows.
yes i went to the university of maryland after my 3 year stint as a western union computer tech. i too had the punch card experience though our assignment was the mondane sort routine in cobol. choice was bubble up or push down technique. wonder if anyone remembers those techniques.
i remember when the local computer club had a bulletin board. a programme or file would make its way across country from board to board in two or three days. pacman was high tech games. i remember spending a whole day customizing wordstar. and what about that 5 inch monochrome character based screen...sexy newkiwi
my first pc was a timex sinclair 1000 that i used for about two weeks - it was so limited in software and capabilities that i quickly upgraded to an atari 800 with the 410 tape drive (connected to a 13&quot; tv) - it was more affordable than a apple ii and was supported extremely well here in ohio. i still have these systems (and the atari still works). every few years i dig out the old stuff and plug everything together to make sure i remember what classic computing was like. there's nothing like waiting for a cassette tape shamus, blue max, jumpman or temple of asphai to load. the graphics and sound effects are crude compared to today's games but the hours i spent trying to advance from one level to the next were well spent.
i remember we had a xerox microcomputer at the health department. as i understand the history they actually come up with the first gui..graphical user interface for the very young..that's anyone under 50. xerox gave up on it. talk about a bad business decision. my understanding is msdos and cpm stole a lot from unix which was a bell labs product. remember when at&t owned or controlled the baby bells. after divestiture came the cell phone companies the supposed demise of at&t. now some of the behometh cell companies have crashed and burned and at&t is growing. the baby bells merged.. what change a lifetime has seen?
the first computer i remember using was a burroughs b6700 main frame at college in 1976. if you were lucky, you could go intereractive on the green sceen terminals, or one of the two graphics terminals. i remember we booked both graphics terminals one day and played 'star wars' on them. i think we took a good proportion of the processor cycles to do this. we also had commodore pets with the built in tape drives. i managed to collect a large number of games for this. my first home computer was a self assembled 'microtan 65', this was a kit consisting of a single board with 1k ram and a 6502 processor, storage was via cassette tape and the keyboard was 20 charactors. programming was in machine code. larger i bought an expansion board and 2k rom to run assembler. later i progressed to a bbc microcomputer which had a wordprocessor application in rom. i still have an amstrad pcw green screen computer which ran cp/m on a z80 processor. my working life saw texas ti99/4a, sinclair z80, spectrum 16 & 64 and ql, amstrad cpc and pcw, commodore vic 20, 64 and 128, atari, dragon, bbc, acorn, nortstar advantage (green screen, cp/m & mp/m and fixed format 5 1/4 floppy disc) as well as the ibm at. that was just the 70s and 80s. now working with thin clients.
the first computer i uses was the swedish abc 800 manufactured by luxor
hi! i'm a c-64 nostalgic too, though the first computer i got close to was a swtzc6800 (motorola 6800 based computer) with not built-in tape interface, which had nothing pre-loaded : you had to load basic langage first, from a regular tape recorder (not a special one) plugged into the above mentioned interface which looked like a boeing control board. once basic was loaded (several minutes), you could begin programming... or load your program from the same tape recorder. the funniest about it was, guess what, it had no screen! no kidding, the user interface was...the printer : a telex printer with a keyboard that did the noise of a trash crusher truck : teleprinter ksr430 : look at this  it was the computer's age of bronze (not stone). later i got a c64 that was customized (a reset button was added close to the joystick port). at school, they had some apple ii (c and e i think), i still remember the magic of simon's basic!! i remember stroker 64 too. lol. at university, i worked on a vax with vt240 and tektronix terminals, while at home, the pc niagara began : 8088+8087 (math copro), 80286-386-486-pentium i,ii,iii,pro, and on and on....
i had a cs100 course in 1968. we had no displays, but punch-cards. we made holes in the cards to represent code. the memory (ram) of the system was 64 kbytes. the first pc i used in 1983 was a portable osborne computer in the shape of a suitcase when packed. the operating system was cp/m and the memory was (again) 64 kbytes. it had a 6&quot; green on black display with two 5.25&quot; diskette drives and no hard disk. as everyone might know, the 5.25 diskettes had capacities of 460 kbytes. one of the drives was used for the software and the other for data. i used &quot;supercalc&quot; to calculate the 20-year projection of a 600-bed luxury hotel (sheraton) in ankara. when i started work in 1985 on the turkish encyclopedia britannica, our software manager came to me and asked that we should raise the capacity of our hard disk that was 5 mbytes to 20 mbytes because our relational database of encyclopedia headings was reaching 100,000. i bought one for 5,000 dollars paying cash! now i am writing this message on a lap-top with a centrino processor at 1.4 ghz and using a 60 gbyte hard disk with a 256 mbytes ram. next year, my relation with computers shall be 40 years old. kind regards, vedat cakmak, istanbul
your story parallels mine so much it was a little shocking. the ibm 360 came out when i was working in the ...pentagon for western union. i was a maintenance tech then. we had sds, scientific data systems, computers. their claim to fame was it was the first computer to use silicone transistors and heated memory which made them very stable if not fast. as i recall the hard disk drives looked like two pie pans bolted together with an unbelievable 1 meg of storage. that was in the late sixties. sds also was the moniker for the students for a democratic society to follow my university days. i think american needs to reactivate them. could it be that 1984 has now arrived? my osborne was the blue case. my original drives were 180 double sided. the originals were 90k. those were the days.. newkiwi
in the seventies i bought a commodore vic 20 for myself and kids. it ran on basic and we all learned the language. i bought a $30. printer for it which had to be reset for each line but it was fun and rather exciting to actually use it to write notes. the computer cost around $130. which i borrowed from a loan company i was so determined to get a computer. having always been interested in science i told my children that computers were going to be the machine of the future and they should learn everything they could about them. i bought several games for it. one was a mystery in which you had to find the pirate's gold. directions were in text--no graphics. it started out with a description of 3 objects on a table from which you had to choose, a rope, a pen or a pair of old sneakers. the sneakers was the correct choice. they were needed because later as you progressed you were forced to climb out a window and walk on a slippery ledge and without the sneakers you'd fall to your death. except for my husband, who wasn't interested in computers, our older kids and i took turns playing it. the youngest of my children who was old enough to use it was my 10 yr old daughter and she was the first to find the treasure--much to her 3 brothers' chagrin. a year or two later i bought a word processer and after than a 1985 ibm computer that ran dos, had word perfect and the real &quot;floppies.&quot; i bought a dandy little printer at a local thrift store for only ten bucks because the management didn't know a thing about it. it printed on paper rolls with holes on the sides to advance the pages. i used that until the mid nineties when i bought a gateway that ran windows 95 and came with a mouse! i didn't think i could ever get used to a mouse after using dos for so many years, but i finally managed. in 2002 i bought the computer i now use--another gateway. it runs xp and has an 80 gig hd which i thought huge back then but now that's so obsolete! ah, well....
i never experienced a computer with out a display except in the automobile. it took a second when you said vax. out of mass. this company made many mini computers. when i worked at the health department we pulled the old 911 emergency services computer out of the warehouse and setup a patient tracking system using mumps. the storage was the old disk packs. 4 or 6 plates to a pack, with i believe about 250 megs of storage. the environment was a raised floor room with its own environmental control.
sorry for double-posting. i'm used to forums where you can edit your posts, so consider this as an edit oups, it was not swtzc but swtpc. it looked like this :
i still remember sitting in the computer club and someone remarked that microsoft has the largest beta site in the world. us. at first i thought your tears were over joy but i realized. i also remember how the microsoft reps would talk about how windows would keep a bad application from crashing the system. what they failed to mention was the bad operating system crashing itself. young people know nothing of the those experiences. cp/m was the first standard operating system. however the diskettes all had manufacturer specific formats. to use a disk from a kaypro for example you had to use a product like media master which.. newkiwi
i got my first pc in 1993. it was an intel 486 dx2-66, it had 16meg of ram, a 512meg hd, a 15&quot; monitor, i added a video card with 8meg vram and a 16k modem for internet access. it was a full tower case. i upgraded it several times before they quit making the at format mbs. the last incarnation it went through was an amd k6-2 500, with 64meg ram and 30g hd, as well as an onboard dsl modem. i now have an amd sempron 2500+ with 1gig of ram and the video has 64meg which is ample at this time.
i got my first computer in 1983, it was an oric. it had no hard drive and no screen so i had to use our tv to watch and and portable radio with tape recorder. the were not many programs available, mostly games but one could buy magazines and books with games to type in so my best fun these days were to type in the games and make them run. i loved it very much now i have both pc and a laptop. i use both, the pc run 24 hours a day and the laptop goes with me when travelling and when i am lazy and want to use a computer in my stress-less-chair, f.i. for playing solitairies or sudoku. grand-grandma in iceland
i started using pc's in the seventies. in fact my first pc was not really what most people called a pc, it was an ibm system 34. i worked during the holiday at ibm in amsterdam and i was given this system play with. i remember the first little program i wrote in basic really excited me. we then moved on to a version of pascal. towards the end of the seventies i was given an early version of an apple to work with in another job and bought my first pc, a ti99 (texas instruments). it was a great machine, but you could not really program to much yourself, so i replaced it with a bbc computer manufactured by acorn. this was truly a pc and i have kept it until today. its (at the time massive) memory of 64kb was a breakthrough. i don't really know what microsoft and intel have done to computers, but this old beasty still beats a pentium 4 with word in the area of processing. the wordprocessor loads instantly and there is no delays. everything may have become prettier, but i am not always convinced it got better. obviously you can't process video on these old 6502 processors, but these old machines were good.
ancient technology with dos the only option! i used it primarily to link, by phone, to the real estate mainframe for work purposes only. i left the rest of it for my young sons to use for their games. dos is beyond my mental abilities to grasp, although the concept is understandable, it never worked for me. thanks bill gates !! i am now better off and a puter geek at work!
in 1982 i bought a sinclair, which was somewhat similar to the ti99-4a. i screwed around with that for about a month, until i realized that it was merely an amusement and was never going to be of any use. i then bought a real computer, a transportable kaypro ii, with 64kb ram, cp/m operating system, one 5-1/4&quot; 190kb floppy drive, and bundled perfect writer and perfect calc. a year later, i bought an okidata 92 printer, and a kaypro 4, with two 5-1/4&quot; floppy drives, including dbase ii. after teaching myself how to program in dbase, i bought a copy of foxbase+, and used the kaypro/okidata and those software packages to run a contract builders hardware department for the next four years, until i finally enticed my boss to purchase a generic ms-dos &quot;lunchbox&quot; computer with a hard drive. it was a lot of work, and a lot of fun.
i really doubt it had 256 mbytes of memory. probably (and this really dates us!) 256 kbytes of memory. i think the max you could put in the machine was 640k...
when i was in college, we simulated (we wrote a 100,000 line fortran program) the burroughs e103. it was the first &quot;desk&quot; computer. it was the desk. it was programmed by putting metal keys through holes to make connections. we ran the simulations on a xerox sigma 7. not sure this computer had a hundreth of the compute power this laptop has and we had 100+ students compiling fortran and pascal programs on it simultaneously. my first 'bought' computer was a compaq 'portable' (probably weighed in at over 40 lbs). had 256k of memory, 10meg (wow, who would ever need this much space!) hard disk and a black and white cathode-ray screen built in. put a 1200baud modem in it. whole thing cost almost $6,000. i remember paying for it with a car loan...
my first was a timex-sinclare, it didn't do much but i had a lot of fun with it. next was the vic-20 then commodore 64(which i still xhave), nest was the 128. shortly after i graduated to the apple ii, learned basic, fortran and pascal.....what's that??
first computer was a &quot;kapro&quot;, at a lumber yard, who ever sold the unit to the company for estimating purposes didn't know lumber, so they assigned numbers to the sizes, when the sizes themselves were numbers, always needed 6 digits, 2x4x8 could have been 000248, but instead it was an off the wall number. the time the computer saved was more than used up by the need not only to memorize, but to have someone go over work carefully. company also had an ibm mainframe, it had it's own &quot;very large office&quot;, people did shifts because it was so cold in that room.
1979 - trs-80 level 1, 4k memory, cassette recorder input. i made my first computer upgrade when i went to 16k. still have a box of cassettes with games somewhere. learned to tweak the system pretty well from articles by dennis bathory kisitz in 80-microcomputing. learned native machine language to speed up some basic games. the machine is still in by basement with the ten other machines i've had through the years. larry
my first pc was of mitac brand, an xt computer that was bought in 1985. it had basic interpreter language with which i programmed a lot. i made an analog clock programme, universal calendar i.e. eternal calendar programme, climatological regression model and a lot more. at end i.e. in 1992 i developed storm track prediction model (pc-based, dos). this moderl got 13th saarc (south asian association for regional cooperation) young scientist's award in 1995. it is still my dream. i used many advanced computers later on like pentium 4, pentium duel core, hp workstations etc. but i cant forget that mitac computers that i used first.
packard bell 667 mghz in 1995 now conroe, 8800gts, asus mb, crucial ballitix tracer 2x1gb ect.
my first personal computer was an ibn 8088 and i wanted to upgrade my ibm 7&quot; monitor to a colour 7&quot; monitor. the price was $3,000.00 but i was able to get a deal from a department store that decided to get out of computer sales and paid $1,500.00. should have waited!
i have been working with computers and/or personal computers since the mid to late 70's. you kids don't appreciate the early days. i started with data cassettes moving to sdsd 8&quot; floppy's, a 4 part personal computer ($5,400.) with a whopping 4k of ram for processing, and 2k allocated for the rs232 port to the printer. this was pre- parallel, rs-449, usb, fireware and other type ports. we built a custom cable with every purchase piece of hardware. a 300bps modem cost you 2x weeks pay and then a few bucks a month to use a bbs. rf-tv modulators were common instead of crt's. printers cost $495 for okidata 8x8 dot matrix, but you could get cheap reel-to-reel typewriter ribbons from about any store for a dollar. i have owned: ti99a'a, commodores, eagle pc, leading edge, ibm clones, apples ii's, a fat mac 128k, yes even a buggy lisa and cmp based kaypro 10. yes we have seen wonderful leaps in technology in 25+ years, but vendors have over used pre-planned plastic product failure points, vendor only supplies like ink and software with extremely over planned obsolescence. i really dislike s/w vendors who jump versions #'s just to avoid free upgrades so they suck a users wallets dry. some food for thought: we have seen media formats evolve from stone to various handwritten scrolls materials to printed manuscripts over a 10,000 year period. all of these were readable by anyone with good eyesight and the ability to understand used the language. it wasnt until the computer age, in the last 40 years that man was no longer able to read to the words he had written without a device other than his own eyes. with written media formats changing about every 10 years or so (punch cards, printer paper, data cassette, 8-5.25- 3.5- cd dvd memory sticks and etc.) we are never more than 1 media format from losing a generation of valuable information. written books always have a very special and viable place in my house. after all, i find it difficult to curl up to a warm laptop, on a rainy day, to read a good novel, on a dvd or cd or a memory stick. darn i sound like my father giving me the &quot;i walk to school in the snow and loved it.&quot; speech when i complained about riding a cold school bus. later, old1
first personal computer was in 1984. it was an epson qx10 with dual floppy drives (5.25) and 256k of memory. it was quite high-end at the time. it ran cp/m and an integrated office suite called &quot;valdocs&quot; for valuable documents. it got me through law school and made all the difference in the world. no hiring a typist. i could do revisions up to the last minute. it got me hooked. i used it all the way until 1990, when i bought my first mac.
yeah, remember programming in basic? remember the luxury of 80 column screens versus 40? remember the vic (only 20 columns)? remember how 64k seemed like oodles of memory then, and oh my gosh, affordable color computers (in just 256 solid colors)? remember using cassette tapes and rewinding the tapes to store and find programs? remember the luxury of actually owning your own floppy disk drive? etc
hp pavilion 6460 400 hhz slot 1 celeron cpu with a 10 g hard drive and 96 mb of pc66 ram. a real burner by 1998 standards. 2 years later it was headed for the scrap pile, beat out by p3 600 mhz
early 70's i think... i had been a programmer since 1964, and read as much computer stuff as i could get a hold of, so when the imsai kit was announced i had to have it. my wife was a programmer also which made it easier to justify the high cost of my hobby. i had been a design engineer in the design labs at ncr working on their early mainframe computers in 1960, so the idea of assembling a kit computer didn't bother me at all. my imsai 8080 (serial # 17) was a s100 bus machine with an intel 8080 processor. it initially used front panel switches to load a boot up program in binary form (a real pain), that in turn could access the only i/o device i had at first, a teletype ksr unit. the kit had 1 memory board with 4 k of ram originally, that i eventually maxed out at 64 k. i eventually added 4 of the 8&quot; double sided floppy disk drives as well as a kit built keyboard, a monochrome monitor, 1200 baud modem, and an anadex dot matrix printer. this all became a good little machine including digital research's cpm for it's operating system. i finally built my 1st &quot;pc style&quot; machine with ms dos in 1985, and am still reluctantly in the camp of m$. every once in a while i'll dip my toe into the linux pond, but i've avoided jumping in, and at 70, i doubt i will.
we got a trs-80 color computer in december 1983. it used a tape recorder as a tape drive instead of floppies, and no hard drive. there was not a monitor, you hooked it up to a tv. not long after that, i got to use a trs-80 with dual floppy drives (5.25 single sided), when i took a basic programing course.
well, i started very early, my first pc was an 8086 from ibm, 64k of memory, cga display and a low density diskette unit. lol, then my father buys a ibm pc286, of 8mhz and 640k of memory, then some years later i changed to a ibm 386mhz, hdd of 60mb, an 4mb of memory and as a showing of riches lol, we set it with an adlib gold sound card.
as far as i can remember, the first computer i used was way back when we had a compaq portable. if i remember correctly, that was in the early 90's. i used to play pacman and wheel of fortune on that compaq for hours. it ran dos of course.
in the 80's i had a commador that i played a couple of games on, but the kids wrecked it and it wasn't til the early 90's when my cousin who was a vice-president of a retailer called software, etc. was upgrading their computers and sold me an ibm xt with a dot matrix printer, and like they say, &quot;the rest is history&quot;. i now own 2 pc's and just last fall purchased the latest laptop from toshiba that i use when we travel. my wife complains i spend more time with my computers than i do with her. she's probably right.
i know it dates me, but anyone out there remember the monrobot? it was a special purpose computer that was built by monroe calculator for gulf oil corp. the one i worked on was at the port of ft. lauderdale, had a baudot code based processor and was used to accumulate and transmit inventory and delivery data from the oil distribution centers to gulf oil's central office in jacksonville, fl. it had a 100 track, 10 inch drum memory that was driven by a leather belt that required continuous cleaning to keep the belt from squeeking. i helped maintain one when i was a student at university of miami, coral gables, fl back in the early 60's.
i first fell in love with computers in 1983 when the first clones of apple ii-style keyboard and cpu units were available in the philippines. as a college student living in a 3rd world country, we were not given an affordable choice with regards to computers back then. as far as i can remember, the system was ms-dos and i have to put in a special card (i forgot the name of this card, can anyone help me remember it?) in order for the monitor to display small characters. it didn't have a hard drive and uses 5.25 in. floppy disk. when i made a trip to taiwan in 1984 i bought my first pc there and had to carry it all the way back to cebu, philippines. it was such a wonderful memory. thanks for helping me remiscise it. now, i'm using an hp pavillion laptop with pentium iv 2.0 ghz and 1 gb ram, windows xp and i still love my pc. regards, edwin
1981 and it was an apple 2c. i still have it and it still works with it's green screen and 64k memory (yes 64k)! someone looking at it today one would say that it is nothing but a word processor, but in 1981 it was the latest technology - goodbye typewriters!
in was 1982. the 8th grade science fair had just finished and a friend built a sinclair zx81 kit computer that he failed to get working. but that didn't matter to me and my friends; our love affair with these new machines was set in stone. the atari vcs was at it's peak despite the release of a *very* disappointing rendition of pac-man. me and my friends were already &quot;computer crazy&quot;. not one of us owned a game machine like the vcs or odyssey-2 (intellivision was still a year away). we were holding out for full-fledged computers. after prolonged begging and extolling the virtues of the &quot;commodore vic-20&quot; to get my parents, my high-school drop-out step-father revealed that he has been looking at computers and found the &quot;atari 400&quot; to be the superior machine. i disagreed and we immediately went to the mall to compare the two. the computer store in the mall had an atari 400 parked in front running a near perfect rendition of pac-man that was attracting customers like flies. the 400's flat membrane keyboard was a real turn-off, but when i learned it came with nearly three times as much memory (16k) as the vic-20 (which, despite its name, only came with 5k), and seeing the quality of the game that was running, i quickly concluded the atari-400 was the better machine. rare was the time i admitted my step-father was right, so he immediately bought a 400 on the spot. to our disappointment though, they were out of pac-man cartridges, so i had to settle for a low-quality game stored on cassette tape called &quot;maze of death&quot;. in the years to come, i taught myself how to program in basic and even started dabbling in &quot;assembly language&quot;. by the time i reached college, i had a huge jump-start on the other students and aced every programming course.
radio shack trs-80 micro color computer mc-10. it came with 4kb, but only usable about 3.4kb i bought the 16kb expansion so it was 19.4kb. 1982
and played zork, used bank street writer
all you guys have more computer experience in your pinkies then i have in my life time, my first computer was a 486, and i took it apart, to see what the inside of a hard drive looked like , and the first computer i personally bought was an hp media center.... xd....
my first was an atari 800xl with 300 baud modem and drawing tablet plotter printer, dot matrix printer and 3 floppy drives chained together cost over 1800 canadian my girls loved playing games on it i used it up until 1997 for word processing and finally bought a hp pavilion.
wang, i fixed some monitors for them way back. alot of users really had a wang following, but then wang sold out or was brought out. our co. brought out data 100, so you know we had some old equipment. does that feel any better? -----willy
it's easier to down load a c=64 emulator from the net than trying to find old machines and working software (the magnetic disks deteriorate). try googling emulators c=64. chrisjw@optonline.net
i used a ti 99 added cassette back up and when they had it a 360 floppy disk. those were the good old old days jon_2002
feb 5,2005 was the purchase of a pii. the man i bought it from was a programer for raytheon,and it was for his daughter.so, i'm very new to p.c.'s,but i've learned allot since that first purchase. basically i've learned that i've allot to learn!i've gone from the pii to a piv generic(no company like dell,compaq,etc.)and the xp pro os won't work on it because it's not a dell.
my first personal computing consisted of a key board and a modem. i loged on to a remote computer at work.
remember those magic words....if then, for next, goto. i think your talking about sprites. little more then animated icons. do you remember the chess game? i thought i was in tall cotton when i bought it, about fifty bucks as i remember. boy did i want one of those peripheral expansion boxes with space for two floppy drives as i recall, maybe even a modem. i used it for about three years. taught myself how to type with it. anyone remember the little planes with the words on them. it had modules you could plug into the thing that did various applications. had advanced basic too for about $75.00 dollars. if memory serves me didn't the apple cost about $3,500.00 when it first came out. you could buy a good used car for that amount of money in those days. it was certainly worth the $200.00 dollars i payed for it.
the first computer i bought was in 1986, it was a commadore 128 which ran cp/m, c64, and c128 programs and i paid about $1000 for it plus a color monitor. in 1987 i bought my first amiga, a 500 also for about $1000 with monitor and in 1989 (or was it 90) i splurged and bought an amiga 4000 with a 68040 chip, 2 megs of chip ram and 8 megabite memory card with multi sync monitor for about $2500. i still use it its right next to the cheap pc clone i'm writing thir on. amiga forever pcs s*ck chrisjw@optonline.net
around 1982-83 i was a computer repair technician for ti. the ti99/4a was indeed a 16k computer, 32k with the memory expansion added. when the home computer division folded, i was privy to use the ti pro (8088 based 286-like clone). i built my first 286 clone, then moved to 386 and then 486. then i took a giant leap and went to an amd based 586 then athlon and athlon 64. during my foray into the ti pro i saw $500 non-smart modems, $600 5meg harddrives and the first internet tools(besides unix) written for os/2 and, lotus 123 that came on 4-5 5-1/4&quot; floppies due to it being written in assembly language. things have really taken off since then. i'm really glad to have seen the industry in it's infancy. ojon
i answered 1980's for pc use. it was an ibm xt in 1982. i had been using main frames (now workstations in a lan) since 1977 through the 1980's (until 1988). all the computer usage during the 1980's was at nasa/gsfc. after 1988 most facilities had distributed lan networks with individuals using workstations (sun, dell, gateway, etc...). does a stand-alone dec 11/23 (1982-1988) count as a pc?
in 1979, i bought one of the first atari 800 computers. the serial number was 0000258, and was handwritten on a sticker inside the machine. i still have it, along with the atari falcon that i bought later. the falcon was the first computer to have a true 1-mb of ram. i still have the falcon, as well.
a friend of mine had vic-20 and that piqued my interest for computers. it was about the time the c-128 came out, so i waited for it instead of buying a c-64. ended up running the 128 in 64 most of the time! another friend took an c-64 and set it up and ran a small bbs with it. those emulators work great. its like playing the real thing. the one i use even simulates the wait time for those programs to load from the floppy disk! sorry i cannot provide information about it, because i bought it at a trade show and there is no identifying information on it. does anyone remember the compute gazette! magazine written for commodore? thats where i got a lot of my games. the aforementioned cd has all of the old gazette! programs. no more bleary eyes in the wee hours of morning trying to sort out my gobus from gosub aaaaah, the good ole' days!
the computer filled a room. the core memory had 4400 words of ten characters in length. each character was 6 bits and, of course, it was not mine. i was one of a staff of programmers and we programmed in assembler. my first personal computer was a kaypro ii. anyone know when that beauty first appeared on the market?
i should have said 256kb instead of 256mb. my error entirely. back then i thought i was in hog heaven with that much. the machine came with 64k and since i was programming in cobol back then i felt i needed 256k for the compiler. i did. but it still took 30 min. to compile a few hundred lines of code. thanks for the correction... 256mb.... geeeeez what was i thinking? and life goes on... jack
those famous words were spoken by one bill gates. the pc had a max of 1 meg of ram but the top 360k were reserved for stuff so the max usable was 640k. then they stuffed things into the &quot;unusable&quot; part and we had emm386. oh yeah that was fun....
and not mb. see below. and life goes on... jack
... i have been maintaining computers for a career since 1963, when i enlisted in the air force. i am now retired. after 3 years, 10 months & 10 days of maintaining the computer systems (awcs) on f-101b & f-102a interceptors (some w/vacuum tubes!), i hired on with honeywell field engineering for 7 years as a computer field (service) engineer. i was laid off in 1974, went on to burroughs (now unisys), data general, c-3, inc. (mostly federal contractor), and ga technologies, inc., ending up as a technical training coordinator for radiation monitoring systems in nuclear power plants, for a total of 22 years. most of the computers were called, &quot;mediums systems&quot;, but some were 8086's tied to dec vax'es by serial rs-232 lines in the end. @ my (2nd) wife's insistence, i went back to school (i had 2 years of college b4 the air force) @ night & got an as, aa in business management in 1985, then went on to san diego state (sdsu) full-time for 2 years to finish a bs/ba in information systems in 1986. i eventually got a civil service job with the navy in 1988 here in san diego county as a computer specialist & retired in 2005 with 21 years as a gs-12 i.t. specialist in systems/network administration/management. my work was on concurrent/perkin elmer/masscomp medium systems & networked 286/386/486 pc's (self-taught). i never would've made it thru sdsu w/o my mac: i bought a mac in &quot;the 1st 100 days&quot;, on march 6, 1984 after seeing the super bowl ad in january & have had 1 ever since. it had 1 800/400 kb floppy drive, 256 kb of ram, no hd, a sharp b&w display, & an image writer dot-matrix printer. it was the 1st computer that i could see any use for @ home. i had turned down the opportunity to buy a full-blown apple iie clone in taiwan because i couldn't see what i would use it for! i hooked my mac up to the internet with a 1200/300 baud modem and spent many an &quot;all-nighter&quot; doing assignments after the on-campus computer labs were closed. in october, i will get the latest powerbook core 2 duo (or whatever) 15&quot; mactel laptop & pass this 15&quot; g4 mpb onto my wife (who is now using my 1996 g3 wallstreet). i will max. out the memory & get the largest/fastest hd i can for it, probably on the after market. i am grateful that pc's have given me a career but having seen all of the headaches they cause users & maintainers over the years, i have always found that the macs gave me a much better experience & life. i volunteer @ the local senior service center's computer lab teaching seniors how to survive with the computer of their choice -mac or pc. i am even more excited about using a mac now that they run the unix/linux os underneath the gui, because that was the os i learned in 1988, and i like it a lot. i may even use it on my new mactel powerbook in a partition! but no windows, ever!!!
side of it. i was a systems tester in the usaf. tested operating systems before they were released af-wide. in other words i broke them until they were fixed. let's not go there. first burroughs was a b-263. card input/output. but we digress from the topic. better quit before lee sends me a nasty note. btw: that 5mb hard drive was the first time i cracked open a case and installed it myself... with hands sweating, heart thumping and wife looking over my shoulder with a frying pan in her hand in case i screwed it up... and our $4,000 investment. and life goes on... jack
the introduction of technology has presented challenges for museums. can you imagine on sound/video alone how many devices will need to be available to read/play the material? take sound starting with the edison wax cylinder,16,33 1/3,78(?)and 45 rpm records, reel to reel(mono and multitrack), cassette, 8 track,cd, mini cd and dvd. how many watch/clock repair or shoe repair are there around these days? going the way of the returnable milk bottle and beer bottle.
the first personal computer that i used was an hp (can't remember the name), which was a portable witha small screen--similar to one from compact. it predated the ipm pc, but was probably concurrent with the first apple ii's. i learned visicalc using it, but quickly found that the desk type hp's did not use the same os, so i could not transfer the info from one to the other. i think this was in the fall of 1981 or 1982. the computers were owned by the company. taking the need to transfer data by the &quot;sneakerdisk&quot; method to heart, my first purchase of a personal computer was an ibm pc. this was to match the pc's that were purchased at my new employer for both design work and letters so that i could use the &quot;sneakernet&quot; approach. software was pfs write and file along with lotus 1-2-3. a lot of simple engineering design calculations could be made in spreadsheet format and templates, along with finance calculations. i recall an income tax estimator &quot;program&quot; (template). we also tracked my wife's business inventory using 1-2-3 for several years. shortly after purchasing the ibm pc i won a drawing for a ti professional. the machine came with lotus 1-2-3. this became a hobby machine and i found several improvements at the various pc swap meets. i bought a hard disk upgrade and a sound card for peanuts. also, several software programs (used) over the years. also, there was a 286 card upgrade with 1meg memory that converted the ti pro to a 286 which could run pc software. ti had an outstanding impact printer with great fonts that we purchased before our first laser printer. in the pre- laser printer days, we also used an electric typewriter with a serial connection for quality letters. the shareware word processing program, pc write, had been converted to run on the ti pro so that was used for both the ibm and the ti. it was a snap to have various printer code templates stored, so that the document could easily go from one printer to another.
i first started using computers in the 1970's. they were dos systems, had 5inch floppy disks, then one of the early macs, then onto mainframes and pc's. when windows 95 came, it was like being in another world! i used a wide range of applications, studied programs like cobol, fortran and basic and of course the windows stuff. when using macs for the first time i liked to write progrms in basic for jokes. for example, i created one that when booted, the attached printer, which was an old teletype machine, would start printing some kind of countdown saying this machine will self destruct in 10 seconds and then start a series of moving the platen up and down until switched off. now that i have &quot;grown up&quot; (my humour is the same) i have just switched over to macintosh again and am giving bill gates the flick. i am retaining one pc only. the difference is amazing and in my experience makes windows look silly! what next? robert carter
my first computer that my dad bought me was a tandy trs80 in the mid-80's. i thought i was the kid who had it all.(shame) i do remember the high pitched screaming noise the cassette tapes used to make while loading the games, and the frustartion in having to rewind it if didnt load first time.hello to all. i love reading the news letter(johnty-first time replyer.manchester.u.k.)
my first pc was a sanyo 770 portable, or should i say luggable and the size of a full size sewing machine. it weighed about 50-60 lbs., had the keyboard as a base for the computer and cost about $3,000. it was purchased to take between my office and home. it had a built-in (color, yes i said color, monitor). it came with 128kb of ram with two 5.25in ds/dd floppy disks. i used it for word processing and mailing lists. this is the computer that taught me that packaged software with a computer is not always a bargain. i purchased a canon dot matrix printer to use with it which really limited the portability of all this equipment. i thought i was king of the block because it was twice as fast as the office machine which was an ibm pc at 4.77mhz. i eventually put in a 32mb harddrive and a multi-function card to expand the memory to the max for dos of 640kb. the upgrades alone cost about $800. who can say that computers today are expensive? when you figure the value of the dollar from the 80's and what you get in a computer today. computers today are really cheap in comparison!!! memories what memories. tom
the first computer i ever used was a tandy model i. the first computer i owned was a texas instruments ti-99/4a. that computer was amazing! i remember being a teenager and staying up until the sun came up working on my own programs. the sprite graphics system on that machine was way ahead of its time.
when i worked for a metro newspaper in 1967--we had a giant box that housed a friden 'computer' that received the nyse-stock exchange over phone lines for fast publication. in those days--6/8 line optical perforated tape ran a number of devices. publishing was one of the first computer-oriented businesses. my first(1984) home pc was &quot;the first laptop&quot;--the quirky apple iic. i did use it for early &quot;online&quot; chat rooms using aol or compuserve that cost $6/hour!! i had some serious credit card bills ($6/700-month.) i still have it in storage/limbo. for the appleiic=imagewriter printer=1200 baud modem cost was $2500. in 1984 dollars!!
seems a lot of you folks had the old commodore but my first comp was an atari 800 xl. a fine piece of equipment with a monochrome 9 inch or so monitor, a cartridge port and an external 5.25 floppy. after that came the atari 520 st with a whopping 520 kb of memory and a 3.5&quot; drive what a speed demon. what fun to think about how far we've come. one of my favorite quotes was something like &quot;if automotive technology advanced as fast as computer technology we'd all be driving a rolls royce that cost $2.99 and got 500 miles to the gallon&quot;
ohhhhhhhhhhh forgot them ... tape drives... still have an amiga 500 with dual drives somewhere in the garage lol. i come across the alignment tape for one of those tape drives and wondered what to do with it now ... then again maybe i finally threw it ... it was my job to ajust the drives ... lol i worked in a computer shop then... too many years ago.lol
i needed it for telecommuting in 1991. my first computer was bought at fedco (remember fedco?) anyway it cost about $2,500. it had a 15&quot; monitor, 5.25&quot; floppy and 3.5&quot; disc drive (the latest in storage) and two speakers attached to the monitor. it ran on dos and had a graphic user interface but that's all i remember. i still have it in the garage (but at the moment i'm not sure where the speakers went). nancy foroughi
in february 1988 my first pc arrived purchased through a frend who was a senior exec at a small company. i received that company's corporate discount price...and a small virus that came in shrink-wrapped (obviously opened and re-shrink-wrapped) software. the virus started affecting the performance of one program and then it spread throughout and affected other programs. finally, it put up an anti-capitalist message when i tried to start up my financial software. i had norton (or something like it) on this ast desktop (or was it another brand..i've had so many pcs and laptops). the anti-viral techs worked with me by phone but nothing removed this virus. i worked for a law firm at the time and i hired the firm's computer security consultant privately. sitting side-by-side, going through code, we found where the virus code was. it resisted all attempts to delete it as it seemed to protect itself. the consultant called norton (or whomever) and we all worked together to no avail. we were asked to copy this area of code and send it in to the anti-viral company's hq in silicon valley (i was in new orleans at the time). we did send it in before we wiped my hard drive. after that i had problems with the bios and some other hardware problems. i had worked on mini-frames at a firm on wall street and loved computers. but my experience at home with my first computer was a nightmare. i finally gave up on it and bought another pc, different brand.
i used ibm and wang systems at work (county of orange california) in 1986. the systems both had their own stand alone servers (if they went down there was no backup). we got our first pc's at work in 1995. i think they were gateways. learned how to use the internet at that time. now in a new dept we are using dell's. nancy
i remember using the commodore 64 back in the early 80's...flaunted as the computer for everyone, but who would ever use or need more than 64k of memory?!? ...but then again, there was the trs-80 (trash-80) from radio shack back in the late 70's, that had everyone brain-scratching on learning basic... mid 80's, i got my hands on this behomoth known as the xerox 860 ips which was called an information processing system (read: word processor for the elite), with dual 8&quot; drives and ethernet cabling which rivaled telephone cables in density. with a little know-how, this word processor was a 2-ton micro-computer! (almost a main-frame, but hey! who needs to consolidate information? that is what the pool of secretaries were for, right? /duck (btw - that little beastie was built solid like a tank and didn't even sustain any damage when a klh speaker fell on it from 10' above the floor, during the loma prieta earthquake, oct 17, '89...then again, neither did the klh speaker!...talk about quality. those were the days....) late 80's, i got my mac classic while i was learning dtp, word processing, micro-computers and hypertalk. have to respect oop (object oriented programming) in terms of time and keying savers. easy really is hard! early to mid 90's, i had (still have) my quadra 660 av, powerpc 880 av and powerbook 100 - they all still work, and are still excellent for dtp (but it is sad/cool when i have thumb drives with 100x the size of my hdd's in these rigs!), but when apple abandoned those of us who invested in the new technology, those of us who were techno savy/hungry, went looking for bigger and better things... jump forward to mid 90's through current and i was/am using technology from the 70's as a (former) 39b - electronic quality assurance test equipment (equate) and later (currently) as a 94k - electronic equipment test facility (eetf) operator/maintainer/instructor with mini, micro, and main-frame technologies. in 2001, i got converted from a mac-head, to a pc-freak and got addicted to the mmorpg-scene where cutting-edge components are the key to survival. i have stuck with amd since then, with 6 custom-built rigs from socket-a's to my current dedicated 939 gaming rig: tt armor va8000swa silver aluminum atx full tower, a8n-sli deluxe mobo, amd athlon 64 x2 4400+(89w) toledo 2.2ghz, pc power & cooling 750w ps, wd raptor 150gb x2 (raid-0), bfg 8800gts 640mb x2 sli, g.skill 2gb (2 x 1gb) sdram ddr 400, creative 7.1 channels sound blaster x-fi xtremegamer fatal1ty pro, xp pro sp2, logitech g15 kb, and razer copperhead mouse. so all in all, i guess i got in just after fortran, kobol, and the rooms full of punch-cards were reduced to little used antiquities.
my first was a kaypro 64 with cp/m operating system. it was a luggable. not nearly as light as my macpowerbook today. i got in lot of fights with my kaypro when i wanted to carry it onboard small planes and refused for it to be placed in cargo hold. we travelled around the world together. europe with weight limits was another testing situation. it finally got passed on to my youngest daughter when she went off to university.i had switched to a 'fat mac'. in the 70's i was jealous as hell of my daughter kandis who had a trs 80. way before my kaypro. i thought her trash 80 with tape drive the most wonderful thing ever. bad form for a mom to be jealous of her kid but i was. then kandi graduated from usc went to work for microsoft and i really got jealous. but over the years i ended up feeling sorry for her. being a girl and black she watched layer after layer of young white men being slotted over her. sure she got lots of money and they ended up giving her assistants and lots of responsibility but not the promotions or the job titles. she left ms in a lot of pain and ended up eating a 9mm. she was a beautiful, brilliant, person. rip kandis
i dodn't remember the name brand of my first computer, but it had 4 megs of ram and a 261 meg hard drive and a 14,440 modem and was top of the line. i thought i was in heaven after learning on my wife's apple 2e that she brought home from her teaching job every summer. oh the memories when we were young! well i was 40 at the time.
well, as my earlier post indicated my 1st pc was in 1988 so i'm a relative latecomer compared to others on this forum. (my life partner did have a kaypro years before and my first love in college programmed in fortran at a student job on campus so i claim a certain vintage heritage vicariously. as for vintage audio equipment and changing media affecting museums' and archive's ability to preserve valuable recordings: it is an issue that has been barely addressed in the mainstream media but is a serious issue. i'm doing my small part by hanging on to my old columbia gramophone from the 1930's which i purchased in 1973 in the flea market in athens, greece (had it shipped around the horn), reel-to-reel, sony and radio shack cassette decks and a walkman, portable and audiophile adcom cd player, my beloved sony 1970's vintage turntable with strobe for manually adjusting the speed), my 1950's vintage kiddie 45rpm player and my 1960's kid 45rpm and 33 1/3 rpm players, a dictation cassette deck, probably some microphones somewhere for the cassete decks, and a collection of recordings - vintage 45s, 33 1/3s (mono and stereo), and a cylinder for an edison cylinder player (although i don't have one of those...yet). rapid planned obsolecence of computers and computer media seems to be an even worse problem than what has happened in audio.
my first computer was a kaypro pc with two floppy drives. this was an &quot;ibm-compatible&quot; rather than a clone because of its proprietary backplane architecture. i later added a seagate 30 mb hard drive and a modem. one of the floppies failed; it cost $150 to replace it! eventually i also had to replace the crappy btc keyboard with an ibm xt model. my wife took over the computer when i got a 486 in 1993. she continued to use it until mid-1999, when she finally got the idea that it would have a problem with the year 2000 issue.
i started on a zx81 with _one_ kb of ram, and _no_ storage. anyone else programmed in 1kb? not the easiest thing in the world...
i had a commodore vic 20 with expanded ram - 8kb and used it for essays and word processing in school. my printer, top of the line wouldn't print superscripts and best font at the same time! i moved on to a sinclair - i think they called it an z80 with an amazing 128 k of ram. finally, around 1982 or 83, i leaped forward to an xt clone.
with this first computer (a tandy--made by...radio shack???) we were all thrilled when after typing in several lines of gobbledy **** code it printed a few words! thrill! js
i waited almost a year to decide between the apple ii and the atari 800. finally, it was the atari's better graphics that won me over. i still have that machine and it still works! talk about reliability! it came with a fully loaded 48 kb of ram and i bought the atari basic cartridge. my programs were all stored on tape cassettes and, sadly, most of those are all dead now. it was a great machine for home use. it was purchased on a deep discount sale at sears for about $600 (regular price was $999), and this was 1981 dollars. translated into current money, that $600 is about $1,415 for a machine running a cpu at 1.79 mhz and with a 320x192 maximum graphics resolution. times have changed, but like i said, that old machine still works like new - though i don't dust it off much.
there aren't many of us. i remember jumpman with a lot of nostalgia. that was a great game. i also had the 410 tape drive, and i later bought the 1020 plotter and used it as a tiny printer. much later i bought several disk drives and a modem and ran a bbs which i kept going till about 5 years ago, but by then it had migrated to a pc running ms-dos.
it was an ibm ps/2 model 4, if i remember correctly. i bought it in 1986 or 1987 because i was taking a graduate level course in technical writing and editing at n.c. state university and, since i was working full time, i didn't want to have to rely on a computer being available in their lab for doing the coursework. it was fairly expensive, about $4,500. i had to buy an apple laserjet printer because no other laser printer was available at the time. the printer cost about $4,000 and weighed a ton. the salesperson had to write a macro for me to run each time i needed to turn the printer on so the apple printer could talk to the ibm pc (they should put that in their commercial). i have neither the computer nor the printer now.
i was hired as a cobol mainframe programmer in 1978 and worked on an ibm 370 that was housed in a large data center in london. it was accessed through &quot;dumb&quot; terminals located in the bank i worked for in the wall street area, nyc. my first pc was a compaq portable purchased in the 80s. it had two floppy disk drives that subsequently burned out. it was heavy to carry and was known as the &quot;sewing machine&quot;. snocohn
in 1967 10 people in tarrant county (ft. worth, arlington and other suburbs), texas were offered a seat in a class on programming the new ncr century 100 series computer. a test was given to anyone who showed up and lived in tarrant county and the top ten scores were offered the seats. i was lucky enough to earn one of those seats. we saw one computer. it was at a steel company and filled the perimeter of a large room and we could walk around the room and follow the computer's computing progress (meaning it was pretty slow). in those days everything was done using desk debugging and a programmer had a time slot on one day each week. if their program was not ready to go, they had to wait until the next week. shortly after that, don't remember the exact date, texas instruments came out with the ti 99-4a which i immediately purchased. it had 4k memory and used a cassette tape for storage. of course, it was programmed in basic. i wrote a program to calculate auto insurance rates in texas, which was huge at the time, and would run out of memory frequently and would have to go back and rewrite some of the lines of code to gain more memory so i could finish the program. i would go into the study to work on the program for a couple of hours and suddenly realize i had been there 5 or 6 hours. in the end, the program served its purpose very well and was used for quite some time. i loved that machine and have not gotten as much thrill working on any computer since as i did that one. jd
my first computer was an atari st and i believe that was in 1986.
my first pc was a used pentium computer i bought through short course i took in 2001. needless to say i have gain both in knowledge and computers in my home since then. i currently own two desktop systems and there are numerous laptops in my home. i have also gained in knowledge through the courses i have taken on cnet, i just want to say thanks for providing them.
i started reading about and studying about computers before i ever got to use one. i took a test when i got out of high school and they said that i could be a programmer, nurse, or teacher. i liked the idea of programming. when i was in my forties, i joined a programming class at fort brag. it was a basic computer class and i used one of their computers. it was an ibm (i think.) anyway the next chance i go to get my hands on a computer was when i took another computer class (again in programming) at la verne college in california. it was an apple iie. finally i got my hands on a computer to use at work and learned about the programs. the company sent me to class to learn access and they had mini classes in other microsoft programs at work for all of us to learn to run the machines. i was put in charge of a program that monitored all the machines in the production floor. it was written in qnx (a cousin to linux) and now it is run on unix. i am still working with it and trained myself to run the program. again i bought all kinds of books on unix and computers. a co-worker teased me about spending my money on books when i could get a machine and start using it instead of reading about it. i said, yes, but if something went wrong with it i wouldn't know how to fix it. i eventually joined the nri school to learn programming again. they sent me a machine, a 286 generic with 16 megs of memory. i went through the first part of the training and got anxious to complete it. (i never completed the course even though i paid the full $3,000.) i installed a cd rom and sound blaster card in that machine. i went on to build my own. i still have the one from the school even though i don't run it anymore. the one i built is an amd 586. i bought the machine at a second hand store, brought it home and rebuilt it from the motherboard up. since then i have bought several from the second hand store and got them up and running. i got my son interested to doing this and gave him several of the machines to see what he could do with them. he never completed school, but he can get a machine up and running. right now i am a 66 year old still learning how to make the machine do what i want it to. i still run the unix system at work along with doing database management and spreadsheet reports. i have a lot of memories about the experiences i have had with all the machines i have, and i plan to have more in the future.
you will not believe my experience because i am a dinosaur!i first knew about &quot;the beast&quot; in 1967 when i was part of a sales team using e.d.p (electronic data processing) department coding every sale item,customer account number,delivery instructions,and cost pricing,together with technical data. ironically i was made redundant due the upgrading and direct input.it never rained, but it poured, as i was offered a job with the international reference exchange on data entry inputting.that ceased when microsoft me 2000 came in.however i bought microsoft's &quot;x p&quot; soon afterwards, and an email allowed me to continue gathering information for business use.
my first computer was a sony vaio v505. xp home. that has been my system through most of college. now a college graduate i still use that computer for everyday use although i am thinking of switching oss into linux. interestingly enough, i knew nothing about computers when i first bought my computer and now close to 4 years later i'm an it person. who would have known? certainly not i.
in about 1975, i started hunting and pecking on the terminals of a newspaper typesetting system. that's how i wrote my letters to santa claus. my father lamented that learning that way, my fingers would never be strong enough to operate a real typewriter. of course it turned out that i never needed to use a manual typewriter, and my fingers were plenty strong for electrics. i made my last regular use of typewriters in the late 80s and in 1988 bought my first computer, a mac. my college friends either used lab computers or had dedicated word processors and i was feeling way tech savvy when flipping disks between the floppy with the system and the floppy with the applications and data - no hard drive! getting an external floppy drive a year later to end disk swapping put me over the moon.
i purchased a atari computer which had the mother board in the keyboard. it booted with one 3 1/2&quot; floppy and ran all it's programs from floppys. i bought a hard drive after a few months of having to swap floppys until my fingers fell off. get this ! a 30 mb hard drive set me back $300 and it was about 15&quot; square and 3&quot; high in size. don't we miss the good old days !!!
i started using pc's in 1998. it was a desktop gateway 433mhz celeron with ati rage 128 graphics and a dvd drive and a seperate iomega zip 650 cd burner and a zip 100 drive. it was a great workhorse for multimedia and music management. windows 98(non second edition) never crashed on me. not ever! win 98 is the most reliable os micrsoft has made upto now.
in 1986 i was introduced to the computer. the first day, i didn't known how to find the start button. was in my second year in the university. i take computer class and also used to my paper work. rainbow, ibm and apple. right know i can't imagine to work with out a computer at hand.
i started in 1969 with ibm360, ibm370, ibm1401 etc, but the oldest system i saw was a remington with 90 round columns cards, programed in a tabloid with wires.-
my first computer was an osi (ohio scientific inc) c2p that i got in the mid 1970s. it was a 6502 processor with 4 k of memory. my 2nd computer was an ibm pc, 64 kb motherboard running dos 1.1. both machines were still working when i took them to the recycle center a couple of years ago.
maybe 256kb memory in 1969?? my first ibm pc didn't even have a hard disc and the next one, an ibm pc xt had a whopping 10mb/mb? hard drive but still a pittance of ram in the very low kb range which was awesome for then. i did have an ibm at and put an expanded memory card which got to 512 kb. oh well, most of the phone and cable vendors will argue that their service is 6 mb/s downstream when it's really 6 mb/s. let's don't get sticky, it's only 8x's different! who cares, it's only performance! let me know if i am wrong...i gotsta know!
i have first use pc in 1994 that was intel 286 processor with 64mb ram and 1gb hdd
lee, this has been one helluva trip down memory lane. this is the first time responding to one of your polls, but oh how sweet to hear about these babies. i have played with almost all of the computers mentioned: the vic 20's, atari's, ibm pcjr, packerd bell's, trs 80's; and yes i had to buy a seperate tape recorder for the programs-still have it today; the huge 5.25&quot; floppies, the green and amber screens, an old harris-something used by the airlines - gosh, now i really know my age. i remember using the internet before the &quot;internet&quot; was a word. at my post in central america, we would send the message then go to the john. when we returned, the reply was scrolling slowly across the screen. then ages later, came prodigy, a big step up from compuserve, but then you would open the page, go to the john, and return to see the page almost finished loading. but, anyone out there had a radio shack pocket computer. this one was a little special (circa 1982). it looked like a pre-pda. it really was a full computer and you programed it using basic. it had only a 1-line lcd, but that sucker would work and we used it to do the weight & balance charts for the small commuter aircraft. i was so proud when i wrote programs that were very practical. and of course, i traveled with it everwhere. it was about 6&quot; long and 3&quot; wide. been looking through my attic but only found an ibm 80286 with the original discs. it's really amazing how quickly the technology has changed. those old vic 20 games seem like just yesterday... dream on... my toshiba vista notebook is calling me with a &quot;bing&quot; and makes the dell 8600 with xp seem ancient next to it ...if only they knew their origins. once again, a really sweet trip down memory lane. thanks again, lee
that was my first computer, too. got it in jr. high, and learned to program in basic. saved my lawn mowing and birthday money to upgrade to 64k, and buy a pascal compiler! had its own strange set of games -- does anyone else remember &quot;dungeons of daggoreth?&quot; awesome game
zenith 286 running zdos in 1986. i was a contractor and the military unit we were supporting bought 1500 of them and asked if we could support them. we said sure (none of us had seen one before) and we proceeded to ojt. you could do anything with a batch file back then. i then purchased a pc with 512k ram, two 5 1/4 360k floppies,and a monster 10 mb hard drive, and a vga monitor. we would never in a lifetime fill a 10 mb hard drive! purchase price was $1800. so we have come a long, long, way....
first computer was a sinclair - you plugged it into a portable pc and ran it off a tape deck. you turned it on and off by unplugging it! second computer was ibm 360 mainframe, then the pc came out but instead of ibm i bought the compaq luggable. two floppy discs. a mouse! that was new. and a 5mb hard drive that i installed into a slot in the compaq as a beta tester - do not remember the brand right now but they were one of the very first. later upgraded that to a whole 20mg!! got one of the first true laptops at a computer faire _ remember those? got my first color screen at a faire too, 14&quot; rgb. wow! was that hot or not! went through various compaqs, gateways (had to rebuild one from scratch as the mother board kept failing and they kept sending me parts), finally am now fairly satisfied with two dell desktops and a laptop. been a trip and a half though and have built a number of units for my sister. we've certainly come a long ways since then! reba
mine was a epson qx-10, cpm based, but it had a graphical interface, with buttons that said store, print, retrieve , etc. at home i had an atari 800.
in reply to: poll: when did you first start using a personal computer? by lee koo (admin) moderator my first computer was an apple clone in 1983: franklyn computer, with 64kbytes memory power, no harddisk yet. i was able to write some business applications and made some money. i do remember playing with a comadore 32 kbytes memory power. ibm pcs showed up a little later, with 640 kbytes memory power, and one very small harddisk, which cost around $700 i remember using cpm as operating system, far much better and powerful than the clumsy ms dos that ibm brought with its pcs. i was living in panama city, panama at that time harmarma
i bought my first computer in 1982. it was a nec (yes, they made computers then). the operating system was cpm-- which was the industry standard until dos came along and blew it out of the water. it had 16 kb, used a 5.25 inch single-sided, single-density floppy drive, and you had to put the &quot;system disk&quot; (i.e. the disk with the cpm operating system) into the floppy drive, and load the operating system each time you started up. this is the origin of the error message &quot;non-system disk&quot; when you start up with a floppy disk in the floppy drive. it covered my entire desk and cost $3000. i wrote a billing program for it using dbase ii. i did think that program was &quot;debased.&quot; i also had the first personal organizer, made by casio, which had 8kb. people would stop me in the halls at work to see what it was. i remember driving in a snowstorm to a store that had just received an add-on with 8 additional kb's. (new yorkers: remember 47th st. photo?) they had seven in stock when i called, and only 2 left when i got there. i've had a number of other interesting computers, included three i bought from japan laptop direct. did anyone else ever buy from japan laptop direct?
1980's atari 800, 1990's wang, handhelds 2000 whatever i could get my hands on
i was part of the management team for the equestrian portion of the 1984 summer olympics, held at the santa anita race track. i was assigned the task of producing a scenario for the dressage competition so all the volunteers knew (to the minute)when each horse was to leave the barn, enter the warm-up areas, moved to the holding area, get their equipment checked and enter the competition arena. i was led to the track offices, sat in front of an ibm computer and asked if there were any questions. &quot;uh,um&quot; i replied brilliantly, looking at the large, dark, intimidating screen. &quot;how do i turn it on?&quot; it only took a few quick instructions and i was typing away. my first computer experience. i was hooked!! i could backtrack, correct, add things in, move whole paragraphs, proofread and then print it out. wow!! by the end of the competition i could turn it on, type, save, copy, save, paste, save, print, save to a floppy and turn it off. i was computer literate!! the week after the olympics i was the proud owner of an ibm 8088, the one with the double disk drive. in another week i had a 10 meg hard drive installed. wow! look at all that room. a few months later i upgraded to the new 286 with a 40 meg drive. it was so big i knew i would never fill it up. plus, it was so fast it had to have stepdowns, from 12 mghz to 10 and 8, so the older programs could run. then came the 486 with the 120 meg drive and a new laser printer as big as a house with a price tag of almost $3,000 but it printed at 300 dpi!!! then... well, you know how it went from there.
long live the commodore 64k , basic and whatever that crazy old ibm model was with the big ole off white mouse kinda thingy with the blue button... lol i even forget what stuff was called. the original macintosh was all the rage but to me the thing looked like a 1000 dollar toaster oven with a stupid little smiley face on it. and let's face it.. did i use my first pc to program stuff to save the world from endless repetitive tasks or to professionally format that book report on catcher and the rye i submitted to mr. edwards in 6th grade? absolutely not. what i wanted to do was kill as many aliens as possible and figure out just the perfect way to sneak that little body blow into piston hurricane as he came sneaking back up after the &quot;come on come on&quot; call out.... not much has change... by the way.. the new macbook pro is awesome. sorry i keep gushing but this thing is the best thing since american cheese came sliced thin &lt;g&gt;.
my first contact with a computer was an old compaq lte5300 series laptop. it was thicker than harry potter and the order of phoenix, the screen was 12&quot; and ran on 16-bit color, it had a 113mhz intel processor, an external cd-rom drive (upgrade) and a very miniscule hard drive that i can't even remember. it ran windows 95 because windows 98 didn't come out yet then.
friends and myself had a number of early personal computers- atari 800/800xl, vic-20, c-64, timex/sinclair 1000, commodore 16/+4, not to mention the early video game consoles- atari 2600/5200, magnavox odyssey2, colecovision, intellivision, and the best system at the time- the original nintendo nes. most of these golden age home computers have emulators available that run pretty well on a pc, you just need to do some searching to find them. ie: for c-64 try the vice emulator-  and there's good emulators for atari and other computers as well.
amiga 1000. a thousand curses on commodore for botching their business and sinking their machines. i would love to see what the design team would have done to stay ahead of everyone else if they were still together. followed by an a2000 and then a3000. my wife went to the dark side and i got an ibm aptiva as the next upgrade. i have been homebrew builder since then. nothing fancy, i just haven't seen the advantage of dell, gateway, or hp for desktops without incredible incentives that don't show up.
still think that the ti 99/4a never reached it's full potential. the tms 9900 chipset was top flight military chip. had full system with peripheral expansion box and hard drives. ti marketing never appreciated the product and gave feeble support. ti extended basic gave very high accuracy decimal calculations, like a scientific calculator.
please at my young age i only started using a pc in the early 2000's, but back then at school i didn't care for computers . i got my first pc in november 2005 and have been getting into them ever since. it's a custom made pc so no branding. not much of a story i suppose...
boy, you just brought back some memories with that casio organizer; i traveled all over with that stuff. i went through a few of them and constantly got the newer models with more memory. neat little gadgets!!
started in '86 w/ comodore 64 - not quite a pc by our standarts but... ilearned basic programing, wrote a payroll program, i used all they way through 1992 long after my first real pc info: actually started rewriting rhe program in machine code throgh a compiler (merlin) and though never finished it, the function in code worked just as fast as c++ under win 3.1 on a 386 - thats why i'll always keep griping about these oversized slow monsters written by the current programers. dec 1989 (or was it 88) bought a 383 2x25mhz, 4 meg, 40 mg hard drive 15&quot; monitor for $ 2800 ... and thats where the empty wallet started (90) 300 for a second 40 meg rll/mfm drive (90) 1100 for a 212 meg scsi drive (91) 980 for a double speed external cd rom (91) 3000 for a laser printer w/ 600 dpi enhancment card 1600 for a 486 and motherboard which could hold 1 gig meg in memory *** too bad that would have cost 10,000 to populate *** (92) 2800 for a color ink-jet ( well it was 17&quot; wide trackt) my cellphone can almost do what all my old pc's could do together and my new pc - 1 ghz pent, with 1 gig , 4 + 80 gig drives, dvd burner , cheap ink-jet all for less than 700 a couple of years ago. - and oh yeah how much would my one gig have been in 91 --- $ 10,000 - now 50-100. makes me feel prety stupid
you should be right and the killer was it took 4 for 1 meg - bitts and therefor we ended up with 4 x 9 per megabite - 4 meg of memory took the space of a laptop - well floor space anyway - obviously not height. ah the old times and if these guys whant to talk about pre-pc's lets see at my fathers ncr operated office 64 k of actice memory was the size of a desk and hardrives like washing mashines with individuall platter units stacked on a spindel that was dropped top loaded into the darn thing - 14&quot; mad tape reels ruled the world. it all took about 1000 sq feet do do less than my hp-21 calculator (except for storrage)
i started using a personal computer when i was in my college time that was 1999 its my 3rd year in college my pc was a pentium iiimmx technology only 400mhz processor but i used to play before a 3d game which is the counterstrike game which i know it was very popular to all..my computer was still fast before because i was only using a windows 98 with 128mb memory...but when i did have updated with a windows xp my pc gets slower and i can't play my counterstrike game anymore...only games that are not 3d can be played...but i still love my first pc...cliff
the first time i started using a personal computer was in the 80s. 1- a pocket computer from casio (  ) 2- then a sinclair zx 81 (  ) 3- then came the ncr decision mate v (  ) which i traded with 4- a atari 520 stf (  ), 5- and then a atari 1040 ste. i traded the atari 1040 ste with 6- a personal computer (a pc pentium 1). take care everyone.
wow, you guys are stirring up fond memories. the first system i worked on was a ge s-200 series. the next system i worked on was the philco 900 which got replaced by an rca spectra 70... that was our dmv's first on-line system. mag cards were pretty cool. in 1967 i went to work for a service bureau as a computer operator on a burroughs b-260. it had a whopping 4.8k memory, 2 card readers, a punch and a 700 lpm drum printer. a while later i ended up working with a burroughs b-1700, b-3500 and the b-4700. burroughs had some pretty neat things in their os, but the hardware was not very reliable. oh for the days when rsi was unknown.
the first personal computer i had was an ibm pc. i worked with them at work too and we had a couple of tandy 1500's. we ended up standardizing on the ibm. i ended up with a pc xt-286 that i ran the legs off and upgraded the motherboard to one with an amd 386-40. that sucker ran all the way until i built my own box with a pentium 166 mmx a number of years later. the only reason i replaced it was because it just wasn't quite fast enough. it was bulletproof otherwise... never a bit of trouble.
as a mechanical engineer, i worked in research wing of indian railways in lucknow (india) from 1968 to 1971 and was given a weeks training by ibm in fortran-iv. then i started developing programmes for the railways, traversing on alternate days, all the way to iit kanpur ( about 50 miles away, local transport, rail and then again local transport), punched cards there, got them listed and submitted them to the computer center (main frame 4406 or some similar number. i am not sure now) spending almost whole day, and would get the result on my next visit, again to revise and re-submit for further run. left railways in 1971 to join a steel plant and had nothing to do with computers for next 30 years. now i am retired, own a pc as pastime, initiated by my niit trained daughter, have learnt *** bits of c++, made a few programmes, and run them by f4 and f9, a matter of one or two seconds, performing a task which necessitated commuting for whole day in 1968-71. (narender kumar )
it was sometime in the mid-90s, when we started to use computers in schools. at first, i hated computers with a passion. i got frustrated very easily and never wanted to use one again. a few months afterwards, my parents purchased a packard bell machine, and i began playing with it more. i still find it funny that i at first despised computers, and now cannot live without them!
i had my first computer on 1988, it was an imb xt, an old dinasour with 10mb hdd, 128kb ram, 5.25&quot; fdd and a very slow processor (intel 8088 - 4.7mhz). with a dos operating system and monochrome crt monitor (green characters). at that time i had to connect to the primitive internet (usenet) thru a dial-up us robotics modem of 9.6kbps. a lot of water has flowed under the bridge since then.
i don't know if you would call this a personal computer or not but you could program with it and, with the help of visa calc, you could do business on it. i think i enjoyed the basic programming the most but i used it practically as well. my first ibm compatible was a compaq duel floppy, 5 1/4&quot; drives. had 512k but i upgraded it to 640k, now i was really flying. had to have the operating system on one floppy and the program on the other. ahhh sweet monochrome days. i remember that if you put a notch on the other side of the floppy, you could make a dual sided floppy. seemed to only work on good quality disks. i have now have more memory on usb flash drive than a whole stack of mfm full height drives that i later had for my pc. who says size doesn't matter?
man! i can't believe i never bothered to check for replies to my post, way back. my thanks to willy, newkiki, aultwa and isaacm30 for you posts. fond memories of days gone by, with wang.
