hi all i have this issue with my pc where it is connected to the internet. i can ping ip addresses and that works in my browser. however the real issue is when i type the name of a website e.g.  that is where the browsers (pural) fail. i have tried all of them to no avail, which makes me think this could be registry or the tcp/ip settings are messed up. either way i have no idea what to do about this and help would be greatly appreciated. *just to clarify the browser will show the website when i enter the ip address, it is when i type the actual name that it doesn't work
did you test your dns? (hint, use nslookup.) sorry but i don't write how to use nslookup. just use a search engine if you don't know how. bob
we suspected that it could be dns bob, we will run the test made by microsoft from google. could it be anything else?
sorry, no. it's the first test i'd do.
tried the test....said everything is fine...however the issue still remains....this should stretch you bob....and anyone else....
such as the dns your isp has given you. it's not that i don't know the issue but given such limited details i can only share what i use for a test.
1. third party software managing your connection 2. anything to do with wireless security if you're not wired 3. your firewall 4. your router's firewall settings 5. your isp 6. using vpn do you have access to another pc you can try so you can rule that out?
the dns is the one that the isp has given us....never said that you don't know the issue...fact is your very very good...solved many issues for me...
windows is managing my connection, with me testing on so many browsers i made sure that the firewall didn't get in the way....remember that when i type the ip address in the address bar it works....so why not work when words are used?.....my router firewall isn't the issue i think because the computer gets through to the internet....we don't use vpn....unfortunatly i only have a desktop.... thanks for the suggestions...
it's possible the cause could be in that or you have a proxy set, a dns resolver or such as a browser addon but the issue is classic dns. the name to numeric translation is broken. just need to think of where these break and often we find it with highjackthis or nslookup or your common settings. bob
i will try run the program and see if that works....i will also try booting up ie with no add-ons......i may not reply until tomorrow as it is fairly late in the uk and i have work tomorrow, so please check back on the forum thank you for your help and suggestions bob, it is very much apprecited.
your system can't resolve the names you type in. somehow, its not connecting to the dns server to resolve. here's the place to start to diagnose the problem...  here what i would do: 1. if you have another computer, connect to the same router and get on the internet. if that works, that means the dns server on your isp side is not the problem. the config on the computer experiencing the dns error is the problem. 1a. find out the ip of the dns server by going into your router's utility page (usually 192.168.0.1), go to the status, device info and wan (or something similar to this). you should see dns and a couple of ipaddresses. take one of these no. and go to the cmd window and ping it. if you can't ping it, then something in your computer is preventing it. 1b. go to your cmd window. type ipconfig /all. if these setting were automatic, you should see an ipaddress for the router like 192.168.0.1. so when you type a name and your computer doesn't know the ipaddress, the request goes to the router and the router sends it to the dns server and it comes back to your computer with the right ipaddress. if the settings on these are wrong, then your going to have a problem. 1c. if your computer thinks it knows the ipaddress to a name such as google, but it's corrupt, then the problem is probably with the hostfile or dns cache. 2. if it shows the same error as the other computer, that may mean that there's a dns server problem. either your not connecting to it or possible the dns server is down. i would call your isp to see if they are having dns server issues.
hmmm philbernie, i thank you for the tips and as soon as i get back from work tonight i will give what you said a go and then inform you if it worked or not.
