hi all, running winxp pro. computer has been running fine. then installed sp3. after that, at every startup i got 2 error messages. the first error message said: airgcfg.exe - entry point not found. the procedure entry point apsgetinterfacecount could not be located in the dynamic link library wlanapi.dll when i clicked 'ok' on that message, a second error message came up that said: wzcsldr2.exe - entry point not found. the procedure entry point apsinitialize could not be located in the dynamic link library wlanapi.dll i have since learned that the 2 error messages could have been removed by simply updating the dlink wireless driver. before i discovered that fix, i did the following. i put the pc in safe mode, and i checked c:\windows\system32\wlanapi.dll to see if the sp3 install had added a second wlanapi.dll file. i thought that might be causing the problem based on some suggestions i found in a google search. then i deleted another file that's almost identical. it was the file: wlanapi.dll. the w and a are capitalized and the file size was larger than the wlanapi.dll file that i didn't touch. within a second or two after deleting the wlanapi.dll file, the monitor froze. i hit the soft reboot and now when the computer comes on, the monitor stays completely blank, nothing on it, no post, nothing. i turn the pc off and on and there are no beeps, all pc led's come on, the fans are on, the dvd led's light up for a moment, but monitor is blank. any ideas on what i can do to get the pc up and running again would be greatly appreciated.
if you can start in safe mode try to restore to an earlier date. pick last known good configuration.
i'm not aware of any file on a hd that will block the machine from post. if the machine &quot;did&quot; beep after post and now does not....make it smaller. work with the bios....get the machine to beep. you don't need for a beep. hd's floppies optical other unplug that stuff.....get the machine to beep.
thanks for your input, i followed the steps in the &quot;no post&quot; guide, and now my pc is working good.
