hi there, ever so often my computer would not boot. when i press the on button the fans would start, the motherboard lights would go on and thats it- no beep, no spinning hdd. and the light on my webcam woulb be constantly on. when i press the power button for a few seconds the computer switches off but the webcam still shows the light. however, when i unplug and plugin the power cable again-everything would boot up o.k. without any alert messages. how can i solve this problem? the computer is home build.
the next link will have pictures and tells about this issue.
first, the webcam scenerco isn't halepful. if this is a usb type cam, its always powered by the system even when off, maybe you noticed that whn initial power is just turned off. anyways, usb devices with some telltale power led remain lit even when powered-off. second, i find a decent psu is the best cure for alot of weird or touchy issues. in no way does it fix everything but you got a stable powered system to proceed foward on. all too often, the psu has been over-stressed from system needs or itself was too underpowered in wattage. cheap psu's aren't capable for the long haul and/or are misleading in thier wattage decal. its better to have a 600w cheap psu than a 500w one at least it may deliever longer even in less demanding systems before it fails. namebrand psu's are better to maintain power levels even if lower than cheap one at least they try to deliver stable power up to they fail, not be so wishy-washy. that's why they cost more but are worth it. i don't know you're power needs but at least get a 400w+ unit from the likes that:  suggests. as for true power needs, try:  and take it from there. last, when you unplug/plug the ac cord, that's not really good. the shock of that can be its own failure later, try the power on/off switch, just press it in longer. i wouldn't discount what robert mentions in his post, if you have a 'bad caps' situation, the mtrbd. has to be replaced for best cure. replacing caps can work, too often unexperienced solder work will do damage. tada -----willy
thank you both for your replies. funny enough i never noticed that my webcam led is on even with the computer off. over the last 10 years i have upgraded, build, semi-destroyed quite a few computers. most problems were selfinflicted jumpers, leads or similar. my most recent kockup was to forget the atx power cable and spent days to find the cause of a &quot;dead&quot; mb. therefore i think there is something more or less obvious or simple-again. those things are often difficult to spot because its so unbelievable obvious. the article with the caps is interesting but is seems i never had a problem with that. this problem happened with the same setup but two different mb's and psu's. i have currently a asus a8n-sli premium (heatpipe no cooling fan), athlon 64 3400 with a large copper zalman cooler, 2 gb ram, nvidia graphics card (passively cooled) and wintek tv card. the psu is a 580w hiper-very solid build. the computer and many peripherals are attached to extension lead with surge protection. it is that what is switched off to save electicity from all those stand-by power consumers.
