ok, so i am trying to figure out whether to set my internet connection through my linksys router as &quot;keep alive&quot; or &quot;connect on demand&quot;. i had it on connect on demand but during an online game it kept thinking the connection was idle, so it would disconnect messing up the game. so i set it up on keep alive, well it would keep the connection, but everytime it wasnt used for a few hours it would disconnect and i have to go into router settings and reconnect manually. what should i do?
what model router? try downloading the latest firmware. it sounds like your router software sucks. dial on demand is pretty self explanatory. any packet destined for the internet constitutes &quot;demand&quot;. there should also be some &quot;idle timer&quot; settings that are used to disconnect the router after some time of no traffic. setting these to 0 usually means never hang-up. some isps automatically disconnect you after many hours to prevent you from setting up a mail or ftp server. you might try rebooting the router before a really long gaming session to get a fresh login and restart the isps timer, if you think it is your isp screwing with you. check you ip address on the router once a day and see if it is changing. skrall
thats the model number. it is currently running firmware version 1.00.6. when going to the linksys site they have 5-6 different &quot;versions&quot; of my router. how do i know which version i have? i tried putting a 0 in under the idle time, but must be greater than 1. i am thinking the losing of the connection must be someting to with the internet because the wireless signal usually remains at a constant 54 mbps without dropping.
look on the bottom of your router to get the version #
ok, so i got the version number and downloaded the latest firmware. so we shall see what happens. thanks for your help, guys.
so i downloaded the latest firmware and put the setting on keep alive. it is still dropping the connection, sometimes. i even set my laptop up using an ethernet cable, to see if it was wireless signal interference. so that can't be the case.
