as i am every time i look to buy a new pc, i am in a quandary -- and hope a few cnet'ers might chime in?. for whatever reason, i am a dell fan. over the years i've purchased six of them. my mom's current pc (a dell which is one of the six i've purchased) seems to have some serious issues. it runs as slow as molasses in february! mom lives in another state and, instead of trying to figure out what's wrong with her pc (several years old, win xp), we both agree she should simply get a new one. being a life-long fan (and perhaps having tunnel vision), i want to get her another dell. i've been looking at the inspiron i580. as mom does little more on her pc than send emails and browse the internet, i think it fits her needs. but, i wonder, should i consider another brand? hp perhaps? i know dell gets a lot of negative marks for their so-called &quot;customer service.&quot; heck, just last week i telephoned dell's sales department with a few questions -- and reached india. i immediately hung up! but is that reason enough to not consider getting another dell? i am, and have been, a computer addict for well over a decade. and, still, i spend countless hours trying to figure out how to do/find things on my relatively new win7 pc. mom is now in her 80's. i fear mom will have a harder time transitioning to win7 from winxp than she did (at a bit younger age) from win98 to winxp. i'm just brainstorming and hoping for some thoughts. thanks.
if you follow the forums here all vendors sooner or later get negative press. the more popular the vendor, meaning they sold zillions the more likely bad press as well. that is no excuse though for off-loading service to off shore customer support, ie: india. that only makes it worse and you already seem to know that. dell, though will support better if you're an enterprise or business buyer(maybe?) it all depends on amounts, etc.. but, regardless the pcs themselves usually are decent. if you have some savvy, and use of online support usually can resolve a host of issues using the dell support website. of course, if you have to use any telco type support, good luck considering all that, you can buy dell again or some other vendor. overall, i see dell has gotten to think it saves $ when support is offshore, too bad. as for mom, only you can gauge whatever action from buying new. win7 is more friendly to swapping over files/pgms. etc., and that is discussed widely here. tada ------willy
why not try a mac for mom? if all she's doing is e-mail, web surf, etc, why not a macbook, macbook air, or macbook pro? there is also the new 21.5&quot; imac that came out the other day. they certainly have much more ease of use and are great looking and long lasting. in my experience i've given hp and dell 1 or 2 star rating, mainly because they quit too soon. i switched to mac and have never regretted it. you say mom may have a hard time transitioning from win xp to 7? i did, and i'm a computer wizz, win 7 just didn't click for me. switching to mac os would be just as easy if not easier for her i think. just show her how to open the browser, hit the web, and it's all the same from there. the way it's laid out is very easy to understand.
anyone but dell! several years ago i tried to buy a laptop on dell's website. i spent a couple of hours on their site reviewing their various models and options, then put together an order with everything i wanted in the laptop. price was about $2,500. completed the order and paid with my debit card. a few days went by, but i never received any kind of confirmation email or other communication from dell. checked my bank account and there was no transaction from dell. logged back into their website and found that my order was on hold, so i called them. the first guy i talked to said that they couldn't accept my debit card. when i asked why, he said he didn't know, and asked if i could use another card. so, then i'm wondering if there's something wrong with my card, so i asked if i could speak to his supervisor. he gave me a name and a number in their finance office. it's not like i'm some kind of financial deadbeat. at the time, i was 50+ years old, had a six figure annual income, owned my home, and had been with my employer 20+ years. when i called this other guy, he was a real sob. when i asked if there was a problem with my card, he said that he couldn't tell me that, and asked if i had another card i could use. when i asked why they wouldn't accept my card, he said he didn't have to answer that question, and asked me again if i had another card i could use. when i said that i really needed to understand why they would not accept my debit card for payment, he said that they were under no obligation to accept my debit card and that unless i gave him another card to complete the purchase, he was going to cancel my order. so, i told him okay and that i didn't think that i could do business with dell. have recommended against doing business with dell ever since.
over the past ten years, i have had four different computers. the first was a cyrix which was worthless, and i returned it after about ten months for a full refund. i don't remember the brand of the second computer except that it was &quot;not&quot; a dell. it worked semi average at best for about two years before i needed to replace it. my third was a home grown or generic machine. i paid a friend $400 to build it for me. that included all parts he ordered from various places on the web, and for his time as well. that computer worked well for several years; better than anything else i had, including my fourth and current machine which is the same as the one you are considering for your mom; a dell inspiron 580. i have had it for about three years now, and it has worked as well for me as the generic one, but not any better. in my experience, if you know someone who has tech ability to build one from scratch, this would be my best advice. of course it still depends on what you would pay him versus a new dell inspiron, because prices are probably now considerably lower than when i bought mine. i hope this helps you in some way. tim a.
hi, you've had six machines from dell, you obviously like them (customer help desk apart - is that an oxymoron?!) so i would guess you've had few, if any serious problems with them. so why not stick with the team you know? personally, though i've ordered quite a lot of these machines for business clients, i really don't like them. the machines seem to be as reliable anyone else's and they have turned out some nice kit. but i have two reservations, the number of proprietary parts the use, and the significant difference (usually) between &quot;headline price&quot; (low) and &quot;configured price&quot; (high). i like lenovo laptops, hp desktops and hp and ibm x servers but that's just a personal preference like your dells. you may be right about the transition from xp to win7, though once you've learned how to launch your applications and find your files, there isn't too much difference. but you might want to investigate classic shell  that will replace the start menu with something resembling xp's and windows explorer, given a bit of fiddling around. but you do lose the new features of windows 7, such as libraries, so it may be better to learn the new win7 interface.
