hello everybody! i'm curently having 2 issues to be solved: 1) sometimes my laptop (acer aspire 5738g running w7 ultimate sp1 x86 as os) suddenly frezees (mouse, keyboard etc.... no longer work), although all drivers in my machine seem to be perfectly updated. 2) another issue is that my system does not often recognize both my usb flash drives and my external hd, forcing me to reboot it whenever this glitch occurs, despite usb port drivers appearing once again to be updated. the problem is that whenever i try to copy or move a file on my flash drive or external drive or just perform a virus scan on them my system 9 times out of 10 freezes and does not recognize any other portable devices i plug in unless i reboot windows. both my motherboard and hdd should be ok because if i do the same things in safe mode all the problems mentioned above vanished, meaning my machine never freezees. please note that i bought my laptop from a guy who had changed both hd (from 250 gb to 500 gb) and os (from vista to w7 professional), then i installed w7 ultimate edition. so could the above issues be somehow related to this? maybe my laptop has now a bios with an old firmware and this could be the cause of both issues: what do you make of it? did anyone have the same experience? so a possible solution could actually be to update my bios (so called bios flashing), but i understand that it's a very tricky operation. however i've just found these free tools for that:   but maybe i'd better use this free cd bootable edition: is that right, dudes?  ever tried one of these free tools ?? if you are aware of a good tutorial about flashing the bios, please just le me know...ok? here are the tech details about my bios and motherboard: - bios brand phoenix technologies ltd version v1.05 date 03/20/2009 starting address 0xe549 rom size 2mb - motherboard manufacturer acer model jv50 (u2e1) version 0100 chipset vendor intel chipset model pm45 chipset revision 07 southbridge vendor intel southbridge model 82801im (ich9-m) southbridge revision 03 can't wait to hear from you!! best regards. g.r. p.s. hey, to my great surprise i've just discovered by chance that my laptop is 64 bit capable...so i was wondering why the guy who sold it to me had install w7 pro 32 bit. as matters stand, do i better to install w7 ultimate 64 bit? if so, how can i replace the 32 bit version with the 64 bit one?
tell me about your canned air. when did you use it last? i see this is the usual core 2 duo machine at  so the age is such that it may be time to do deeper maintenance but let's start with the every few month maintenance. tell me about your canned air. bob
at the top of  is the welcome and other posts at the top. inside you'll gain access to some laptop repair book content and more. i'll wait for your reply to see if you are keeping up with your laptop maintenance. bob
hi! thank you for your prompt reply! sorry for my silly question but what do you mean by &quot;canned air&quot;? something related to the dust settled in the radiator? it's a product for cleaning electronic stuff like this??  never used it!! pease tell me what i have to do and whether or not i need to update my bios as well (if so, please tell me how to do that: can i use the above tools instead of the third party software suggested by my bios manufacturer which is not free??).
but first no to the bios update. i see no reason to change that. you will find folk with machines that need basic maintenance reload the os, try a bios and conduct extensive driver hunts when they have yet to do the basic maintenance. if the laptop has never been cleaned then you may need to open it up to do a deep cleaning and while we are inside we replace the old heat sink compound. let me be blunt. these are not bricks. they require maintenance and if the owner doesn't they usually get 3 to 4 years out of the laptop. here's some canned air -&gt;  i supplied links above for bonus material. here's a video on canned air and laptops.  yes, there can be some software issues but given the age of the machine and your answers, it's time to do the maintenance. later after this work is done, we'll talk about grif's advice. it's at the next link.  bob
ok there! i'll buy that product as soos as i can....problem is i live in italy, so if i buy it in us via amazon it will take ages before being dispatched at home. maybe i'd better buy here in my local town even thogh at present don't know where to go (pc shop??) did you have ever experience similar cases as mine? i mean, could the two issues mentioned above be really due to canned air and dust inside the radiator of my acer laptop?
strange. while i've yet to go to italy, i've found common stuff like that in all countries. guess there's less hot air there? i'd look at a pc or computer shop for such but at a camera shop i could find this thing:  as to similar cases? over the years, a few thousand. however you have to think it's good for the industry folk don't care for the computers. keeps the industry in business. bob
