hey i wanna buy a new windows laptop and i am wondering buy the toshiba satellite l855 b511 or the hp dv6?. they are both almost equal in options but the toshiba has 3.4ghz while hp has 3.1 ghz but it's not a big difference and that's why i am wondering so which one do you think is better? also if you know another laptop with good features please let me know it's name. btw, i have a macbook pro so please if you list a name of a laptop please i want it with chiclet keyboard like the mac ty
hp has got problems. i've had toshiba laptops the last 5 years, and have as yet to have a problem with them (knock, knock).
i already had the hp and it was fine but that was since around 4-5 years so idk about the new hp what type of problems did u face with hp?
right out of the box there was a bug/defect. at 3 months i had the time to call it in. 8 hours on the phone and they take it back. what's not good about what happened next is that they returned it in far worse shape than they got it. before it had a bug. after their repair it would lock up in minutes. to make matters worse the support calls were answers with &quot;we've done all we could.&quot; at 9 months i called it my last hp. bob
but my kid picked up that 380 buck asus k55n off amazon. we added the second 4gb memory and he's gaming on it. 2 year drop and spill warranty too. i've seen worse deals. bob
toshiba any day, i've had a few different manufacturers l/t's. toshiba with intel processor, pretty hard to beat, i presently own 2, one is 5 years old, the other a bit over a year, great units, highly recommend.
hp's tech support has got to be worse than nothing. they're the only ones i've ever experienced who will tell you things that're 100% opposite from the truth. e.g. they told me you could plug a pci card into a pcie slot. i've read bob proffitt's posts about how they were unable to fix a defective system after many months (i see he's posted about it in this thread), and seen other similar posts. there've been numerous news reports about their financial problems and the management shake-ups they've had in recent years too.
does not matter what matters are the chips inside intel for business amd for games
