after using select all, copy, paste to create larger .mov files from 2 smaller ones: the movies do not contain the resource files - qt reports &quot;cannot find file &quot;name of file.&quot; same happens after using &quot;add audio file&quot; via the edit menu. previous: these operations worked 100s of times. is this due to corrupt prefs? if so, which one? using a mac pro, 10.6.7 w/ 8 gb ram. no other problems. tia for any help.
is no longer being used by the system. if i remember correctly, snow leopard did number on qt pro and replaced it with qt x you can reinstall it though p
sorry, thanks for the attempt to help. but - qt &quot;7&quot; is installed in the utilities folder &quot;under&quot; snow leopard. i have been using qt pro - (that extra cost feature carries forward so that registered ,paid, users can continue to use qt pro for basic movie editing) - since i upgraded to 10.6 about 6 months ago. unless what you say is a more recent development, users should still be able to use qt 7 - pro for basic editing. apple did this split-off because they have a large number of customers who paid for the qt 7 pro app and need it for actual movie editing tasks (which are not available in imovie, for example). it gets a little complicated because imovie has a different way of doing the voice overs and it (to my knowledge) cannot join short clips into a single larger clip. so - if you have specific information about using imovie (or any mac app) for these tasks, i'd appreciate knowing about it.
which you can then export as qt movies. i had qt pro, which i lost somewhere between leopard and lion p
has been located, thanks to your comment, and appears to be alive and well on my lion machine. check to see if your version still shows a pro. it may need the activation number again to kick it back into life just a thought p
thanks, but yes, i check the status every time i upgrade either os or qt version. i'd bet the problem lies with prefs (plists) but unless i know which one to delete i'm hesitant. in fact: qt pro will still export to different file formats from .mov - just converted one audio.mov file to .aif with no trouble. but it won't do the two common operations i've described (and need). i have worked around the immediate problem: bought imovie 11 from the mac app store and will be trying its new audio editing features (which apple dropped after imovie hd).
