hi everyone, my question is pretty straight forward. the cell processor that is used to power the playstation 3, does anyone know if i could purchase that processor as a stand alone and not as part of the ps3. it is an awesome processor and a gigantic step forward, i would like to build my new pc around it, if it is available for purchase. thanks and happy thanksgiving.
but i am curious. could you load an os to it? if yes then why not try it that way. if this processor is not of intel or amd, then you will have lots of problem getting a motherboard or design your own. is that what you are going to do? so good luck and have fun.
you can get the linux os for ps3 and turn that into a &quot;pc&quot;, but you can't get a cell processor and motherboard to create a cell based pc.
at the end supplies references and links of interest. personally i'd just look into (cheap) x86 sbcs. bob
right now as a ps3 the cell processor is capable of booting the debian linux kernel, with just some configs. although i use linux and windows in tangent i prefer windows, in which case if i built a cell based pc i would have to do some extensive configuring in order to allow windows to boot, but it is possible. in my opinion for the processor it is well worth it.
i am going to get a quad core x86 possibly either xeon or phenom architecture. but looking at the cell article i read, i was amazed at the the architecture and ability of the chip, and wondered if it was available.
you should skip it for some x86, a ps3 or if you are really wanting to get embedded, the arm family. bob
arms were powerfull processors. i thought that they were embedded for pocket pc's and what not. as for the dev kit, x86 emulators are available online for the cell processor, so you can run windows in the emulating enviroment. which of course i know would limit the power of windows over the hardware, but the emulator is open source and i thought maybe i could tweak it. if not i could boot the debian kernel then run a virtual machine or emulator program directory from the kernel. as for a ps3 i wouldn't buy one for two reasons the first being i wouldn;t use it as a pc, it's a game console. second i wouldn't use it as a game system, i am an xbox fan and as such already have an xbox which i enjoy. all this was just a far off option one that i would have to consider when i came across it. it was always my intention to go with an x86 processor, but i was curious if it was available for purchase.
if &quot;power&quot; is what you want why not skip right to the sun (.com) platforms? bob
but your reply is talking about arm embed processors, correct? as for the sun comment, i do not follow. are you speaking of the sun architecture or solaris os?
the cell processor is something of a mystery to those that are new to embedded computing. i wonder if you are aware of this subject as well as what a sbc is. if not, i need to adjust my replies. i'm getting the feeling you are not into such and should be (gently) shown more x86 gear. bob
however i am aware of enough information on the topic. the cell processor itself is not an embedded computer chip it is a full fledge microprocessor connected to the board via a socket, not soldered on like an embed. as far as sbc that is a single board computer, it means everything needed to make a device a computing device is put onto one circuit board. i am not interested in sbc, but i am pretty sure that the cell processor is not an embed.
you are looking for some &quot;system&quot; like we have in pcs where you get your cpu in some stock form for boards, etc. this is pretty much a powerpc and x86 phenom. i suggest you dive into &quot;that other market&quot; and attend a few &quot;other than x86&quot; shows to get your feet wet. your replies mean that you should look at x86 gear. bob
no cell is not an embed it is a microprocessor that's why i asked if it was available for purchase. therefore i could buy the processor and then the corresponding socket motherboard, to build a pc. and yes the cell processor is a power risc platform, not x86. but i am able to get windows to run on risc without any problem that is why i am curious.
some label the ps3 an &quot;embedded&quot; system. and today people are using x86 for embedded systems. this means the cell processor is not so limited to be this or not but let's skip to why i noted the embedded market. it's where you would find your cpu. remember it won't work in your common x86 board so by itself it is pretty much like a paper weight. why isn't a sbc, ps3 or dev kit the answer for you? bob
well i had read an article that stated that ibm was beginning to put cell chips in high end servers, non embeded. so i figured someone might know if they were available yet. this was the reason for my posting. sbc is not an option for me because it limits the design of my syswtem, in ways which would take to long to explain. as for actually buying a ps3, i don't want one, i don't want to use the console as a pc and i am an xbox fan and very satisfied with my 360. besides the ps3 to me says game console not computer, it may for other just not for me, i prefer to build my machines. and like you said a dev kit costs thousands of dollars. therefore my question was answered the processor is not available, and i will stay within the x86-64 world. no other power risc processor impresses me. thanks bob
