i bought a canon mp530 and i hate it. i'm a female and i don't know much about computers and printers but i had a canon multipass that lasted me 10 years and i loved it so i figured i would buy another. i refilled those cartridges on the old multipass to death and they worked fine. now i find out that canon has installed a &quot;smart chip&quot; in their printers and you cannot refill a cartridge. i cannot afford these cartridges each time i am out of ink, i will go broke. i tried all the tricks to reset the printer that are suggested on blogs on the internet and nothing works. the printer will no longer print at all because it thinks the cartridge is out of ink even though i refilled it. i'm pissed at the company that sold me $50+ worth of refill kits as they knew these could not be refilled. i have to buy another inexpensive all in one printer that works well and i know for sure you can refill the cartridges. can anyone please make a suggestion? thank so much, rosey
for instance at home, office and labs we use the hp k550 and its successors and for scanning we use those freely gifted scanners that people can't seen to get working (freecycle on google.) those under 99 buck printers are shortlived affairs so i never note any of them and about refilling. that had to end since people would refill then call in for support. sadly the fallout was the chip. bob
thanks for the suggestion bob but yes, i really do need an all in one for home use.
go to the store, see what's offered then back to the internet for reviews. keep in mind that refills are rare now.
bob do you know if these chip resetters really work? looking on line and they run about $70. read in a few blogs that people bought them and they worked but they are not available here in the usa. have to buy from ebay seller in germany. a little apprehensive about that but it would certainly solve my problem with the canon.
all the clients i have don't have time to fiddle with those things. they may work but when it doesn't the time lost makes any savings vanish. the lessons in the field have me using cartridges from amazon for the price and never bothering with refill kits. my costs are not very high at all. bob
if you do a lot of printing, say 500 or so a month, you would be better off going to a laser printer instead of an inkjet. the most ink forgiving inkjet printers are probably the hp units that use the 02 series cartridges(more for home use) or the 88 series (geared more toward light office use)kodak has a couple of all in ones that are claimed to be much cheaper to run but there have been some software issues with them, supposedly the glitches have been worked out. but again, for quantity a laser is more efficient but way more expensive (especially color all in ones} and the cartridges are pricey.
with epson they are necessary and, for the most part, work very well. just note there are several versions out there as epson continually updates their smart chips, so be sure you get the right one. (personally, i've never been a fan of epson printer quality, though.) for hp, cannon, and lexmark, though, such devices or software packages are often difficult to find and, in truth, frequently scams. the little 'tricks' of covering specific contacts on the ink cartridge before reinserting in a certain pattern haven't failed me yet. however, the 'tricks' still do not enable you to use a cartridge past its expiration date. john
