specs: old mobo: pc chips m811 v3.1 new mobo: pc chips m863g old gpu: nvidia geforce 5500 fx new gpu: radeon 9550 proc: amd athlon xp 2400+ ram: kingston ddr400 512mb plus a lite-on cd/dvd drive and another atapi dvd drive so, as soon as i reinstalled windows (didn't format, just did a fresh install), updated my drivers and ran windows update a hundred times, my system is running noticably slower than it was before. the first thing i noticed was that my bios was reporting that i was using an athlon 1800, or something, which was fixed when i adjusted the cpu frequency to 133 in the bios. this was after i tried adjusting it to 166, where my system wouldn't start up and required me to clear the cmos. the dram clock is set to automatically by the bios, which is 200mhz. the dram cas# latency is set to automatic, because i don't have any idea what it does. the slowdown is especially noticable when i'm running games, where the fps were 40 to 50, are now like 10 and 15. i've also been getting &lt;i&gt;blasted&lt;/i&gt; by random, like, sound bursts of static. it's very painful. so am i forgetting something? should i try formatting? any suggestions?
oh, this is definitely important. my cpu is reporting to be running at 2ghz, but i'm certain that before it was running at ~2.4. also, the key difference between the 2 motherboards is that the new one runs at fsb 333, the other one was fsb 266.
which version of the m863g did you get? the 5v or 3v. and did you make sure all the new parts are speced right. i noticed you did not use the recommended memory. although it might work you still can't guarantee it's even running at 333. messing with bus speeds is ok as long as you know what you are doing. personally, i wouldn't even use your setup for gaming. i'd be using a 800fsb with the cpu to match and the dual-channel memory. but, i can understand if you are constrained by the pocket book. so, as long as you are not using what was recommended i can't help you. check those things out. maybe you'll find you mismatched some things. good luck. and life goes on... jack
i didn't see any indication of recommended memory anywhere, and, again, though my previous motherboard wasn't as good, it ran on the same ram without a hitch. but what would you suggest i do? find ram running at 333? i'm having a very hard time understanding why my previous set up worked better than this one. the performance is just as bad when i'm not running any big apps. cursor lag, window lag, it's very disturbing, and it is absolutely boggling my mind.
v5, by the way.
the ddr400 memory will work but only at 333mhz because the fsb is only 333. let's look at your performance (lack of) issues. what do you use for anti-virus/spyware/adware/malware and registry cleaner software? if you haven't done any of that you need to. sounds like you may have picked up a virus/trojan/spyware somewhere. there are plenty of good free ones around. let us know. and life goes on... jack
you must have messed up. did you set agp settings correctly? are you using ati drivers instead of nvidia?
