this morning i booted up my pc and the keyboard, mouse, wi-fi and sound card do not work. i have checked the bios and all usb functioning is correct. when i load my windows recovery disk both my keyboard and mouse work. so there is no hardware problem. i have run start up repair many times with no success. win7 will boot to desktop, but all devices fail. i have renamed my c:/windows/info to ink bak, and replaced it with an info folder from my wife's working pc. this did not work. please help me
why isn't the usual system restore to a prior date an option and choice? bob
devices ??
hi and thank you for your help. windows has very unhelpfully deleted all my system restore points. even tho i gave system protection 25% of my 1tb hard drive to use it still deleted the restore points. i even kept back up restores on another hard drive, which have also been removed by win7. no devices connected to the computer work. all the usbs are dead as is the wi-fi and the sound card. there is no way for me to access the device manager even tho win7 has booted up. i have tried to boot in safe mode but just the same, no mouse or keyboard. both the mouse and the keyboard work and are recognised when the windows dvd boots into recovery. bios recognises the keyboard and the mouse and they both light up before windows starts. imediately after the bios check finishes and win7 begins to boot, both are deactivated. apologies for the bad typing in my original post. i was usinjg my xoom which has a handy spellchecker. the files i renamed and coped were the c:\windows\inf
does safe mode work?
hi r profitt thank you for your help. i can start in safe mode but win7 has the same problem and disables the mouse and keyboard so that i cannot achieve anything. i'd thought of editing the registry in safe mode to see if that would have helped but i cannot. i've also tested all the usb slots when win7 boots and they're all dead. no matter which ones i plug my keyboard and mouse in to they do not work. interestingly the cd/dvd drive seems to be recognized in this state. if i put a disc in i get the normal pop-up with the options to open and examine the files. this all seemed to happen yesterday after i tried to jailbreak my iphone. i'm sure this is a coincidence as i continued the process with my wife's pc and succeeded.
more work than a startup repair, but it should help. kees
hi kees and thank you for your help. i was dreading that due to the info on the hard drive. so what i've done it to order a new hard drive from amazong (a cost of &#163;50 thanks to windows 7's failure). i'll do a clean install onto that and use the current one as storage.
