hi! so i just bought a new 1 gb crucial ram for my hp pavilion media center tv m7750n pc (  )and i can't seem to fit the ram into the slot on the motherboard (i have to force it in, and then the pc wont boot, and gives off a beeping sound). the ram that i brought was crucial product #ct12864aa53e (1gb 240-pin dimm 128mx64 ddr2pc2-4200 unbuffered) and i'm sure that it matches the 2*1 gb ram that already came with my computer (i verified the memory specifications with hp's website and other websites) thanks for any suggestions. i am desprate for that extra 1 gb performance, because i run really memory-eating apps! .
only allows it to be installed one way. how much ram do you have now ? vapcmd
visiting the web link you provided, states that the ram is ddr2 type. further, you mentioned you brought just 1 ram stick. in order to use the ram in ddr2 mode, you need actually 2 ram sticks, thus another 1gb ram stick is required to quiet the beeping. that will be a total of 4gb which undewr the os will accept and further only see 3.5gb of it for use but it will acknowledge the 4gb total. google if you want more into. imho, you need another 1gb ram stick or return the 1gb you brought for 2x512mb ram sticks in order to populate the ram slots if you like. tada -----willy
have purchased 2 @ 512 to take advantage of dual channel architecture but i'm not sure i agree with . . . 'in order to use the ram in ddr2 mode, you need actually 2 ram sticks, thus another 1gb ram stick is required to quiet the beeping.' another stick is not required and it's not consistent with what's stated on the crucial site...see below.  &quot; q: do i have to install matching pairs? a: no. no, you can install modules one at a time, and you can mix different densities of modules in your computer. but if your computer supports dual-channel memory configurations, you should install in identical pairs (preferably in kits) for optimal performance. q: does my computer support dual-channel memory? a: yes. to benefit from the performance advantages offered by dual-channel systems, you should install memory in identical pairs. installing a kitted pair is the best way to ensure that your modules are identical, right down to the chip count.&quot; vapcmd
about your specific computer; i went to the crucial website, from there i entered the specific make/ model and this is what it came up with:  you don't have to buy exclusively from crucial, but it gives you specific details on the memory or your setup
