hey, alright so i've been having this probelm for awhile but now its really not working. the first time it happen was when i restarted my computer one time, it just shutdown and didn't turn back on, then it wouldn't turn on. what the computer does is the power light turns on, i can hear my fan getting a lot of air. the probelm is, my computer has a huge fan so it doens't always run at full speed. just when it starts up for about 2-3 seconds, then if it gets hot. when i turn on my computer and i get the probelm my van just keeps sucking in air. its like my computer is working fine and it turns on, but its only working right for abut 1 second. after that second it like freezes or something it just sits there. my lights turn on, my dvd rom trys reading my cd's, but my montior just stays black. the computer some times after awhile turns on normal, but only after i turn it on and off many times, each time it always a differnt # of times, and this time it wont just turn on. if any one has any ideas please thanks -mythraz
1. you may go for check connecting a different monitor. if it works then after start deleat all driver files of earlier monitor. then reconnect earlier monitor and put correct driver and set correct setting of monitor ( i.e. 24 or 32 bit and 800x600 or very apropriate which monitor can sustain/see the monitor manual). 2. if 1 above does not work then please post the number of addon cards present in your pc and also video detail (i.e. onboard or agp or pci). will try then after.
most monitors do not require a driver, your problem might be the monitor itself or a connection for the monitor but not a driver.
in most cases as yours, replacing the psu with a good one of equal wattage or *better* is the 1st step in a repair process. however, it maybe possible the mtrbd. or another compoent has failed. the fans, etc. turning on only suggests that at 12v is working, there are other voltages and likely one rail(v-outputs) has failed or been stripped of the amps it needs to turn things on. the clue is repeated attempts may get the system going. the mtrbd. may have a failed capacitor(cap) that blown or leaked, etc.. a user can reduce the power demand by reducing the system, thus a possible clue if it boots-up. that's no cure it just points int he right direct, replace psu. tada -----willy
