help me anyone, i recently had to reformat my computer due to a serious virus and in the process of re-installing my systems i put my hp printer disc into the system. it used to work, or should i say, respond as soon as you wanted anything to print.but since i`ve got things back and running ok the printer takes about 20 mins to print anything off. it says it`s printing when i check the status but i can`t wait that long for stuff, seeing as it was ok before hand. i have downloaded hp software, drivers and stuff to make it as it was but still no luck.. any ideas??? i`m desperate.. the disc i have with the software doesn`t make any difference. both inks are low and in need of refilling, will that make it slow down? or is it another issue? please help wolfey
detach ptr. from system and do a &quot;self-test&quot;, is it ok? also, when on the system, do its own test pattern output, is it ok? besides the reloading of the os, etc, plus all drivers, have you updated the os as well to include dx, etc., any updates fromt he ms update service? of course the printer should be at its best, if under its test pattern it mentiones, low ink, replace. tada -----willy
what causes the printer to try to print and feed paper after you print only one page?i tried hp support and followed all the steps,without any success. thanks for any help,edward
please explain under what conditions the extra paper feed, etc. causes the ptr. to behave this way. i do suggest make a simple text test page using notepad and then print it out, if it prints ok but feeds more than required, then you may have a problem with the system rather the printer. what are the results? tada -----willy
what does os and dx mean???? i have tried to update with ms but to no avail.i`m in need of some major help. when i installed it the process said i should use the ltp1 port is that right? or should i have it set for something else.i`ve never rebooted a system before and didn`t look at all the settings for stuff before we cleaned everything off.i`m at a loss as to why it was ok and now it`s a slow as the preverbial snail! gooner
i went into notepad and typed a line and whent to file print.it printed fine but tried to feed more paper and tried to print. edward
i suggest you check the setting to see if the &quot;media&quot; is the type you're printing to. if not, change it and save it before exiting. plus, you should at least redo the setting to &quot;defaults&quot;, try a print, if its ok, great if not then verify what the changes should be made. very possible the print area of the media is smaller than it should be and/or an &quot;autofeed&quot; is proper for to be ready for next print job. the reason i mentioned a simple print test for output. also, if you have footer cmds. remove them, these are the items &quot;page 1&quot; or &quot;file123.txt&quot; that get printed out along with the next, default them or blank(no cmd.). tada -----willy
