i have a toshiba satellite u305 laptop w/ vista. i haven't had any major problems with viruses or major shut downs for the past 4 years i've owned it, it's been pretty dependable. i purchased a wd passport external hdd, 500 gb in march,2011. oct '11, out of nowhere, when i try to access the disk i get an i/o operating error and it shows as local disk h:, cannot be accessed, cannot be checked by antivirus software. same issue on other computers, tried uninstalling, tried the chkdsk f:, nada. friend tells it's corrupt. purchase new 1 tb toshiba canvio basics external hdd. used once to transfer files, no problems. second time, plug in, starts clicking. file transfers become slow, then stop. computer shuts down, get blue screen of death. reboot, hdd shows as local disk h:, windows explorer freezes when i double click on the drive. hdd starts screeching. i know clicking and screeching are signs of actual hardware problems inside the hdd. but, once again it shows as local disk, but doesn't give the i/o operating error as the windows explorer keeps freezing. bad luck with hdds, or could this be from my computer? also, any suggestions on how to get data from my wd hdd? 255 gb, lost! i'd also like to note i have never dropped either hdd and also remove the drives safely.
were the drives on 24x7?
no, never. i always safely removed the drives after using them.
here's what i find sometimes and it seems to occur as you stated, it works great for some time, then poof it doesn't. generally speaking, the laptop itself is to blame. usb ports on laptops are just not made for prolonged or demanding usage, especially with ext. hd's involved because they are the most power hungry. they either weaken the power supplied or the electronics or path provided. that basically means, it being &quot;over-driven&quot; and surcomes to physical damage and *may* in the process cause damage to the ext. device. i found this to happen to older cameras too. actually an older camera works ok, but the port doesn't. since, you stated the ext. hd doesn't work elsewhere, you have a 2ndary problem. the fix, is to replace the laptop mtrbd. and proceed to use usb ext. powered hub to isolate future issues. if the problem happens, there is no easy end-user fix, the damage is done as explained. if you want to retrieve the data, then place on another pc and see if it works. if desktop, use direct usb port on mtrbd. at rear or powered ext. usb hub. still doesn't work, it's damaged. you may then want to try to extract the hd inside and then use an adapter like a ada-2020 or yet another ext. usb case. if the hd still doesn't work, the hd is damaged or its pcb. however, there maybe the chance to re-use the ext. hd if reformatted. i use hp usb format tool, practically works with any usb device. tada ------willy
i'll try using the new, screeching one on another computer to see if i can access it. thanks for the advice!
