i'm anything but a networking guru but have always liked 3com products in that arena. they price above linksys, netgear, et. all but below cisco. i still have a box full of old 3com 3c905 nics harvested from older pcs that i still use when running into problems with other such devices. they just always work right from the get go. some of the ones i have actually say &quot;made in usa&quot;, if you can believe that. some are made in ireland. my home network uses 3com office connect products which all stack neatly together. these include a router and wireless ap that never lock up...though your mileage may vary. interestingly, i have an hp office connect print server designed similarly to my 3com office connect products and stacks with these as well. i suspect 3com made the print server and maybe have partnered with hp in the past for networking products. 3com seems to have lost some popularity as home networking has exploded and lower priced networking products have taken over. hp makes decent printers but i know nothing about their procurve networking line...just hope they won't steal 3com's name and turn out junk.
buy it to enter the consumer space but to compete with cisco in enterprise. should be an interesting contest to watch. if you can help it (money?) don't buy consumer grade it products from any maker. buy their commercial/small-business/enterprise stuff and you should be ok. not fancy or pretty, but functional and durable.
i've no formal training but have worked in electronics, communications and medical devices as a hobby or for pay since i was old enough to rip apart an old tube type radio. in spare time now, i provide support in a small school. while i love doing that, i don't love spending too much time there. my wife is the tech coordinator there and we've insisted that the school let us pick out hardware and vendors. this means custom built pcs with hardware of our choosing. i could build these myself but not as inexpensively and don't want to be responsible for warranty repair. for the school network, i personally was involved in pulling all the cable, wiring the cabinet and selecting switches and such. all are 3com including a poe switch for the 3com access points placed in the school. i've never had a failure of a 3com device there and operation has been smooth and trouble free. that's how i like my volunteer job to go. we've had our share of good hearted people wanting to donate their old pcs, printers, and such. most have been a headache and just something we need to find a nice way to thank them for the donation and discreetly dispose of their junk . i agree with you. start off with good quality stuff. your wallet may be lighter but you won't need to spend half your life in these forums trying to get your gear to work.
