hey, i have setup a static ip address through windows xp, and i am trying to forward ports to my xbox 360 (to avoid strict nat settings). the problem right now is that i cannot access my routers set up page. i am using a d-link wbr-2310, which is not installed on the pc, but runs a password-protected wireless network. i have run ipconfig, and have obtained the ip address and default gateway. when i type either in my web browser (tried firefox/ie) i am led to my dsl modem's setup page and not my wireless router. i have tried every ip address possible (from the default router address to the ipconfig) and i cannot access my wireless router setup. through the d-link website, i have also tried to use an emulator, but i am unable to make any changed regarding port forwarding. once again, my wireless router is not installed, and the installation is not working because &quot;the router is not detected- error 322&quot; i have been trying to solve this problem for the past 4 hours with no luck so i would appreciate any help! thanks in advance
the problem is that the two have matched ip addresses.
thanks for your reply. do you have any idea as to how i can solve this?
....but my experience was that the router adopts the modem's ip address (or vice versa). in order to access the router you may have to disconnect the modem and reboot or reset the router (though i didn't have that problem you describe with a dlink cable router i worked on).
let's not use or speak of that again. in this forum in the top or second post and reply number 17 shows how to use your dsl modem's router and add your new d-link wbr-2310. this setup is slightly advanced so until you read our top posts in this forum and specifically reply 17 i expect most to be confused by this. bob
thank you bob, i have read the reply 17, which redirects me to the following site:  i am quite confused on what to do, i have had this router for over 2 years and i have usually been able to access its management. i had to reinstall windows xp, and i have been unable to reinstall the routers software (which i am told is not too helpful). as mentioned earlier, i have set up a static ip address, and i am trying to forward this port to my xbox 360. i'm sorry if i am repeating myself, but i have no idea where to go. i am unable to manage anything related to the router, and therefore, i don't think i can follow the instructions on the website (which asks me to change the ip address of my router, which i am unable to do). i feel as i am making a mountain out of a molehill. thank you for help and patience
that you land at the modem+router page then it is very possible the moder+router (sorry can't find where you share it's make, model and settings) is performing as a router. when you have that situation then you configure the next router as noted in reply 17. now you write it worked before but since the modem+router could have been reset and taken up the job of the dhcp server and router we have to forget how it worked before and approach this as if it's the usual new setup. bob
