my wife's computer's hard drive died. i tried installing both ide and sata drives to use for the restore. none of them are recognized by the disk management system on the restore cd. the bios shows the hdd. i partitioned and formatted the new sata hdd on my computer and reinstalled it on the wife's computer. i have changed all of the hhd settings shown in the bios i.e. achi/ide and native/legacy. the motherboard is intel; i think it is dg33fb, but i cannot find the model number. the defective hhd was a 320 gb seagate. the new hdd is a western digital 500 gb. the cd that came with the wd is supposed to be bootable, but it will not boot. i tried asking microsoft, but they claim it is a hardware problem. i am at a loss as what to do. help, please!!!
cd/dvd drives loose boot capability but work fine in windows so no surprise to me (just those that encounter it the first and about the first ten times.) microsoft is right to not support this but it is annoying. let's not ask them to support booting a wd cd. -&gt; try disabling ahci mode. without a driver diskette (the famous f6 floppy you find at google) xp has no clue what sata is. bob
sata wasn't offered when xp came out. thus you need the driver provided by the hd maker. visit the wd support website and get it or check your wd cd and see if its there. if so, expand it and make a bootable floppy(usually) or access by another bootable means. thus, when you use your restore cd when it asks, &quot;outside drivers needed/required&quot; or similar wording during the xp install. a restore cd should offer small menu to supply whatever to continue the install process. fyi, the making of xp install on another system just won't work when swapped to the end system. on top of the sata issue you will have a xp blank screen or blinking cursor as a result. review the bios setting so sata is active and/or both sata+ eide if you plan to use eide too. you will need also to make the boot order, if sata is going to be the primary boot device, enable it. you may need to play with it for best results as it varies from bios to bios and mtrbds. tada -----willy
wd will not supply a driver for your computer or the drive. sata is part of the motherboard and the driver is from that maker. bob
