i will be buying a desktop at some point in the next few months, and am seeing a lot of low- and middle-range desktops are now sporting ddr3 ram. i am wondering how it compares to ddr2. i asked in another forum, and was told that the performance difference between the two is not that great. i find this hard to believe, but have no way of knowing for sure. what do people here think?
they're right and wrong at the same time. for example a single channel ddr2 is beat by a single channel ddr3. and a dual channel ddr2 (two sticks of ram) bests the single stick of ddr3. but all this is forgetting the rest of the package and never tells you which package is the better performer. bob
that 2 2-gig sticks of ddr2 would beat 1 4-gig stick of ddr3? or have i misunderstood? i'm aware that there are different speeds of ram, as well as other things that could make a computer run more quickly, so if possible, we'll have to treat this with an &quot;all other things being equal&quot; condition.
unless we have the entire package to consider, you can find confirmation of such claims and proof that such claims are false. you need the package to see which is the better deal. however. and this is the big one, today you should be finding great values in the old ddr2 based systems. if value overrides the performance issues them post a question about the packages you are considering to see what people think. to pick a system just on memory type is a bad idea unless there is a reason such as you paid thousands for some old memory and you must get more years of use. bob
ddr3 is better than ddr2, plain and simple. let's not get into the specs but if you check them its more visible. just don't be so engrossed that's its that much better by leaps and bounds. expect some improvement but as already explained its also boils down to the actual config of the pc setup. its still best to mount in matched pairs to really benefit. overall, you're better off having ddr3 as its the latest ram out there and you can add to it as time goes by. tada -----willy
i have seen that in the $400-600 range for desktops, i can get an intel e-series dual core chip and 4 gigs of ram, although occasionally in that range i can also find intel's i-3 chip. often, looking at 2 similar comps, i'll see one with ddr2 and the other with ddr3. but i take your advice about needing to compare overall systems. when i'm ready to buy, i'll post links of two systems i'm thinking about and i'll let you folks have at it. thanks.
see my reply to rproffit's post above.
i can safely bet that 99 out of 100 systems if i see some pentium e series dual core and find the intel i3 for the same buck the i3 will be the better choice. not only do you usually get the better ddr3 but the i3 has hyperthreading and shows up as 4 cores which translates into quite a speed gain even for mundane things. the i3 also is your &quot;green&quot; choice with better energy use. however i expect the older pentium dual core e series prices to continue to plummet as that model is for the very price sensitive end of the market. bob
it's cost vs. performance. personally i have never uses ram as a yardstick. the rams are determined by the motherboard that you pick and that in term by what cpu that you use which are determined the cost and performance factors that you need. that how i look at it.
as i know ddr2 ram chip is not compatible with ddr3 ram chip; it means you cant use both chips simultaneously on a single motherboard. either you have to use ddr3 or ddr2 at once. one more thing i want to tell you about ddr3 that it is a bit sticky, it uses embedded multiplexes to enhance the data transfer rate on the system unlike the ddr2.
might as well go with ddr3 since you are upgrading now. the memory is one of the first upgrades you will do later so start with ddr3. if you go with ddr2 you will have sticks laying around you have no use for in the future.
here are the priorities for choosing memory for home computers: 1. having enough memory is the most important thing. that means 1gb for windows xp (or 2gb-3gb for serious photoshop work, video editing, and 3d gaming). and, 2gb for windows 7 or vista (3gb for photoshop, video editing, 3d games). if you have the 64-bit version of windows you can install 4gb, 8gb, or more but there is no marked benefit except in massive photoshop/video work which few people do at home. so, if you're on a budget first be sure you have enough memory, even if it's a slower type. example: ddr2-667 instead of the faster, more expensive ddr2-800. or, ddr3-1066 instead of the faster, more expensive ddr3-1333 and ddr3-1600. 2. assuming you have enough memory, then memory speed (and to a lesser extent, latency) determines how much data your system can transfer per second to get the job done. ddr3 is faster than ddr2. in photoshop, video editing or converting music to mp3, faster memory means the job is completed sooner. (in 3d games, faster memory will help a little bit to get you more frames-per-second but mostly that's determined by the memory on your video/graphics card.) suppose you want to convert a music cd to mp3 format. with faster memory the conversion could be completed 40 seconds to 1.5 minutes faster. what you must decide is how important is that minute? for most of us, an extra minute or even three minutes simply doesn't matter. but, if you are doing a lot of music, or photos, or video work then the time saved will quickly add up and you will really appreciate that you have a fast processor and fast memory. remember, even the basic dual-core processors and 2gb of ddr2-667 memory will complete the job faster than a high-end processor and memory from 5 years ago !! in the end, it depends on what you want to do on your computer and how much you can afford to spend. good luck!
ddr2 sdram  ddr3 sdram  the faster the ram the lower the latency; the time it takes to move information in and out of ram. other factors apply as well. this thread untracked.
i agree completely with the above post. it all depends on how you use your computer. for most basic uses, web surfing, word documents, etc, then either ddr2 or ddr3 will be fine. if you are a heavy pc user (gamer, graphics, calculations, ripping, etc) then spend a little more for the faster memory chips. i also agree that processor choice, and video cards are also major factors in the makeup of your system. point being, makes no difference how fast the memory is if the processor is bogged down. so there really is no way to tell you what is best for you without knowing all the particulars, and how you plan to use the pc.
if you get a new computer with windows 7 home premium how much memory does it need and does it matter if it is 32bit or 64 bit??
depends on what you're going to do with it. you didn't tell. kees
cas latency should be higher with ddr3, just as ddr2 has a higher cas latency than ddr but the slower cas latency is made up for by having a higher overall speed. bandwidth is also increased with ddr3. from the last i read, ddr3 should be close to ddr2 pricing in 6-9 months. further development should also bring the cas latency down with ddr3. right now, unless a person has lots of money, and some people do, then its better to build using ddr2. even intel has recognized this by designing an x48 mobo that will use ddr2.
plan on getting windows 7 home premium 64bit and would like to know how much it takes to run with all the hidden things that also use the ram. pus, what the max would be as i plan on keeping the computer for a longe time and would like to have enought slots to accomated the future.
tbh if you're running cuda or physx applications, then your cpu and ram will be doing bugger all anyway, your gfx cards will be doing all the work.
