hi we have i-mac 20&quot; with built in i-sight power pc, one of last ones i think before the intel. we have had a few problems before with it powering down and going to sleep. used to hoover dust out and that seemed to fix it. now it won't start at all. i have tried all the pram and various commands to re set various things but none of these work. we had a wireless keyboard and i have just tried a wired one but i do not think either are connecting as the tab key light does not come on, which it does when i tested the wired on on my lap top. when it died it crashed with a cd in drive. i have removed this and replaced it with the mac install disk to try and run the disk check but the optical drive is not starting at all either. all that happens on start up is the sleep light comes on, then after a few moments fan starts to whirl. i can''t hear the hard drive - have tried to rock hard drive to get it to spin but nothing. just wondering whether worth trying to replace optical drive or is this being controlled by hard drive - hence its not working nor hard drive. is there any way to recover data if it is the hard drive that is dead? anything else i can try and replace to fix it? could i use an external optical drive connected via usb to start? i have tried to firewire but not joy their either! many thanks john
what response did you get? any attempt at powering up? powered up but did not actually boot? flashing question mark? p
hi screen remains off, sleep light comes on. little to no noise, no clicking hard drive or anything. then fans starts in about 4 minutes - its like its never awoken from sleep! the only thing i can think to do is take hard drive out - see if that works and recover data.i am nw wondering may be its a logic board failure? they seem pricey enough to replace and not sure if worth it on 6 year old mac? john
just three captive screws on the bottom and the whole back just lifts off. everything is accessible from there. removing the hd is certainly an option, from your description it is probably just fine. try this before removing the drive. remove the back, remove the little battery and leave for 20 minutes. put the battery back in, replace the back, keyboard and mouse & power cord. try to start it. if you get a reaction, good. if not proceed to remove the hd and recover data before doing anything else. it may be possible to get a replacement board but, given the age of this machine, it may be time to consider a newer imac. p
hi thanks for that - where is the battery i haven't tried that - its a g5 imac isight, so quite tricky inside? many thanks
had a case change and is not so easy to get into. if you have never tried this before, i would advise against it. on these models, it is not the back that comes off, it's the front, and it is held in by some clever clips that require a bent piece of flat, fairly rigid, thin plastic. it is doable though, just really tricky i could send you instructions if you decide to proceed. p
hi i am in, have removed hard drive just would like to try the battery fix but can not see for the life of me where its is. i am guessing it is under something else i need to take off? i think i will need a special screw driver - done ok so far but some of these screws in side i am struggling with - if you can tell me where battery is that would be great thanks j
that's where apple says the battery is located. it is one of those disk shaped batterys p
thanks i am going to buy the special screw drivers. i am guessing that part is under the main body so i am going to have to pull more stuff out! ugh j
