hello, i recently started using a geforce fx5500 256mb ddr agp 8x graphics card, the problem is, whenever i open a game, the whole computer restarts when the game reaches the menu! until now, i tried freelancer and age of mythology. my specs processor: p4 1.7ghz ram: 256mb pc133 sdram agp: geforce fx5500 256mb ddr agp 8x os: win xp sp3 this might look like a thread from the stone ages by the looks of the game and specs, but please help me someone!!! thanks.
how long since you did this -&gt;  ? tell me the os install routine you used. list date and version for: a. motherboard chipset driver package. b. sound card driver. c. video card driver version. in closing, type bad caps at google.com and look for that issue. your machine is from the days you see this issue. bob
thanks for replying bob! power supply is 300w as for cleaning, i have a 500w blower machine, with which i clean quite often (fans, heat sinks n all). for the os install routine, completely formatted my c drive, then installed from cd and then sp3 as for motheboard: (from siw) manufacturer
i don't write about it since you can use google for the pictures and more. be sure to do the work. as to the power supply it's on the light side. can you unplug that second hard disk, second dvd drive to lighten the load for testing? as to the chipset driver i don't see the version intel just put out in use. here's the link -&gt;  use item 2 dated 6/2/2008. good luck. bob
nah, the link didnt work! say, can increasing my ram be any helpful? or is it because of the power supply?
250 watt power supply directx 9 does not specify ram requirements here. you may wish to search them out in the evga &quot;support&quot; page, as well as other hardware requirement to run this card. how about the most resent driver? the specifications:  evga support:  drivers:  this thread untracked.
the requirement (from manual) for the fx5500 are: ibm or 100% pc compatible with genuine pentium ii or amd k6-2 class processor or higher. one available agp 2.0 compliant slot or better, or one available pci slot (as required for your specific card). windows 95 osr2 (version 4.00.950b), windows 98, me, xp, 2000 or windows nt4.0. (service pack 5 or 6) 64mb system memory. 50mb of available disk space for full installation. cd-rom or dvd-rom drive. i think my pc exceeds all these, but still i have the problem! nd yes, i have the latest drivers installed. my friend tells me to reinstall os, but its a real pain, and not guaranteed to work, btw, there is no problem with other tasks in the pc, just games.
you have a dated system. increasing ram and swapping out the psu seems to be your best bet. under xp os, having 512mb is practical, 1gb being the most sensible. gaming just puts it all in a basket and tests the wankle out of it, so upgrade. since, you system is older don't expect the newer demanding games to run as well too after the upgrades, they want so much more as you review those requirements so beware. if possible, you may want to look for a better cpu as well for the total upgrade path options. yours *may* support upto 2.4ghz/p4 and that too needs better psu. tada -----willy
