ok i am a total networking noob. basically my problem is with the netgear wgt624v3 and that when i try to connect to the playstation network it will connect for several minutes then disconnect. all the devices connected to my network are recognised by my router and is running fine, it just seems to be a configuration problem for my playstation. if i understand it correctly this particular router has problems with upnp and ps3's, anyway i have upnp enabled and its not doing its job. so the thing i want to do really is to disable dhcp on my router and set up static ip addresses on each device, but i dont know how to disable my router form being a dhcp server? i know how to set up static ip addresses on each device that is fine. but i want to set up a dmz and forward it to my ps3 device. that is another thing i do not know how to do either. the last thing is the encryption key. i do not know what type of encryption i am using and i do not know how to retrive the key. i am reluctant to change any of my routers setup without the encryption key. i will also need help on how to set up my netgear software to input the correct encryption key if i need to set a new key in my router. will i also need to input the device ip into my router configuration? if so how do i do it? im also assuming mac addressing is disabled by default, if any different can you please explain? can you also explain how i find out my ssid address? and if it is broadcasting or not? my friend wrote this post for me and sent it via a word document in msn. he was reluctant to help me as he is not all that familiar with netgear hardware and if i lost my connection to the net is totally unable to help me. if anyone has time could they give a step by step guide. cheers
but it sounds like you're going to have to reset the netgear router and start over. set it up like the forum sticky suggests. basically, you'll find that the setup wizard should work. after reset, everything is lost and gets reset back to factory settings. you can configure manually, if you'd like.(  ) login  updating the firmware in the wireless router. broadcast ssid(change this. it will make it easier to connect) using wpa-psk(tkip) security. most wireless devices work best with this type of security. mixed b and g mode(n if available) use channels 1, 6 or 11. most wireless devices work best on these channels. save and exit. power everything off. wait 30 seconds and then power everything on. try and connect. everything should connect. rick
i am the friend that wrote the post for him. thanks for the advice i found the correct v3 user manual to help him set up a dmz and disable dhcp. there are problems with upnp with ps3 devices using netgear hardware. resetting the router to factory settings is probably a bit drastic, as he is not too familiar with router configuration and is not confident with a guide alone. wireless configuration can be fun and games at the best of times. however im sure he will upgrade th  firmware before making any changes. spoon
sorry about the link in teh middle of my post i have no idea how that happened =p
just setup their router the way we suggested and they can connect everything with dchp enabled. the link in the post, you may have clicked the submit button and accidentally dragged it into the post. seen this before. rick
