i have a microsoft wireless comfort keyboard 1.0a. i like it well enough except that i find it quite noisy and it requires quite a bit of pressure to activate the keys. two quesitons... 1. any suggestions on something new in the same price range that would be quieter and not require so much finger pressure on the keys? 2. are the new keyboards being sold today..in this price range... substantively any better than this one? have things really changed...and will i notice a difference in performance? i'm fearful that i'm just wanting somthing new and that it won't...in fact...be any better. might be a little &quot;different&quot;...but not better. by the way: i've been looking at the usual products sold at the office supply stores: logitech, microsoft, etc. it's really hard to know what to buy with a cursory trial/examination (a few minutes in the store on each model, pretend typing). note: i do alot of typing!
wondering if this post is in the right forum since there has been no response.
and sorry that you've had to wait. i don't use the microsoft wireless comfort keyboard 1.0a myself so i can't compare it, but i think this may be the difficulty in these forums anyway. keyboards are such personal devices that different people with have different views. for example, i use a belkin wireless keyboard and mouse, this image , and it suits my needs. no frills, just a keyboard. the mouse is heavy, but i got used to that. your microsoft keyboard seems to be ergonomically shaped, which mine isn't, and if you need that, or it feels better for you, then my own experiences with the standard shape won't help you. at the end of the day you will go with what works best for you, but it may take a couple of tries to find it. not much help am i? mark
i appreciate your input. yes, it's largely personal preference. again though, i'm looking for suggestions on something with quieter keystrokes, keys that don't need so much pressure to be activated, and finally; wondering if the technology (since i got the model i currently use) is really much improved. i've seen pretty positive comments about the logitech cordless desktop wave pro....but mixed on how noisy it is. also can't determine if it's really much of an upgrade from my current keyboard. thanks in advance for any additional thoughts/advice. kenny
i still recommend, testing several kybds. at larger store or office centers to get a &quot;feel&quot; for what's out there. this is the only time, you can get the &quot;hands-on&quot; approach to a replacement kybd. you may find the one you like or get to like. no amount of surfing will provide that, though i recommend a brand name to at least provide the reliability of a good kybd. the rest is up to you and that is a preference you'll come to find by &quot;trial and error&quot;, i'm afraid. fyi- i have come to like the kensington brand kybd. i now use as it feels good, yet solid and not so readily pushed about when i type. usually, the only reason i abandon a kybd. is because i've worn out some keys or gotten so dirty, response is weak at times. tada -----willy
logitech every time, if you need ergo, wave would do it.
