mother board - asus a7v8x-x cpu 1st try was amd athlon t-bird 1.33 ghz / 266 pga% cpu 2nd try was amd athlon xp 1800+ 1.53 ghz / tbred% memory ddram 256 m / pc-2700 990961 mushkin r video ati radeon 7000 32 m ddr power supply 300 watts with the first mother board and t-bird cpu with total system hooked up, when you turned the power supply on, the green led on the mobo came on and stayed on. when you pushed the start button, the cooling fans would run for 5 seconds and turn off. the green led stayed lit. if you removed the cpu, the fans would run continuously when started, but of course the computer was not running. i tried the cpu in another computer and it worked. i tried two powers supplies (300 watts) that working in other computers. i rmaed that mother board. with the 2nd mother board and the same peripherals, i got the same problem. i looked more closely at the asus site and they did not list the amd thunder-bird athlon for that board so i rmaed the cpu for an amd athlon-xp 1800+ that was on the asus list for that motherboard. when i installed that cpu on the 2nd mother-board and hooked up everything or just the cpu and the memory i got the same thing except the cooling fans would power up now for just 1 second and power down. on both boards, all jumpers were in the default positions according to the manual. i have built 7 computers from parts and i have never had this problem. i don't know what to do next. new-egg.com where i purchased the parts, is willing to rma the whole pile again, but they do not inspect, test or check anything before it leaves, so i can't tell if it works when it leaves their facility. has anyone out there every had this problem? could it be the power supplies are too small at 300 watts? i know the power supply is staying on through all of this because the green led stays lit. the cpu seems to be telling the system to shut down to stand-by. i do not have a heat transfer sticker between the cpu and the heat sink because this makes it very hard to get the cpu out of the socket when you can't get the heat sink off. do the four rubber pads on the top of the cpu hold the heat sink away from the chip on the cpu when there is no heat transfer sticker? could the cpu be shutting things down in one second because they get too hot instantly? i appreciate any input. jim
if you are using just the amd and a bare metal heatsink, you're lucky they fixed that amd burnout problem. you'll use the heatsink compound or the transfer tape. use nothing and you've explained your problem. bob
thanks for the quick reply. i haven't used an amd processor since i built a 486!. i've used intels since then, so i am unaware of &quot;that amd burnout problem&quot;. so the heat builds up so fast that it will power down in one second? would that explain why the t-bird powered down after 5 seconds repeatedly, but the athlon-xp only runs for one second. more power / heat in the xp? do you think there is contact between the aluminum heat sink and the actual chip face when there is no transfer tape? i see four rubber pads that might keep the two faces apart.
the pads are there to provide a uniform contact surface between the hsf and cpu. you do not want to use a cpu without them. i would not assemble an athlon based machine without heat compound or the tape, its cpu suicide without it. try reducing the number of parts down to power supply/hsf/cpu(with compound)/onboard speaker. see if you get a beep. in addition you might want to take the board out of the box and try it on a peice of cardboard, you might be shorting out somewhere.
i have used nothing but athlons in the systems i have built, and must inform you that efficient heat transfer for this chip is critical, and indeed, amd go to great pains to stress this. this would be accentated with the barton core, as the die has less area of contact with the heat sink. thermal interface material is required on all amd processors!
dear jim, amd motherboard is very easily cook up, get icute power supply 400 watts or more is more stable & user friendly to use especially amd. second change your cooling fan to extremely faster fan such as cooler master or any bigger and expensive type of cooler fan for amd type. if you enough money get a better ventalation casing like icute that include six fan, it really help to cool down a lot at cpu, motherboard and other parts when switch on. this is greatest advise for amd case. joseph
lot of talk about a simple issue. lets condense it: did you use heat compound or the tape version? no-then do so. yes-move on. joseph pointed out something i noticed right away. power supply. even a good 300w ps is probably too small for what you have in your box. i have roughly the same setup and run a 400w ps. good luck. chuck
this looks like a bad power supply. the smps is unable to supply all the required voltages. try changing it. that's how it worked for me.
hi there. your problem you had details exactly the problem i am having now. did you ever figure this out? was it the heat on the processor. any help would be greatly appreciated. thank you.
i have a phenom 9850 msi am2+ board. i leave the computer on 90% of the time and built it myself about 2-3 years ago. i came home today and my computer was off. (i thought an automatic update took place and the machine shut off, and just did not start back up) the machine would do the same as your symptoms were. i finally took the side off and found my heatsink was not seated. i went to reattatch it and found a plastic ear was broken. the broken ear is on a square plastic ring about 3 1/2&quot;x 4&quot; held to the motherboard by 4 philips screws. so my question is does anyone sell the square ring by itself? (i have a feeling i'm going to have salvage one from an old amd computer.)
except on ebay or as part of a new heat sink system. i won't admit i've crafted temporary fixes with tie wraps. bob
look here:  depending on the cpu, intel or amd, and socket type, i have seen these in retail but much to find on ebay.
