hello, i've read some tips in other threads, but i didn't see anything that specifically addressed or clearly addressed(i'm an intermediate computer person...) the following issue. i have two hard drives, both sata. they both run at 7,200 rpm and are installed in the only two hard drive bays in the case. since these are the only two spaces, they are one right on top of the other with a very small amount of space between. i just had a hard drive go bad and now that i'm seeing the temperatures for the new one and the working old one(idling at 47 and 52 degrees celcius respectively), i think heat was a probably villain in the last one's demise. there's a large side fan over the cpu and the fan with the power supply. there are no additional built in spots for more fans. so i'm struggling to find a way to cool them without disrupting the intended airflow. i had read somewhere that a guy rigged a fan using some foam tape so that it was pointed at the hard drives and blowing towards the front of the case. is that safe/does that work? aside from that, i really don't know what other options i have. a liquid cooling system is simply out of the question budget-wise. any thoughts and/or suggestions? take care, chris
i had not given it much thought before but since you brought it up. a quick look at my hd temp shows 33/36c...that's after multi hours of on/use time. what happens if you remove the side panel? do you per chance have one of those micro/mini/slimline cases?
47c and 52c are pretty hot. best to check the mfgs site for thermal limits. i have two internal hdds and hdtune reports their temps at 24c (120gb) and 25c (200gb). they're installed in a full tower antec sx1200 case in a removable drive bay that can hold up to 3 drives. the removable drive bay has a fan in the front that pulls air in and pushes over the hdds and toward the back of the pc. bottomline if your hdds are mounted so as to be right on top of each other...it would help to separate them to the maximum practical extent possible. you could consider mounting one or both into a 5.25&quot; mounting kits and moving them into 5.25&quot; drive bays ...thats a real benefit of having extra 5.25 drive bays. there are lots of options ...it would help to see a pic if possible to see how your drives are mounted. vapcmd
from what i read, it seems everyone was agreeing that removing the side panel was only effective if you then had a desktop fan flowing over the computer. even then, it was mentioned that doing so is really bad for your computer due to the incredible amounts of dust that will build up inside on every computer component. it's not a slimline/micro/mini case. it's a medium size tower from medion(german company). it only came with one hard drive, i added the second. it also has a floppy drive, a full flash dashboard(any type can be loaded), a cd-rom, and a dvd-rw drive. that means that while there's some space below the hard drives, there aren't any left over bays to use.
western digital was saying that 55 degrees celcius should be the maximum temperature during full use. so it's definitely an issue that i'm idling so hot. i don't really use the cd-rom drive much, it's probably worth ditching that to mount one of the hard drives there? i'd do that, but i'm not sure if that will bring the temperature down enough as there still isn't much airflow over them. i think they built this with the capability of two drives but only enough space to keep one cool. i'll work on a pic. is there a way to post them?
there's no room. a solution might be to take one hdd. out and put it in an external case.
here's an inexpensive hdd cooler ... just need about 3/4&quot; free space below the hdd to mount it  for posting pics...lots of folks use imageshack.com  how many 5.25&quot; drive bays do you have ? vapcmd
was just a test. if the test shows the hd's have cooled then you have an air flow issue. just an aside. the psu ..mounted at the top.. that came with this case blew it's hot exhaust air 'into' the machine. i never understood that. anyway...i spent a few bucks and bought a psu that moved the air in the proper direction.....seemed to cool the innards much better. as for dust. i've run this machine with and without a side cover. can't say i've seen a diff in dust build up. both methods still require a regular dust bunny clean out.
alrighty. i got an inexpensive hard drive cooler similar to the one vapcmd linked to. the only difference is this one was on clearance at circuit city. there wasn't any space to mount it to the hotter of the two drives, at least not below it. so i ended up moving the main drive to the bottom and the new drive to the top where i installed it upside down. then i took out the floppy drive above it. after custom drilling a couple of holes for the upside down drive, i taped(yes, tapes) the hard drive fan above it in place of the floppy drive since there was no way to screw it in anywhere. currently, i'm back up and running with idle temps at 28 and 31 degrees celcius. i'm not sure if i'm leveled out here or if the computer is still getting warmed up. if i'm leveled out, then this fan and new positioning did the trick as it's about 15-20 degrees cooler than before. my only question now is the hum i'm noticing. it's basically a low hum and you can feel it pulsing if you rest your hand on the case. it's very low, but i can't say that i've heard it on any other computer. it started with the new drive being installed right-side up, so i'm not sure what it's from. any ideas?
you could move the hard drive to a 5.25&quot; drive bay and mount the drive cooler and drive as designed. you could also mount a fan on the other hdd is desired.
i think i might get into that once the semester ends, the whole reason this was an issue is because my computer is for heavy video editing. so i needed a quick fix. however, long term, that idea sounds much better. thanks!
