my at&t 2wire 2700 router fried a couple of weeks ago and was replaced with a 2701hg (white case). as soon as the 2701 was installed, it started dropping the wireless network connection 8-9 times a day. all the lights on the modem would remain green, and tests from at&t showed the dsl signal was fine. however neither of our computers could connect to the modem or to the internet until i unplugged and rebooted the modem. then it was fine for a couple of hours and would then drop again. our home network consists of two computers and one external hard drive (maxtor shared storage plus). the computers are an imac running leopard and a dell laptop running xp sp2. the external drive is connected to the modem with an ethernet cable; the computers are both connected wirelessly. the mac is only a few feet from the modem; the dell is maybe 30 feet away. it doesn't matter if both computers are on or only one or the other. both lose the connection at the same time and i get a &quot;connection timed out&quot; when i try to ping the modem. there are no 2.4ghz phones in our home and our microwave does not factor into this. things i have tried: 1. changing the wireless channel (several times). 2. using a sniffer app to see what channels our neighbors are using to avoid overlaps. 3. increasing our signal strength from the modem from 4 to 10. 4. setting the wireless mode to 802.11g only. 5. increasing the amount of system resources dedicated to the internal wireless adapter on the xp computer. 6. moving the modem to see if the location was the problem. figuring it had to be the new modem since the problem started as soon as we got it, we had at&t replace it today. the new one was in for around 7 hours before it dropped the connection. the only changes made from the factory settings (on both modems) before i started troubleshooting were: 1. changed security level from wep to wpa2. 2. turned off ssid broadcast. before i go out and buy a linksys router does anyone have any other suggestions? are the 2wire devices just crappy? can a neighbor's 2.4 ghz phone knock our wireless out or does a 2.4 ghz phone have to be on the same land line in order to cause interference with a dsl device? at&t is pretty much out of suggestions for us.
you should check our forum sticky. there are reasons why we suggest. 1. using wpa (not wpa2) 2. broadcasting ssid 3. all other settings to their defaults. bob
absolutely. a leaky microwave oven can do the same. but your settings are not as we suggest in this forum.
....but it was an nt post and did not go into the reason(s) for this. could you elaborate for me please?
it's been discussed to death so we always start with the forum recommendations. it's your choice to try it or not.
.....this is a place to ask questions and (hopefully) get answers from those able to provide them. refusing to answer a basic question seems a bit out of the spirit of a support forum. i'll try to find the answer to my question elsewhere.
i already answered it a few dozen times. you can rail against this if you wish but i hope you find your solution. good luck, bob
i just think that as a moderator (and i speak from experience, having been a mod here in the past), it's important to foster an environment in which people feel they can come here to get help, not get reprimanded or told &quot;no&quot; when they ask a perfectly reasonable question. yes, i found some information doing a forum search but not much, and what i found expressed opinions on both sides of the &quot;wpa or wpa2&quot; question. in fact one of the pro-wpa2 posts was yours. i found more information elsewhere without being chastised for asking for it, and i think i'm closer to a solution than i was this morning. have a good weekend.
sorry you felt that way. these forums are all volunteer and you as a member should help yourself as much as possible. the noted settings usually cure it but &quot;why?&quot; is a big question. since you seem slighted by me not answering i'll give you the most common cause. &quot;bugs in your hardware and drivers.&quot; bob
i am not sure if you still need this help, but someone might. i had a simular problem, but i fixed it with a setting change on the router. i just reduced the speed of the router to something more resonable, like 11mbps. this shouldn't affect any speed across the internet since most dsl speeds don't go over 11mbps.
i have experienced the same problem for months and at & t's technical staff are inept and most are difficult to understand because most are overseas; and their products and service are crappy. as much as i don't want to, i am thinking about going back to aol.
share if the basic setup we note here helps or not. i've stabilized too many 2wire products by changing the settings to our forum preferences. however some members forget that this is not tech support. just people helping people. bob
found this thread on a google search..... thanks for the tips & guidance in finding the answer. i have the exact same 2wire problem. am now going to search the forum for the answers i need to fix my 2wire problem oh !.....thanks for letting me be a member here
i was having the same problem at&t could not help we have a dell 1501 laptop and what i did to fix the problem for the drops was to buy a usb exturnal wifi for it i bought a linky's g wifi and downloaded it and turned off the wifi on the laptop. it will have a different network channel. to make it work after you download the cd is to go to control panel click on administrative tools click on it find services click on it scroll to the bottom to where is says wireless zero config click on it and click automatic, then at the top left it will say stop ,start or restart click the start. and then reboot you laptop. if your inturel wifi comes on turn it off. and that should fix the problem with the drops. if you have a desktop or tower it would be best to get one for it too if you are having same problem.
