hi -- i'm having some real problems with my soundblaster pci128 - i had problems installing it initially, and it was all down to the pci legacy device that it was trying to install. eventually, it just didn't install the device, and, since i don't use it, it wasn't missed. i rejigged the guts of my pc yesterday, and moved the soundcard to a different pci slot. it redetected on windows load, and it locks up -mouse, keyboard - everything - as soon as it detects the 'soundblaster pci128 legact device' - i've removed all references in device manager and rebooted - same problem. any ideas?
try booting up into safemode and go back to device mgr. go to the sound category, click the plus mark if it's not already opened up, right click the legacy device, and choose properties. once there, look for the box that says disable in all hardware profiles and put a check mark in it. click ok, and then reboot to see if the problem persists or if it fixes it. toni
thanks for the advice, but i already removed the legacy device in safe mode, so it no longer exists. i did however disable the soundblaster's main driver in safe mode, then rebooted, and attempted to enable it. it detected the legacy device again, and hung the system. any other ideas? thanks again.
i've seen that hangup when the motherboard drivers were not installed. when you dive into such issues, the make/model of the motherboard is important. bob
hi - it's an asrock k7s8x does that help, or would you need more?
all i can do is offer you clues. i noted it, so what do you do next? bob
you don't mention the version of windows, without that it really is difficult to assist anyone.
1. you did not mention the version of windows. if it is windowsxp then it normally detects & installs the card (eacept if it is not xp compatible certified in which case you need to have proper drivers) while win9x needs the proper drivers. 2. the version & model of the card? there are quite a number of models & vers of this name. vibra, wdm etc. 3. drivers can be found @  which needs registration or the manufacturers' sites: creative creative technology ltd. product &lt;  &gt; driver &lt;  &gt; or ess ess technology, inc. product &lt;  &gt; driver &lt;  &gt; files are: v128w9x.exe or ct5880_9x.exe or es1373_9x.exe es1373_wdm.exe for windows 9x, & sbpci128setupus_w2k.exe for win2000,
