i have a windows 98 packard bell pc (model 882) mother board 990 series configuration cyrix m-ii 333mhz processor hard disk maxtor 9043202 4.32 gb ram 128 mb 1. can anybody give any suggestions on upgrade 2. i primarily use the pc for browsing and also some software i have installed. since i plan to buy a new computer in the next 2 years, i want to spend a little money on this to upgrade it. my thought is just to upgrade thr hardisk to some 20gb. what kind of hard drive would be suitable for my pc??? can i get a used one??? can anyone suggest any brand, specs???
maybe you shouldn't do this? in 2 years, the landscape will look quite different and the used market will have nice things as well. it's basically worthless except for those who can use such. my best advice is to keep your money away from this machine. the issue with the hard disk was answered in your prior post. 20gb drives are rare now. and the used market may or may not be such a deal since it's all over the map. let's see, if you go and find that 80gb drive for 50usd you may want to offer less than 20 bucks for that 20gb drive. nobody i know has those. bob
will my machine support a 40gb or a higher hardisk
if you had such at a shop, they could try it, but given the age of the machine, a waiver would be signed first that any and all problems with said machine, repairs and such are your responsibility. i've seen such aged machine simple go up in one last puff of smoke when &quot;tech&quot; tried to fit a drive or card into such. its best to know that opening such a machine is dangerous. bob
hi. i have a rather old desktop at home too. the specs are: intel pentium iii 533 mhz (slot 1) dfi pa-61 motherboard (via 693/596 (pc-133)) 512 mb pc-133 sdram s3 prosavage3d 8mb 10 gb hdd windows me well, i'm planning to upgrade the computer in terms of changing the video card to maybe a nvidia geforce 2 or ati radeon 7500 (or something like that, not too expensive, but reasonable performance), and also the hard disk to 40 gb (because i need more space, plus the present hard disk is 3 years old already, i want to change it before it dies). besides my above upgrades, are there any other upgrades recommended? and, based on my current system, would you advise against me using windows xp? thanks!
let me comment: 1. hard disk. i picked up some 40gb 7200 rpm 2mb cache unit for a paltry $29.99 new (after rebates.) this is a cheap boost and very likely will install without a hitch on your pc. 2. video card. may or may not pay off. the mx series is a value item much like what the 7500 is and may give you no boost at all. besides, video performance is closely tied to the cpu and you may not see enough of a gain. if you move to the 9000 series or the geforce 4 or higher, then that's about it and is well above the current video display. best of luck, bob
thanks robert! and thanks for the luck!
you may want to check the specs for xp, i cant remember them off the top of my head, but i do know that it does take a fair amount of system rescources compared to something like win98se or winme also, you may wanto contact dfi and check on what kind of agp slot you have before going out and buying a new video card, if its 8x your fine, if its 4x so-so if its 2x i dont know how much more you could upgrade, maybe a few 32mb cards, if the s3 is integrated you have to disable it to use the new video card. unless windows catches on and does that all of the parts u need can be found at various locations on and off the web.
