first off, im a complete rookie to graphics card, so pardon if something is not clear. my system is intel piv(3.06 ghz) 1024 mb ram and intel 865g graphics chipset with 96 mb ram. these are a few issues with this card: when i installed prince of persia warrior within, it said my card didn't support pixel shader 1.1, i still ran it and things were fine. from time to time, i have seen games complaining. besides, i don't think 96 mb is considered good for a hobbyist gamer. (i may be wrong though.) what is the status of this card in today's world? it has an agi 8x slot. most games list their requirements in terms of nvidia this or that or ati radeon this or that. can i fix a non-intel card in that agi slot? (of course i'll get a professional to install it.) recently titan quest has refused to run my system, and it really boils my blood.. what is the best solution for my problems? i want an agp card that is not too highly priced and has a good value for money. by the way, i remember having read somewhere that it is possible to disable this intel on-board card. can it be done? thanks a lot in advance. plz help me out.
the intel 865g is a motherboard chipset, with the ''g'' signifying that it has built-in (integrated) video circuitry. that is not a dedicated video card. what is your computer manufacturer and model name? if a home build, what is the motherboard model name? download and run cpu-z to confirm your motherboard (system board) model number. look at the back of your computer and tell us about your power supply unit (psu). what is its maximum wattage rating? what is the manufacturer and model number? you will want to have have a video card with an ati or nvidia graphics processing unit (gpu). disabling the integrated video is one step in the process of installing the new dedicated video card. just about any dedicated video card will improve your system's performance. the better gaming video cards are little more expensive and usually start at about usd$100.
ok, as per cpu-z, model : p4i65gv chipset: i865p/pe/g/i848p (whatever that means) it's a home build. power supply: quantum hi-tech. model no. piv-300t it doesn't list any wattage, but gives a chart of volatge and current outputs. does that help? and oh, i have two hard drives. by the way, aren't consoles a better solution to the ever increasing &quot;upgrade&quot; demand of computers?
here's a decent agp card for your system: 7600gs, agp, 256mb  it will need a larger power supply: antec 450w ps  as for consoles vs. &quot;upgrade&quot; demand of pcs... if you get a pc intended for gaming, it will serve you well for a couple of years. integrated graphics have never really been suitable for gaming so a pc like yours needed an &quot;upgrade&quot; for gaming when it was new.
