my pc is in a sort of loop. it starts up and gets to the windows xp start up screen then shuts it self down and restarts. it will do this over and over as long as i leave it on. anyone know what is happening?
but your details are so light that the only fix is to reload the os or take it to the shop. one could try a boot to safe mode to see if the os is not so damaged that repairs could be attempted, but that detail is not known. -&gt; are you seeing those words in red when you post? bob
processor ( [939-pin] amd athlon-64 x2 3800+ cpu w/ hyper transport technology ) motherboard ( asus a8n-e nvidia nforce4-ultra chipset w/7.1 sound, gb lan, s-ata raid, usb 2.0 pci-e motherboard ) memory ( 2048 mb [1024mb x2] ddr-400 pc3200 memory module corsair-value or major brand ) video card ( [pci-express 16x] nvidia geforce 6800xt 256mb w/dvi + tv out video ) 400w power supply silver running windows xp. it will allow me to choose safe mode but it still shuts down at the same point. i have tried all the selections it offers and none make it past the windows cover screen. as soon as the cover screen goes off the pc restars.
if you have the full xp cd you can install a parallel install of the os and gain access to your files to back up prior to attempter repair of the os. since all safe modes fail (your reply), even the command line one, we now face an os repair and failing that an os install. here's the links for the parallel install.  use the article you can follow. if none work for you, then it's shop time since the hardware has likely failed. bob
i will try the parallel install. thank you again for your help!
i'm running into more machines where the person installing xp skips installing motherboard and sata drivers. on some machines this will work for a short while (i won't discuss why) but later the machine goes into this reboot loop as noted. reinstalling the os works but later the same issue comes up. some call xp flawed on this point but i think it's a matter microsoft should have addressed rather than pushed off to telling us to install the os properly. yes they are busy on vista but how many run xp and encounter driver issues? here's an example proper sata install link.  bob
this has happened on my desktop a few times i did a os reload it worked for a while but did not fix the core issue the core issue for me is my hard drive is bad. corruption basically is what is happening windows can not find files so it restarts and trys again. boot into repair mode f8 and try to skdisk or try spinrite. see if you can salvage the hd but eventually you will probably need to buy a new one. that is only one cause for the symptom but the most likely one.
