ok everyone im looking to purchase the q6600 processor, an evga 8800gt, 4gb of ram, and a p35 chipset motherboard right after thanksgiving... would this comp be future proof and be able to handle games in future (2-3+ years?) i want to buy this but im afraid that it will be trash here in a few months.. what do you guys think? if i should change anything what should i change? thanks -josh
this issue is well discussed. for gamers the hardware has yet to be created to say, run crysis at it's top settings. so to get that you'll have to wait. why not pick a &quot;nice&quot; machine that is 1/2 the price, use it and come back again in a few years? and about the 4gb. did you research this? many are not happy about windows and what it does to limit applications to 2gb... bob
well as far as gaming goes.. im the kind of person that doesnt need all the eye candy or the top notch graphics.. im more of a performance person myself, i just want to get a comp now that will last me a few years.. really the last comp i plan on buying for gaming use from what ive been reading the system ive listed above should be fine for future use but again im just trying to get some expert advice on this..
would be a core 2 duo, 2gb ram and a card from this list (pick the budget)  unless you research the 4gb windows issues i suggest you stick to 2gb. bob
as we speak the net is racing away into the future. at this moment millions of programers are hard at work making the net a better place. all of this work will equal more change. i've heard it said that a computer is obsolete as soon as you buy it. that pretty much sums it up. having said this i'd also suggest you look into intel penryn processors. these will available after the first of the year. this thread untracked.
this is for your ram and not anything but ram and is not an issue. if you can afford the 4g by all means go for it. where ram is involved more is always better as long as your mother board will handle it.
most of the time the buyer will be calling back asking why 4g doesn't show in windows or why windows limits apps to 2g. since windows has such a limit, it's not a good idea today. bob
don't forget that ram is available in two speeds......most all modern ram can be either 667mhz or 800mhz....it would be more beneficial to have, say 2gb 800mhz ram than 4gb 667mhz ram. cheers....jimbo
a future proof computer means that the future will come to a screeching halt. dude, if all you're concerned about is performance that quad core is going to last you a long time. at least 4 years. get a big hard drive, 2 gigs, save money where you can so you can afford a terraserver running raid 5. too many people focus on the system, and not on the network or the backup systems.
my work computer is a dell optiplex gx620 with a pentium d 915 processor, nvidia geforce 7300 pcie graphics card w/ 256 mb video memory, 1.0 gb of ram, and a 160 gb hard disk. my home computer is a custom build, reusing the case from an old hp that died. it has a pentium 4 ht 524 processor, ati radeon x1600 pro agp graphics card w/512 mb video memory, 1.0 gb of ram, and a 160 gb hard disk. both computers were new in 2006, and though not &quot;top of the line&quot; by today's standards--or even 2006's standards--they will remain useful and relevant for many years to come. both computers are running windows xp professional, and they can handle all my business programs, multimedia programs, and anything else i can throw at them, just as well as a new &quot;top of the line&quot; pc sold today. now suppose that i had spent more than twice as much on each system and purchased the fastest processor available at the time--the core 2 duo--and maxed out the ram at 2.0 gb, the largest that windows xp can handle. say that i also bought the finest graphics card available at the time, the nvidia geforce 7800 gt with 512 mb onboard. would this high-cost &quot;top of the line&quot; computer start up any faster than the pentium d or p4 ht? would it load programs any quicker, or let me run more apps at once? would it be &quot;useful and relevent&quot; for months or years longer? the answer to these questions is &quot;no&quot;. of course the answer to the last question might surprise you, but think about it. when the day comes that a dual-core 64-bit processor running at 2.8 ghz, or a single-core 64-bit processor running at 3.06 ghz is no longer able to run modern software, i can assure you that the fastest core 2 duo available 2006--or even the fastest core 2 duo available now--will be just as obsolete and unable to run stuff. of course playing video games changes everything, in the sense that a computer will become &quot;obsolete&quot; in the sense that it can no longer run new games well--or perhaps even at all--long before it is too old to run current business and productivity applications. on a gaming computer, you can expect to upgrade the graphics card more than once during the life of the machine, but again, spending lots more money for the &quot;top of the line&quot; card in a particular generation is a waste. for example, when the day comes that new games cannot run properly--or at all--on a geforce 7600, it is extremely unlikely that they'll run on a geforce 7800, or even the &quot;top of the line&quot; geforce 7950 gtx. by then, even the cheapest graphics cards available will have more processing power, and support for new commands and rendering engine.
you can't expect the graphics card manufacturers to pause their designs for 2 to 3 years. why would they do that? judging from the recent trends, diverse graphics functions (shaders etc.) are given priority over sheer speed. that is not to say they're slow. but you must admit, the new models have added bells and whistles than just speed increments. so there will be games that'll work on your current setup but they might look very different on future cards. so can you call it future-safe? these companies have a way of crippling very good systems just because they want to sell more junk. i come from a computer science background and i strongly feel towards not wasting computing resources. your quad core with 4gb of ram has a lot of potential to someone who knows what they're doing... but it's nothing if you're going to chase after ideals set by companies that just want to grab all your money... but what's the point in telling you. really!? gtw
i've never gotten rid of a mac because it &quot;broke down&quot; and since they run core duo intel processors and boot or run simultaneously in both platforms, how can you be more versatile?! you can maximize the hard drive, ram, etc. when you order it too.
listen to the proffit! i learned the hard way. windows xp does neither recognize nor use much above 2gb. know this and believe it and then feel free to buy however much memory you think your system can hold and you wallet can afford. i did (i had been informed previously, but forgot!) and now i have a really nice storage place for my extra 2gb... they are very happy there in the memory slots doing nothing at all. if anybody finds a way around that 2gb limit, i'd sure love to hear about it. pax, nelson
