note: this is similar to iceman854l's problem. recently i purchased the lacie 1tb disk extreme+. the problem is that my computer won't really recognize it. here's what happens when i turn on the hdd. it's connected to the computer through firewire 800. when i turn it on, the computer (vista os) makes the sound that indicates a device has been plugged in or turned on, but nothing else pops up. when i go to &quot;computer&quot; (vista's &quot;my computer&quot;) there's no sign of an external hdd. when i go to the device manager and look under disk drives, the hdd is somehow listed in there, so then i go to its properties and it says it's working properly, that it is online and everything, and it even shows how much space there is on the hdd... but how the hell can i get in it?! i've tried uninstalling the driver, then reinstalled. didn't work. i've tried to unplug any other devices but my keyboard/mouse. didn't work. tried to use usb. didn't make a difference. can anyone help? thanks.
that's not well supported even in vista. use these simple rules on connections. pc/windows = usb apple/macos = firewire pc/linux = your choice if you feel firewire should work please call microsoft. i see you tried usb and failed. at that point you have either not partitioned the drive and formatted those partitions or have a dead drive. bob
i use it for my digital camcorder when i record things to the computer. that works. i found a way to get this hdd formatted... the thing is: it freezes every time while formatting.  this is an image of the formatting. note that i was doing this at almost 4:00am. i left it on all night and at the moment it is still at the same stage. nothing has changed.....
remember that people have brought me these firewire problems for years. no one shows me a working system. yes somewhere for some it does work. but when people tell me of trouble you will get my take on firewire. again it's either another firewire + windows disaster or you have a defective drive. i read that you write formatting. tell me if you made the parttitions. if not, remove then, create them and try one more time. on xp i'd suggest a quick format. same for vista if you can since formatting large drives can take a very very long time. bob
would you be able to explain all that to me in bigger details? sorry, i'm just a noob when it comes to this stuff. so i was wonderng if you, or anyone, could explain me from the very start to finish how to do this whole formatting thing?
but i try to never duplicate web content like how to partition in xp or vista. let's find some pages on that.  yes! the very first link is about how to use the vista partitioning tools. after i have removed the old partition i create it anew and format it (quick mode if possible). again it does not matter if firewire works on your camcorder. try usb if you fail on the firewire link. bob
i am using usb 2.0 now. lets see if this works.
actually, someone told me something different about formatting. this also reminded me on how i reformatted my first external hdd. i opened up the command prompt window, typed in n: /fs:ntfs (yes, suddenly it became n. it used to be g: ) and so far it's working. it takes time but it's 14% complete now (almost 2 hours in the reformatting process).
then scandisk or other tool later. bob
after a long night, it has finally formatted now it's finally displaying on my computer when it's on and i can go into it woot.
