hey, i had got a meritline rist watch sometime around march'05 with 256mb of data storage on its inbuilt usb drive. i've formatted it with a secure (password-protected) partition and a non-password-protected partition. it had been working fine since yesterday. i was transferring some files from the watch to my pc, deleting those files from the watch, adding files to the secure partition...suddenly, when i tried to delete or copy anything on the watch, it showed the message that &quot;the disk is write-protected. remove the write protection or use another disk.&quot; i can still copy data from the watch to my pc, but cannot modify the contents on the watch. for the reason of being write-protected, i'm not even able to format the usb drive. please help!!!
i have the same problem of (the disk is write protected, ...) with kingston data traveller ii plus 1gb, the same like you, can not move or delete or edit or create new files on the drive although it has sufficient space. i have tried even formating under win xp professional with service pack 2, and win 2000 service pack 4, and even under dos and using partition magic, but always recieve the same message of write protection - i looked for any option to remove a write protection in the settings and properties in device manager, but nothing and no solution also on kingston faq we page - nor in win xp help i've just sent e-mail to kingston technical assitant please if any one can provide help .....
its the same problem as you guys. the write protect error. but with an apacer steno 1 gb flash drive. any help from anyone so far? i too have tried p-magic and dos and linux and xp sp2
hello i am having the same problem with my mp3 player - it is a small usb hitachi &quot;ebay&quot; purchase. it worked fine for 6 months and i can copy files from it to the pc but nothing from the pc to it. i recently installed itunes for my wife and wondered if this had anything to do with it? any help out there appreciated
if you take the hold switch/button/function off the portable drive/watch/whatever and reconnect the leads it should now work. good luck!
yo guys .. thanks a tonne! i dint have any encryption software and all my properties in windows and linux were fine. i contacted apacer however and they sent me a link to this puny low level formatter .. it did de trick and now my drive is working again.. thanks a lot again.. i am posting the link here for anyone else who has the same problem. it seems to work only on apacer .. maybe only the ht 202 . read the readme before using it.
dear friend thanks a million for your wonderful help... i was even thinking of throwing my thumdrive to any wastebin. i tried a lot of things. finally you solved my problem... thnks a lot.. love and regards surej
iam tryintg to format my usb and it tells me that its write protected. i have previously managed to format without any problems. please assist
i have a gxt 512 mb flashdrive that will not allow me to make any changes because it is write protected. how do i remove the write protection?
