i have a yamaha crw3200e cdrw...until about a month ago it worked great. decided to use it today and nothing..dead. i have it set as the slave and my dvdrom as the master. when i open 'my computer' it is detected and i can even click on it and open it when there is a cd in the drive, and it opens to a blank screen. i can even go as far as ejecting the tray from nero,the unit is detected in device manager with no conflicts, i updated the firmware of the drive. i have also uninstalled/reinstalled the drive, used multiple ide cables, and nothing. i tried my winxp cd in the drive to see if i could boot from it, and it couldn't, but the drive is detected in the bios. help me please, my computer is filling up fast...
try another drive if this drive is more than a year old. you may save yourself a lot of work. i've seen people reload the os, fidget with a dead cdrw drive for months before they give up. my lesson is to swap early. bob
i will have to go purchase one, don't really have a spare cdrw kickin around, but whatever...if $35 from futureshop cures it, i'll be thankful
this am is a aopen double layer 16x16x4 dvdrw ide drive (black) for 34.99 bucks. why go less than this? bob
i'd be lost without ya....just ordered it, thanks for the info
if anyone has priced dual layer media lately? i had heart failure when i did. i can buy another drive for the price of four disks, or a hell'of'a large hd for a few more disks. didn't want to get into the middle of this conversation, but dl-dvd disks are just too pricy for me. then again you can still use single layer disk in a dual layer drive like i do. i bought the drive before i priced the disks. and they are slooooow to burn.
yeah i had a heart attack when i seen the price too, but i will mostly be using it for backing up, and the odd movie/game...but it is nice to have that dual layer option, for those 'larger programs'...
dvd media rolled out at over 10 bucks a pop and stayed there for a few years till just recently. i reserve dual layer for the few instances its needed. -&gt; i'm found of a program called alcohol 120% which can emulate a dual layer dvd media and drive so we can test burn and play a dual layer dvd without actually recording it onto real media. a real time and money saver. bob
before spending money on a new burner, there is one possible solution you should have tried. most burners, whether they be cd or dvd or cd/dvd combos, need to be set as master and any cd-rom, or in your case, dvd-rom drives set as slave. the fact that it worked awhile back means nothing in this case. when first installed, they can do that but very soon will stop operating properly. i am willing to bet that if you were to go inside your computer and switch them, both drives would work properly. when you turn on your computer, it will automatically make the changes in your setup. if you install your new burner in the same setup you have now, with it as slave, and it doesn't work, try the solution above.
