ok, got a bunch of computer related questions: 1. is it possible to water cool the power unit? 2. can you have more than one power unit in one pc? 3. can you water cool dual grpahics cards? 4. is it possible to have a second rediator inside the computer to cool the other internal parts generaly? by doing this, is it possible to completely enclose the case to stop dust getting in? 5. i need a site where it gives detials about over clocking the cpu and graphics cards. preferably with videos. 6. what is the best way of making the water realy cold? i was thinking of sticking the radiator outside my bedroom through a removed wall brick. 7. is there a sophisticated water cooling management system by using a pci card slot? (to control flows to the graphic cards and cpu independantly according to the core temps) 8. temperature management for the air temp inside the computer 9. component communication optimising software (to make sure the different parts of the computer are communicating correctly and stuff) 10. software that detects faults in hardware (i resently spent weeks trying to fix my comp and eventually found out that the memory on the pci graphics card had gone bad.) 11. does too much volumn coming from the sound card normally cause problems? (because sometimes, when i turn it up loud, the sound suddenly stops, then comes back) thanks for any help
power and water don't mix, even on a well prepared water cooled setup, one must considser what would happen if the cooling leaked. next, water coolers can do video and cpu, just look for one, they're available and expensive. once, you get into any water cooling, besides the actual pads, everything else is outside to better handle as these items become much larger than a std. case can handle. the cooling effect is best served outside the case for returned cooling liquid. any tips/hints can be googled for by looking for &quot;modding&quot; websites that cover this topic and other related topics. as for an idea, why not use a dorm type frig. and place the tubing thru it and make added cold cooling. hope this helps. tada -----willy
ok you see, what i'm trying to create is the ultimate gaming machine for myself. i've got a good idea to what is going to have, but i'm just contemplating how to cool it and make it quite, flexability of over clocking, etc. this is what i was kinda thinking of: stuff it with loads of water cooling tubes which are being fed with realy cold water. use some custom components like a radiator that emits cool air, some taps to controll the flow of water to the different components, and a realy big slow rotating fan to keep the air moving inside the comp. i want to completely enclose it to stop my cat's hair getting inside of it. (loads of it keeps gathering on the metal grid at the intake) some good software/hardware that measures the heat levels in the comp.
since you've never done a water cooled system before i would strongly recommend that you get an all inclusive kit with a radiator, high quality pump (aquarium pumps are no good), waterblocks for cpu, video cards, etc. building a water cooling system from scratch is not for the faint of heart and until you've had some experience with them you are likely to make mistakes that may end up rendering your system flooded or inadequately cooled. you should browse some of the stuff at this&lt;a href='' link &lt;/a&gt; to get a better idea of what will work for you. zalman makes a very nice complete system with an external radiator and the ability to mix and match waterblocks to suit your needs and won't break the bank; if you want to spare no expense you should look for swiftech products. as for enclosing the system, but still have fans running inside the case, this is counter-productive; fans only work by taking air from the surrounding air and circulating it over your components then exhausting the heated air out of a rear or blowhole fan (typically). if you are really worried about cat hair and dust and you want air cooling then try to find a mesh filter.
ok, also, what is the best method of cool the water itself? stick it under the floorboards where there is constant cool air flow? stuff it in a fridge? have a heat exchanger? have an enourmous radiator with a giant fan? someone said stick the whole pc in an oil, but that would be just messy...
zalman reserator 1 plus  many modern components (cpu, hd, motherboard, video card, etc.) have temperature sensors built-in and come with temperature and fan utility software.
you should read the zalman link in my other post. unless you have a controlled research laboratory, you don't want to use refrigerated coolants because they can get below the atmospheric condensation temperature and cause condensatin inside your computer (bad). radiative liquid cooling (with or without fans) is sufficient.
thanks for that the thing is, my rooms always ends up getting rather warm... would that matter that much on that tower thingy? and what about water cooling the air entering the case?
the heat has to go somewhere. it will still be in the room if the radiator tower is in the same room. theoretically, it should take longer to heat the room because the computer has to heat the liquid, then the liquid will heat the cooling fins on the radiator, and finally the cooling fins have to heat the surrounding air. remember that water and other coolants take longer to heat (and lose heat) than many other liquids (including air). q: ''and what about water cooling the air entering the case?'' a: possibly an air conditioning unit for the window...or some type of air conditioning unit for the room?
hmmm, is there a way of sticking a few grids infront of the intake and will statically attract all of the dust instead of it going inside the comp?
many cases on the market today have filters on the intake. if not, you can modify your case to install the filter of your choice. a very easy mod.
