hi, my current system comprises of the following, of which i am looking to upgrade the motherboard: processor: 6.00 amd athlon 64 x2 dual core motherboard: asus m2a-vm1.xx hard drive: hitachi hdt 500gig sata 2 x 1g ram nvidia geforce 8500gt ieee 1394 firewire card i have 3 main uses for this pc, which are: 1.
why would the motherboard be an issue here? that is, isn't wiring something any skilled technician be able to handle and wouldn't have to find a motherboard with the exact pin for pin connections? hint: there is no standard for the onboard audio connections. bob
i just assumed that because the motherboard in my pc does not have the pin for pin connectivity that i require that there would motherboards on the market that do. ian.
are you 'planning' to reuse the cpu and the ram or not. if yes... is your mb a socket 939 and what ram are you using ddr, ddr2 and what speed ? vapcmd
you will never find such a board besides the make or model you have now. the internal connections for audio and a few others are not standardized so your skill at rewiring will come into play. bob
yes i am planning to reuse the cpu & the ram. the mb is socket am2 & the ram is unbranded ddr2 & the only other numbers on each stick is 667. unfortunately i can not find the invoice which lists the specific details of the pc's components. hope this is helpful. ian
as bob said no need for new motherboard to add a capture or sound card. for info on your mobo download belarc advisor  find what free pci slots are available and buy the appropriate cards. choose a capture card that does not require a seperate audio connection, and problem solved. my compro digital/anolouge tv tuner capture card requires no connection to the sound card. no doubt there others.
it's up-to-date. here's the link for your motherboard (mobo):  your mobo uses standardized usb pinouts. if your firewire card has an internal port, it will be standardized also. your mobo has front-panel audio port (page 1-30) and an s/pdif port (page 1-28) with simple and fully documented pinouts. if you're still having problems connecting your multifunction panel, you should replace it, and not the motherboard.
my apologies for not repling sooner, but i have been away this week. just like to say thanks to everyone for their replies. i have taken on board all your comments and suggestions. i can now plan what hardware i must have and find a way to achieving the connectivity that i require. regards ian
