i have a d-link dir-655 extreme router. i am on comcast 20mps service i only get 65mb on wireless. so i need help/tips on possibly improving that speed. also the router is located in the basement on the left side of the house in the back. upstairs to the far right front side i have a media player which gets a decent amount of wifi. i am wondering how can i improve the wifi speed and coverage in my house. i dont know if i should use a repeater, extender? i was suggested a repeater and locate it half way upstairs or downstairs(below the upstairs media player) or should i use another router for an extender/hotspot (i think that is what i was told). please any help and information will help a lot!!
all advice i read and give tell us that is not where it belongs unless you want speed and coverage issues. use some powerline bridge to get the router into the center of the home and it should be fine. bob
i can't put it in a middle of the house since. the cable outlet is where the router is at right now. i already thought about putting the router in the middle of the house. requires long cord from modem to router but that would seem more work with wires etc.. i just prefer if i can use another router or repeater.
why can't we relocate the router? this would be the first time that trick didn't work. bob
umm.. just re-read your first answer and i have no clue what is a powerline bridge. i was thinking you meant relocate the router like for me to use a 100ft ethernet cord from the modem to the router, placing the router in the middle of the house (which would mean staying downstairs still but just in the middle) to receive better wifi signal around the house.
may you please tell me more about powerline bridge and what you recommend how i set it up. also which powerline bridges are good?
i plug one in the basement and move the ethernet to that unit. i plug the other in a central location and the ethernet to the router. it's one of those basic things that places that sell them should be able to boil it down to 2 steps and then talk a little about the 2 phases in your ac system. i'll stop here with i've yet to find a bad unit. bob
thanks you! i will research more about them and look into getting some for my house.
