help - my flat monitor screen is now &quot;wavy&quot; whenever i scroll up and down on a page. i don't know why this started or how to end it. any suggestions?
redrover, start with connecting a good old crt in stead of the lcd to see what happens. it's an easy swap. if that's ok i suspect the monitor itself. if that's wavy either, i suspect the videocard (or the driver, but that's a rather theoretical option, i think). kees
wavy? like a narrow large s on the left and right? or it waves as you scroll, as you said? this usually means you don't have enough video power, video ram; pics and web pages should also take a bit to load all the way down. this usually happens with 2mb, maybe 4mb vram. download and use aida32 utility to check... a flat screen doesn't need more vram, so the previous idea of another monitor (crt) is good-quick. xp? w98? directx 8.1 or above?
it waves as i scroll up and down on a page. it's supposed to be smooth. i have to stop scrolling for the wave to catch up so i can read what's on the page. i have windows xp.
redrover, check drivers first .... then try to slow down the hwd acceleration. display properties -&gt; settings -&gt; advance open troubleshoot tab -&gt; slow down hwd acceleration slider is in middle of window. this happened to my main system after upgrade to geforce2 mx/mx400 video card and third monitor. the effect was only on this card and attached monitor. bill .
i formatted the drive in my sons's gateway laptop after backing up all data. after installing xp pro and office 2003 and running all updates i discovered the same wavy screen. the device manager showed the vga graphics drivers missing. the correct driver would not download to this workstation. i downloaded and transferred across the network. the file extracted. i then pointed the driver reinstall to the cab files for this download and it installed falwlessly. no more wavy screen and the device mgr shows the drivers to be intact. he also runs a second monitor (crt flat screen)and it works fine. one neat trick is if you do not want the laptop monitor on, crank up the resolution where the laptop monitor cannot perform and it will shutdown. now you can use only the crt external if need be.
i turned the slider all the way to the left and now the scrolling is perfect...thanx for the fix..mg
