i recently purchased a few brand new tdk 8x dvd+r i have a lite-on 1693s brand new 16x burner when i go to nero 6 express i was unable to selected 4x write speed. i know 8x dvds should be burnt at half the speed, but nero 6 only allow me to selected 6x speed minimum. i had no choice, so i burnt the disc anyway, but after the burn was complete, the drive was able to read it, i edject it out and load it back in, the drive makes alot of clicking noises, the dvds cannot be read. is there anyway for me to force my drive to burn at 4x? please help me, please help me i beg you please help!
the old theory about burning media at 4x speed is for reliabilty. burning at 8x transfers huge amounts of data quickly form one media to another, and can lead more often to errors in the burn process, or corruption of data. it's easier to burn data more successfully and slower at 4x, than try repeatedly and fail a few times at 8x....but things move on. if the media says 8x, and your drive has 8x...burn at 8x. just because earliest 8x media and drives weren't up to the task, doesn't mean that is always, or still, the case. the problem here doesn't appear to be the speed at all. as you successfully recorded and read the the disk at 6x, (see that old &quot;8x at 4x&quot; plan is now a myth!), the problem is something related to reading the disk after you ejected. make sure when you record disks that &quot;enable multisession&quot; is not selected (press the &quot;more&quot; button for some hidden options), and that &quot;finalize disk&quot; is on. multisession disks are those without an end point, but these tend to be written and read perfectly in the drive that made them. what is odd is that you can record, and read, but then can't read after ejecting. best to buy some re-writable dvd's and experiment, and remember not all media and drives are compatible. do a search, and see if others are having the same problem. google'd : lite-on 1693 problems (returned some that might be of use to you) good luck, geebee
for me is cd only. dvds all run at max speed as determined by nero on auto. never had a problem. even k3b in linux runs eveything on auto with no problems. the issue seems to be an xp and cd issue. that being said, you should be able to choose any speed below maximum of media. chuck
