i have a ikon tec computer that has a gigabyte ga-7vax motherboard, amd xp 2200 512 ddr memory, radeon 9000 pro 64meg video card. it just went black while playing a game and when trying to reboot the fans kick in but i get nothing on the screen. the monitor is ok no error messages just nothing. i tried a different video card and still nothing. hooked the hard drive to another computer to rescue the data and the hard drive seems fine. could it be the motherboard or the proccesor? trying to figure out were to start.
if i get a new motherboard and cpu would windows need to be reinstalled?
have you tried that in a different computer to be sure it's not that? maybe also be sre your psu hasnt gone haywire on you.
i would check the following: remove everything but the video card memory and hard drive. if still nothing i would check memory, video card. if you don't have a way to do that then reset the cmos on your motherboard. if your video card is giving you a blank screen it could also be a bent pin on the video cable. but, always have a pci video card around to dotesting and if that boots that tells you your motherboard is fine. i think memory, video card then motherboard. sometimes your power supply can be failing too but it woun't stop you from getting a picture. the 9000 ati's also require you power them up. check that too. good luck!
i had that problem twice on the same machine (compaq) in 2 years. i had 2 memory sticks so i unplugged one then the other. when i unplugged the bad memory it started right up. one time it was a nearly new memory stick i bought at staples so i can't really blame compaq for that one.
you will not have to replace winxp if you use the same hard drive. all your software will be there when you boot up. the only chore you will have to face is disassembly of the entire pc to replace the mb and processor.
if you get a new motherboard or processor windows does not have to be reinstalled only if you change the hard drive in your computer like get a new hard drive because on the information like the os and so on is on the hard drive. just changed a motherboard and a processor on a dell computer did not have to reinstall windows. make sure that the items if you do change them are the same make and speed as the old ones.
when you power the machine on do you get any beeps? normally one hears a single beep and the pc moves on showing the bios and then loading windows. if you get a series of beeps these will tell you what is wrong. normally it is eight beeps to indicate faulty graphics card. but doing a search on beep codes for you motherbaord would confirm errors relating to number of beeps. now, if you ain't getting any beeps or anything then one would tend to look at duff motherboard or powersupply. hope this helps. trev
no beeps no sound from the drives spining but there is a small light on on the motherboard that is on. i tried different power supplys and video cards memorey still the same way.the funney thing is with the motherboard pluged in the cd rom will not come out but unplug the motherboard and the cd tray will come out. i had my wife go to town to get a new motherboard and procesor and the one they sent home was all wrong could not hook a ide cabled hard drive to it, it would not take my ddr memory they now use ddr2. i wish they would quit changing the way things so fast just about have to build or a new computer as all of my one year old parts are obsolite.
i use the same mtrbd. i can only suggest you reduce the system to bare minmium, disconnect *all* drives. reboot and see what happens. if still no go, shutdown. remove cpu, and it starts to beep, then you have a bad cpu. you can also before removing cpu, take all ram out and see if it beeps. if it beeps, then bad ram or slots. if you didn't experience any bad power recently, then it died of old age and/or stressed componets. yeah, you an older mtrbd., the replacement should have eide(pata) ports instead of sata and support ddr ram(plain). there are still many a mtrbd. out there, check with  or  and/or any other online vendor. tada -----willy
i had the same problem with a gigabyte ga-8ik1100 p4 motherboard. after removing everything it still would not beep or anything. all that happened was that the cooling fans would turn on but that was about it. i took all the components out and put them in another p4 computer that i have and all components worked fine so i replaced the motherboard and all is a ok now. youll have to know also that this was the second time i replaced this gigabyte motherboard for the first one did the same thing, and i defiantly didnt replace it with another gigabyte motherboard. btw they still make plenty of motherboards to replace the one you have and use all the components you have on that board, and for the best prices surf the internet and the motherboard reviews for the best boards and deals. good luck, art
an old trick is to listen to the beeps when your computer starts. 1 short beep - normal post - system is ok 2 short beeps -
i recently received a compaq 6010 with the same problem. after some trial and error, i ordered a new asrock mainboard from newegg for about $45. it fit right in, runs great, and has a lot of upgradable features that the original didn't include. the only issue was needing a longer internal usb cable. found it on ebay at $5 total.
due to bad caps issue. try contacting them, they know about it. mine was repaired and returned but the onboard sound was not working. i added a pci sound card and felt it was a small price to pay.
try using a system boot disk or cd. if this do not work,try reinstalling your os.
resetting the bios often fixes this. near the bios chip on the mobo is a jumper.remove power,move jumper, leave for 30 seconds, must fully discharge cmos, replace jumper and good luck.
sometimes when computer boots up, it shows: &quot;harware monitor found a error, enter power setup menu for details&quot;. what is wrong with this one since you are kind knowledgable about this. one thing about this computer is sometimes it will just don't show nothing at all. i mean first when i turn on the power, the monitor shows blank. and then, i disabled the power cord, next time when i turn it on, it shows the above message. i tried to fix it by reinstall the windows xp os, but it freezes when it was copying from the cd-rom. if there is any guessing about this without the complete system specification (i don't have the computer any more), i would be appreciated if i could learn from this. thanks
have had the same thing happen,,it was the cpu,,,was an amd,,if you can borrow one and check that before you buy another motherboard,,hope you got it by now already anyway,,j.r.
yes i got it i ended up just putting in a motherboard and cpu
maybe you accidentally moved your voltage setting to 230 on your power supply. my brother has the same problem and that is the one odd thing i noticed. does this mean his computer is kaput? i have not bothered fixing it since he's not using it.
hey dude just open your cabinet and remove your cmos battery wait for 15 min. then place it back. start your computer and it will start with cmos clock error. just press f1 to enter current date and time and mention first boot device. such as hdd or cdrom. then press f10 to save and exit. you will see every thing working fine. regards robin
