hi, i have a few computers over a small business network and i was wondering is it possible to boot a computer over the network from nas or do i have to go into servers which i would like to be informed about. i am running xp but i can also run linux if needs be thankyou
to boot from a nas would mean it would have to be running some piece of software that would send out a &quot;magic packet&quot; or some such thing. nas devices tend to be rather passive. booting over the network is usually done by &quot;wake on lan&quot; (wol) through the network interface device. it's done by broadcasting the &quot;magic packet&quot; to specified mac addresses that you want to start. i don't think a nas can do that, but i could be wrong.
good post above. what you are looking for is what is called pxe(&quot;pixie&quot;)-booting. this is more than just the protocols on typically consumer nas devices. it is possible to do, but you better have a good background in it and ready to spend a good bit of money for products that aren't commonly sold in consumer applications. good luck!
would it be easier with a server and what is tha basic principal of a server as i have very little knowledge about them
they can be used to store and retrieve files. a nas does that as it's basic function. they can be used to run programs from in a server/client environment which eliminates the need to install some programs on every pc on a network that will use them. they can be used to keep databases. there are web servers, proxy servers and the list goes on. your original question was about use of a nas. these generally run services but not applications. they work well as file servers but can have some limited ability to keep databases. it sounds as if you're looking for ways to start up pcs remotely. it would not require a server to do this. it would require the remote pcs to have certain hardware capabilities. you'd broadcast a wake up signal from any pc on the network. that signal would address the pcs you wanted to turn on but it would be by hardware address or &quot;mac&quot;. remote or timed shutdown can also be accomplished. hope that helps.
u said could could run programs from servers with no installation if i understood you correctly. is there a certain function that the server has to have for this to be available or do generally most servers have this ?
you purchase network server versions of the application and client licenses to run from terminals. these client licenses are generally packaged by a specific number of remote terminals/pcs that can access the application. a company might by a server version and 50 client licenses. i don't know how popular this is anymore but was useful with networks that used &quot;dumb&quot; terminals....types without hard drives, etc. as such, you cannot buy just any piece of software and run it from any other pc on the network as a workaround to buying more copies of the application.
