sometimes when i start my computer all of my internet connections have disappeared in the network connections folder but i am still able to connect to the internet when outlook express or internet explorer brings up the connection window. if i try to create the connection it says a connection with the same name already exists, but i can't see it. restarting often brings the connections back but whenever this happens none of my computers on my lan are able to connect to the network due to no ip adress being assigned, the connections are bridged in the computrer with the dial up modem. this only started occuring when the network cards for the lan were installed. would a hub solve the problem so the computer doesn't have to manage all the network connections?
remove the router from the mix. if the trouble persists you have two components left. change the pc and you're down to one.
disregard the above.
recently whenever this has occured the ip adresses are being assigned allowing computers to connect to the network, but the internet connection is still not being shared in this case. the internet connection is still present under connections in internet properties but does not appear in network connections.
i'm having a very similar problem, except i'm using adsl. i've enabled connection bridging so that i can launch a seperate connection to dial into my office network. now, everytime i start-up my computer, it's still automatically connected, and neither one of my connection icons are available. this only happens on occasion, and normally fixes itself when i restart my computer, but i've done that 3 times already, and my icons are still not there. if anyone has a clue, please help. i can't currently get into my office network. os: ms windows xp pro sp2 modem: adsl wi fi thanks
i find that when this occurs simply restarting the computer helps. all computers on network: xp sp2 home this problem also occured when computers on my home network were running 98se, but the computer with the internet connection and that bridges the network connections was still xp sp2 home
i think i've figured out what my problem is. since i run adsl broadband, the system seems to think that my connection should always be available. however, i tend to turn off both my modem and computer at night. when i start it up again, and turn the modem on, after the initial boot, my connection icons are not available. when i restart my computer without turning the modem off... the connections are available on 2nd boot-up. but when i restart my computer, and turn my modem on and off... the icons dissapear again. so, i think i've learnt to make sure that my modem is on and ready for connections before my pc starts up
the internet connection is via an agere win modem, internal pci. so the mdem is always on at startup, and this problem can can occur from a startup or restart. also, the connection is available through internet explorer and outlook express, and internet optoins can be configured for it through internet optoins, and it also appears in the taskmanager when connected. but, it is not listed in network connections and connot be connected any other way when this happens. all other network connections are still present in this event.
