hi all, im new here; dave's the name. love the whole community thing just hope yez can help me out with this problem ive had for months lol. ok, i have a wireless router; (wgr614v4 to be exact) and i cannot connect to it at all. when i say cant connect i mean i cant login in to it to tell it my details etc.... please help. im also using a creative broadband blaster modem... could that be stopping it?? please help... it's really frustrating... lol thanks all, dave
oh and i also forgot to mention: in my manual it says the power light should always be green... but mine is orange... any ideas??? thanks, dave
exists with the router, make it a netgear problem. exercise your warranty.
hi all jim here. just spent a month trying to resolve problems with my netgear router (624 model). this is the second netgear router gone bad in less than a year. i have spent about $75.00 in service calls (1 for each router) and a month of emailing to have netgear tell me the router is bad. their warranty replacement solution is to mail back the defective router and then they will send a replacement...a 2 week time frame and i have to pay shipping; or i can pay about $20.00 to have them ship a new router before shipping mine...or pay above that to have next day shipping. i told them this was unacceptable...needless to say i will be going out this week and purchasing a link sys router.
hook up as follows isp router/modem &gt; netgear now plug everything in and turn the isp modem on first. now turn on the netgear router. in the back on the router is a reset button. push it in for ten seconds and wait for it to reset. now plug in the ethernet cable to your computer. plug the other end of the ethernet cable into a numbered port of the router, 1,2,3 or 4. login to the router.  ( this will be your login, unless you change your lan ip address. if you change it then, click start, click run click command, type ipconfig /all and look for the default gateway. this will be your new number to put in the address bar to log in.) once your in, you can either use the setup wizard or configure it yourself. ftp://downloads.netgear.com/files/wgr614v4_install_guide.pdf firmware update is found here  rick
i forgot to tell you. for security reasons, the router has its own user name and password. when prompted, enter admin for the router username and password for the router password, both in lower case letters. rick
i tried typing admin and password in as my details but it only closed the prompt box and then re-opened it signalling that my username and/or password was incorrect. any ideas on how i can get my username/password?
what router you are using and the model number. the passwords vary, depending on make and model. also please tell us what country you are in, i noticed there are different passwords for those models, also. rick
i am trying to connect a psp to the internet for my friend. i do not know what the password is for wep entry. can anyone help me to obtain the password or how i can connect to my wireless router to look at the config to obtain the wep thanks a million for any help. cheers.
as above, same issue, questions.
rick i have been trying for months and doing all i can think of to get my 'puter to recognize my router! thanks for the info...so simple! lol
try looking for the very small hole where you can stick a pen. press and hold that for 30 seconds. that is to bring back the default password and user which is what you have now. then try logging back in with it.
