im trying to upgrade my dell inspiron 546 due to lack of funds to build a new rig. i have bought graphics cards in past, but ive never bought a psu or put in a psu before, but i am sure, with guidance i could certainly do it. i want to make sure these parts will actually work with my inspiron before i buy them so thats why i am posting here today. psu:  vid card:  i know that the current graphics card i have in now is a 220 gt and its worth about 30 dollars and its pretty old along with my computer. so i dont know if this new card would even work with my mobo or anything and i also dont know if the psu would fit in my tower ( its not a slim so it should? )
i didn't find your model so you should link to your exact model.  on the page  shows a few 650 video cards so a good choice. that psu looks to be the minimum asked for (i read 450 watt minimum on the pages so far) and the full review at  has me worried about longevity of the psu. i see about 200 watts alone for the video card so if we want a 5 year machine we double the watt capability of the psu. that's a bit high at 900 so the psu is an iffy choice here. if you can get another 100 watts and keep the single rail +12v then you should be fine for years. bob
this is my computer, im not sure if this is what you wanted or not.  instead of the 430 maybe a 600w?  im just worried about the card not being compatible with my motherboard.
&quot;pci express x16 one slot supporting full-height cards&quot; so can you share what made you think it was incompatible? once in a while you see a question about pcie 1.x 2.x etc but the answer can un-nerve those that asked. bob
while the first psu choice was the minimum and should work, i winced at being too close to call. this 600 is a single rail to avoid issues with setup and should get you years of use. bob
ive had a few bad experiences upgrading video cards on a computer of mine when i was a kid, and i didnt know for sure if my motherboard had a pci express 3.0 x16 slot or if that card would fit, but thank you for your help. so in conclusion i could upgrade my inspiron successfully with these parts?  and
that is what you can check ahead of time by getting the dimensions of the card and measuring. as i don't own this machine all i can write is that it looks ok. if you want, wait for someone that will assure you further. good luck! bob
i measured and it seems the boost wont fit, but the previous one i mentioned will definitely fit in my case. thanks for all your help!
