i have an hp m7170n that is 3.5 years old. a few days ago i noticed that the fan was constantly running at high speed. after a day or so of that it started shutting itself down (power-off). the first thing i did was perform a system restore to last week when the fan was still running normally. no change. i opened a chat session with an hp tech yesterday and ended up spending 4.5 hours with him trouble-shooting. today i bought a new power supply and installed it, but still have the same problem. from the trouble-shooting yesterday the hp tech said we had eliminated the motherboard, monitor, and hard drive as the problem. i also pulled one of the two rimms during testing and that had no impact on the shut-downs. i disconnected all peripherals except the mouse, keyboard, and monitor during testing. i've tried running system recovery from dvds and from the boot screen, but the system shuts down from there, too. the hp tech had me disable all startup apps but that doesn't seem to help either. i'm looking for ideas other than buying a new pc. thanks.
another thought - i have yet to see the system shut down when i have it setting at the bios screen. i'm letting it run there now to see if it will, but it didn't yesterday and hasn't so far this evening. windows xp media edition thanks, dan
the pc just shut down from the bios screen. i think that means this is not a windows issue.
heat related. maybe while in the bios screen, you could watch the cpu temperature, if you can find the screen that shows it. continue to watch that temperature to see if it approaches 70 degrees. most systems will give a warning if the cpu is too hot but it might be off in your setup. give it a look see.
thank you very much! i'll see if i can find the temperature in bios. i guess this is my project for the today if i can find some arctic silver5 locally. from what i'm reading it looks like i need to start by blowing dust off the cpu and fan. i've never done this before. i see there is a heat dissipation structure that appears to mounted above the processor. it is a stack of thin square silver-colored metal plates with spacers between each plate. the stack is about 6 inches high. it looks like it is held down by four philips screws, one on each corner. it looks like the structure will come off if i remove the 4 screws. (i assume this structure will lift off the fan or cpu and leave the cpu in the mother board?) each of the 4 screws goes through a spring. when i replace this device will there be a torque issue with remounting the heat dissapater or can i just use my judgement when i tighten them? i can't tell for sure if there is a fan between that and the cpu. if there is, should i replace it while i'm there? assuming there's a fan on the cpu, i'm wondering if that might be going out. i noticed during trouble-shooting the last couple of days that when i power the system on the fan kind of makes a revving noise for a few seconds - kind of like starting an old car in sub-zero temperatures.
oem motherboards of well known for having &quot;bulging capacitors&quot; these will sometimes cause the system to shutdown when the cpu is throttled up, such as during a bios post check of the cpu. but it could also be heat related. i would just look at all your capacitors and check to see if any are bulging, if you don't know what the difference is check out this.  and  i remember trying to fix the schools broken dell gx270's which were plaqued by bulging capacitors. hope this helps anymore questions post bigboy73
great information. thanks! i tried to carefully go over my motherboard and check the capacitors and they all look fine to me when i compare them to the photos you sent me. today i removed the heatsink, blew out the fins and fan well with compressed air, cleaned the thermal grease off the cpu and heatsink, applied new thermal grease and re-installed the heat sink. no improvement. i pulled the heatsink and inspected the cpu and heatsink and it looked like there was not even contact across the surface of the cpu because the grease was not evenly distributed. (i had applied a thin layer of grease to the entire surface of the cpu with the edge of a credit card.) i got to looking carefully at the heatsink from all angles and it looks like the entire device is bent! the six copper pipes and aluminum fins aren't quite perpendicular to the copper base plate. if i set the heatsink on a table top and look at it from the side it looks like it is leaning slightly instead of standing straight up. scratching my head, i asked my kids if any of them had accidentally knocked the pc off of my desk in the last week. they said no and i believe them. this is a mystery to me but i'm guessing the heatsink is probably kaput at this point. now i'm trying to find a replacement and am having trouble. i bought one at best buy tonight that i thought would work but it doesn't. part of the install requires that you insert 4 posts through the mother board and secure them on the back side with nuts. however, the holes in the mother board are threaded and the posts won't slide through. they will screw in perfectly to the holes, but there no way for me to screw them in once the heatsink is assembled because the screw heads are under the fan and unreachable. so, at this point i guess i need help locating a replacement heatsink. i've searched asus and hp websites with the part number with no luck. i've sent emails to both sites asking for help and hope that i'll hear back from them. i may end up carrying the heatsink around to some local computer shops tomorrow to see if i can find one that way. thanks for your help. dan
if it's a pentium 4 than it can be socket 478(pins are on cpu) or 775(pins on motherboard), if amd than am2 has a hexacon shape to it were as 939 has a square shape heres amd 939 on top am2 on bottom  for intel here is a 478(right, notice pins on cpu) and 775(left, no pins should be on motherboard)  if you tell me what socket you have and the price range and what you use the pc for i can help find a good heatsink and fan replacement for you. hope this help any more questions post bigboy
thanks! my cpu is an intel pentium d socket 755. the pc is an hp media station m7170n that i use primarily for video editing. (adobe premiere pro; adobe after effects, adobe audition, adobe encore, and photoshop.) if by price range you mean what i'm willing to spend on a heatsink, then i think i have to spend what it takes to get my system back working - within reason. it looks like most heatsinks are under $100. thanks, dan
lots of options and prices vary...the arctic cooling freezer pro is very popular, efficient and quiet. the more exotic ...the bigger they are and the higher the $$. vapcmd
thanks! one of the heatsinks on the link you sent me looks like the exact part as the one i'm replacing. masscool 8wa741 92mm ball cpu cooler i may go with that one just to be consistent. thanks again. dan
vapcmd - i received the new masscool unit yesterday and installed it last night. my pc has been running ever since with no problems. it looks like this fixed it. i can't believe how quiet my system is now. i guess the noise level must have been increasing gradually the last couple of years so i didn't notice the increase until i had something to compare it with. i want to thank you for your help. i really appreciate it. dan
good to hear the outcome. vapcmd
