hello all, and thank you in advance for the help =). heres my system specs: -emachines t2984 -windows xp home edition -2.93 ghz and 1.5gb hard drive. -intel celeron processor my problem: i got an external hard drive and i came home one day, and tried to turn it on. the hard drive acted as though it wasnt getting power, no noise, no light, nothing. its a maxtor 120gb one touch external hard drive. so i tried to slave it on my pc. i took it out of the case, took the jumpers off completely to put it in slave mode, connected the powed and ide cables, and stuck it in an empty hard drive slot in my pc. i went to turn my pc on, the blue light on the front of the pc turns on, but nothing else in the computer does. by this i mean the inside of the computer is acting like its not on or getting no power. when i took the slaved drive out, the computer turned on and powered up like nothing. i looked all over the internet but can find anyone with a similar problem. any help is greatly appreciated, thank you very much. -bobby
the 2 connections from the psu to the mb. what happens if you disconnect the recently added drive ? were you unplugged from ac power when you added the drive ? my suggestion...rejumper both drives to cs... keep us posted. vapcmd
when i put the drive in, the computer was unplugged, i plugged it in, and the compter wouldnt power on the iside, but i knew it was getting power because the light on the front of the pc came o as if it was on. when i unplug the drive, everything works fine. let me try what u just suggested and ill post back on my results. thank you. i tried the previously mentioned advice. i set both to cs enabled....same results, i dont know if it has any relevance, but the power supply box in my pc is 350 wats. other things i tried: -i tried running just the slave drive on master mode, didnt work. -i placed the jumpers on the drive inside my pc to &quot;master with slave present&quot;. didnt work. thank you for the advice, and any further advice is as before, greatly appriciated, thank you - bobby
does anyone have any idea on how i can fix this problem, or why it might be happening. thank you -bobby
