so apple just released a bunch of new laptop upgrades, and the all new macbook air. but wait. i bought my laptop in september (white macbook) and i got a apple remote when i bought it. now, for all the laptops, including the macbook pro, you need to pay an additional 20 bucks when you are purchasing it at the apple store online. now i love macs, and it think the remote was a cool feature and partially justified the high price tag. but now they are making you pay for it? why? does anyone else notice this?
&quot;yes, you like this!&quot; in your most gruff voice. &quot;yes, you buy with that!&quot; isn't choice a good thing?
but i did like having the remote included. then again, some people never use it. i use it occasionally, but not for front row. ipod docks with speakers work nice with it though . i wish they had used the air keyboard for the new models. i think the mbp keyboard could be better. but the new trackpad feature looks good. it's not like you would use the remote while you are using the mac anyway. unless you use front row constantly... lol. -bmf
2.99!!! yes. there is justice.
to unaware customers. reminds of the day the imacs came out in august. i was in the store when they were announced, and they were still selling the other imacs for full price. at least the previous mbps seem to priced well on the apple refurb section, but then you'd have to figure out if it was an unsold model or an actual refurb. not much justice there for some people. *sigh*, this is a repeat of the last refresh for me... i got my original mbp a month before the santa rosa models came out, and then it was replaced with the said model a month before this penryn upgrade... ironic isn't it? ah, but that's how it always is with apple. guess i should get used to it . -bmf
i think choice is a good thing, r. proffitt. but the prices didnt change. sure you get more, but its because of technological advancements. i think if you dont want it the macbook should start at 1079 so you dont waste your money. but whatever. o and yes the mbp need new keyboards. i think it be nice if the macbook had illuminated keys, but the mbp is the only mac that doesnt use the new keyboard.
seems to smack of some gazpacho creed as noted above. next thing you find is they'll want a credit card number when you buy an iphone. bob
that sounds vaguely familiar, but i can't place it . you could say that the remote was part of that $750 upgrade to 4gb of ram when the remote was included in the price. now it's $400, and they offer the remote for a separate $20. better deal right? -bmf
omg apple should include the remote. i mean you are already paying higher prices then for a normal pc with the same stats, and apple had to go to all the trouble as to remove a tiny remote. just include it already. its 20 bucks how much money does apple need. i mean, i dont care as much about how much it is to add on, it could be 1 dollar for all i care. the principal is that you have to buy it separately. and why is it included with the imacs then. well whatever, but yes the 400 dollar 4 gig a ram is nice. 850 had no chance of selling. fyi amazon sells four gigs of memory for the macbook for 113 bucks
this sounds like we just need to skip 2 latte's?
ok so you can get the remote for 3 bucks. but still, apples big qoute is &quot;ready to use right out of the box.&quot; i mean, is throwing a tiny little remote in the package that big of a loss for apple. it just annoys me that they cut it out, cause i thought that was something nice that apple did that a lot of pc companies dont include.
this is a long standing issue such as whether all the cables should come in some box in spite that not everyone needs them. -&gt; isn't this an unjust tax on the rest of us?
you don't need the remote if you don't plan on using it. if you do, $20 is not a lot to shell out for when you are buying apple products. and then, look at the things apple has cut prices on: notebook ram, hd costs, and of course, the notebook models themselves. it is indeed quite fair. -bmf
i'm betting most people wouldn't use it, because front row is somewhat of a joke when it comes to genuine htpc-style use... so it's perhaps used as a 'look how cool this is' feature for the first two months and then cast aside by most. there is also a design issue as well, in that it's almost shaped like an expresscard remote but isn't. (you can now get apple remote clones which fit into the expresscard slot) the remotes of my xps m's click into the card slot so it's just the thing to take away along with the notebook so i can enjoy vista media center on the move. so with the apple remotes, you kind of have to find a place to put it which isn't on the notebook and that's kind of inelegant. the remote is not what i thought was janky. it is kind of superfluous, although given apple's mumblings towards 'digital hub' i guess a media remote wouldn't be too much to ask. however since their htpc attempt isn't a serious offering, i guess it *is* too much to ask. but i digress. the omission of the remote isn't janky. the ethernet dongle for the air? now that's janky.
i know you dont need the remote, and that not everyone uses it. but i mean come on all im saying is that it was dumb for apple to do. apple products, as i mentioned before, are more pricey, and i know the price of all the hd and memory came down. but technology advances and therefore prices must come down, the macbook upgrades have been the same price for over 9 months, so the price drop is nice. but still, why did apple take it out. they used to have it, so why did the suddenly drop it out. and ok you must agree with me on this. it would have been nicer if apple hadnt dropped it. even if you dont ever use it, there must be some time when you have felt like you just wanted the remote. if you dont, just put it away somewhere, but still you have to admit it would be nicer for apple to include it in the box. *though i do think there are more useful things they could give u. i think they should have gave you a bluetooth mouse in the remotes place. that be nice.
yeah i think the air is cool, but come on. at least give us ethernet. i could survive with out the disk drive, but no ethernet and only 1 usb. apple just squeeze another port on the other side.
i hardly ever use my remote... and not for front row. god that application is an embarassment to anything that is a frontend. i use it for itunes... occasionally.
the macbook hair is an overpriced joke.
notice that front row and the apple tv interface are very similar in some ways. the tv has yet to kick off, but it may when apple includes more features. the same with front row. however, i liked the front row interface in tiger better than the new leopard version. plus, itunes does not open when you play music and videos, so if you exit, the media stops playing, but that's probably because front row is its own app now, and not an add-on kind of feature. -bmf
true it's expensive and for today's standards, it is viewed as under-powered. but, i am beginning to like this idea. it isn't supposed to powerful, it's supposed to be mobile. throw that together with one of the best operating systems and all the necessary applications for editing and whatnot, and it's a great tool to have. the market the air is aimed at is relatively small, but that hasn't affected the strong sales. today, most people see any computer with under 2.0ghz as a terrible machine, but the clock speed does not completely define the computer. compared to its competition, the air is more powerful even if it only has &quot;1.6 or 1.8ghz&quot;. if unsupported power macs clocking in at around 400mhz can run leopard at a somewhat normal speed, than this thing is even more powerful. i think you have to give apple some credit for putting this together. the air isn't supposed to have all of the other features that the rest of the mac family has. and, it's not supposed to be a primary machine for most people, but i'm sure that you could make it one . -bmf
leopard's requirements are a g4 867mhz.
several people around the net have reported success with installing leopard on many, many unsupported macs, meaning they have g4 (or g3) cpus clocking under the 867mhz mark. some people have managed to install it on their powerbook g3s (pismos with g4 upgrades), which is pretty good for an eight/nine-year-old notebook. i was just pointing out that if far older technology can run the same system as the air at a reasonable speed and usability, than the air should have no trouble whatsoever for basic tasks. the air has a lot of potential. in time, users looking for a ssd will be able to get it cheaper. firewire might be added to its small array of ports. apple did patent something like that for more ports awhile ago... the air is only on its first generation, so there's a lot of room for improvement. just give it time. the first ipods were mac-only and did not work very well as i recall. the latest ipods support windows and run very smoothly. just wait . -bmf
