has anyone ever tryed magic jack telephone on a pc?? does it work and how well????? michael
he gave up on it after a short time. he thought he could save a few bucks on ld so bought their pitch from tv. he said sometimes it would take 2 or 3 minutes before he could even call out. not good for 911 calls. they tried 3 different phones. he also said the line was noisy most of the time. he has comcast 16/2 internet with an snr of 38.4 so it sure wasn't his connection. he pulled the unit out and tossed it in the trash. this is just one case, but it sure kept me from getting a &quot;magic jack&quot;
hi. i got one. easy to install and it works! i`m the sceptics sceptic and i thought `no way dude`. my only issue is due to the fact that i live in canada. they give you a list of area codes, choose your # and thats it. i was told that soon, canadian area codes will be available. now for the hardest part; cutting my land line! plus, i just call forward to my cell. damn thing really works. go figure?
don't use it as your primary phone services or you might be sorry. you could probably still save money if you do lots of casual toll or long distance calling.
i guess i got lucky with mine. i have it hooked up to my touchsmart pc. in the kitchen.
i have a friend who calls me across the country on one. he actually purchased five of them!(all for his home). he swears by the things but i often have trouble deciphering what he is saying when he talks, it is an odd type of distortion that i do not know how to describe. kind of sounds as if the sound waves are passing through water at times. other times, it works nearly flawlessly but i would not use it as a primary telephone service.
i have one for a while allready it works goood for me. the only problem i see is yhat you have to keep you computer running all the time if you want your house phone working, otherwise transfer the calls to your cell phone. i think it is a good deal for the money you pay for it. it will be a good idea if they get it to work off the omputer, direct to the internet line like vonage is doing, that way you don't have to keep your computer running if you are no using it.
i've had one for about 6 months and it works great, no complaints whatsoever. reception has been very clear but it does seem to work better with some phones than others. i have the highest speed cable modem which might help. using on a vista hp laptop. again, on some phones, entering data from the phone, e.g., a credit card number, can be unreliable. seems to work better with a 2.4 mghz phone than a 5.8. it was worth the money, that's for sure. it's paid for itself in long distance calls many times over.
sure do and it works great! have had mine about a year love it, it doesn't work to good if you use you're pc while on the phone, highly recomend it to everyone who does't want to pay long distance bills
i've had mine for about six months now. never had a problem with it. everyone i talk to on it says the sound quality is excellent. from what i can gather from the complaints people have, i've come to (2) conclusions: either they are using lousy phones, or have lousy internet service. i use a wired phone on mine. have toyed with the idea of using a wireless but haven't gotten around to it yet. my internet service is excellent. so there you are, the (2) variables. let me say this. i'm paying $16 dollars a month for local phone service from at&t. they then charged me $10 a month for (2) hours of long distance service every month, whether i used (2) hours or not (which i don't). so i dropped the long distance service from at&t and use the magic jack for long distance service only. since i paid $30 for the magic jack on e-bay and i've had the thing for (6) months, i'm already money ahead. would i use it as my primary phone, never. but for long distance service, it's a winner.
i ordered one. it arrived in a few days. install was easy although instructions were virtually non existent. it works good, as good as or better than much pricier voip products i have used in the past. one word of caution: you apparently need pretty good bandwidth. if i am down loading a large file while speaking on the phone on occasion i loose my phone connection. all and all i am very pleased. in my opinion it is a real bargain.
hi, here is my magicjack experience. i've had it for about 6 months. i'm pretty happy with it. you do have to factor in the cost... you do get what you pay for. the sound quality, customer service, and reliability are not as good as a land line. but for me it's good enough.. i just cancelled my land line a few weeks ago (i do have a cell phone too). calls sound good most of the time. i had an old laptop lying around so i made that my 'magicjack' computer. i can leave it on and it doesn't use much power. i did read something about it cutting off your calls after an hour (then you have to call the person back again). but overall i'm satisfied.
bought one - been as happy as can be with it.. just like a true landline - just don't reboot your computer while on the phone.
it was hit and miss for me. worked sometimes, not others. xp or vista didn't seem to matter. sound quality was hit and miss, too. a few months into service, the voicemail stopped working. if i didn't answer, the caller would get a voice that said &quot;goodbye&quot;... click! they never did get it working. when it came time to re-up for another year, i trashed it.
i tried it and just sent it back. i think it would have worked very well, but for my type of connection, wireless @ 2 meg down and 450 k upload. my signal bounces off of a neighbor's grain bin and then is sent on to the city, 8 miles away. it dialed numbers correctly and they answered, but could not hear me and all i heard was them cutting in and out rapidly. i really wanted it to work but it didn't. their tech support worked with me for a good 45 minutes before giving up. as soon as i plugged it into the usb port, it immediately set itself up correctly without any help from me. i was told if i used a cordless phone, it had to be 6 feet away from the computer, and the dongle had to be plugged directly into the pc, and not a hub. good luck.
it's great .. easy to install .. easy to use .. i'm happy with it!
like so many other things, my experience is much less than what is advertised. voice quality is inconsistent, sometimes good - sometimes terrible; never excellent. voice mail sometimes just does not work. have spent total of a few hours with tech support trying to make service consistent. finally they just offered me a refund, which i declined because i need the phone for the occasions that i will be on the phone for an extended period of time (calls to public utilities, etc.). i have since purchased a second magicjack so friends in another state can call me as though i were still local to them. (magicjack is regularly adding service in new areas) if you have reliable cell phone service or wired home phone, magicjack can be a suitable auxiliary, special use phone, but not reliable enough for one's primary phone. in summation, while the unique service is worth $20/year to me as an auxiliary phone it, unfortunately, does not replace a reliable home phone.
i have had magicjack for 2 years now and love it !!! it has a local area code and call forwarding,voicemail,threeway,caller id and free 411 it also has many many more features and i got mine for 59.95 for 5 years !! i bought 3 for my use,1 for home and 1 for my office and 1 for my daughter's room,fax machines work great also with magicjack and each magic jack has there own phone number!!!i have cable internet and leave my computer online all the time in sleep mode,you only need a live internet for this to work,it will not work with dial-up service! i have had no trouble at all with this magicjack and ordered 1 for my sister and she instantly disconnected her at&t phone service,she loves it!it also updates when newer magicjack services are put out for the magicjack..any more questions email me at sassybratty40@gmail.com.
... but you get what you pay for. sound quality isn't great but voices are perfectly understandable. i connected mine and it immediately trashed my sound drivers. i uninstalled and reinstalled the drivers with the magic jack dongle connected to my pc and haven't had a problem since. aside from that hassle, no complaints here.
have had a magic jack since it first appeared on the market,have bought some for friends as gifts.what could be better than a 20 dollar a year phone bill,for those spending hundreds and more on other services.a good internet connection is essential,the service has improved steadily since it started.you have a choice of using a phone,many different types,and as another user said,some phones work better than others, or you can use a headset and mike setup if you prefer.really simple to set up and many features come with it.perhaps some people are put off when they see the name &quot;magic jack&quot;, but this little device does provide some technical magic,mine works great and you have a 30 day period to return it if you don't like the way it performs.
the best $40 i ever spent. tomorrow i am calling att and discontinuing my land line. i have made over 80 hours of long distance calls to my brothers in tx in the first month i've had it. i have also reconnected to many friends and family members now that i can call & talk for 'free'. the sound quality is quite good, there is no difference in performance when compared to land lines. what with my wife and i both having cell phones, even if 'roadrunner' goes down we still have phone access. that is the only drawback to it. the computer has to be on for the phone to work. i am in the process of rehabing an old computer with a 1 gig hard drive to dedicate to my magic jack, and network it, so i can shut down my main computer.
yes, i just ordered one and the instillation was easy and we use it for all our long distance, we have even caller id and voice mail too
have mine for almost a year has paid for it self many times over at first i could not get it to work but then found out it was the phone i was using switched phones have had no problems except sometimes a hum but thats because i'm using a cheap phone and the closer i am to computer it goes away love it
yes magic jack works great been using it for over a year now .we are full time rver's and when we dont have a cell phone signal and have a wifi signal we use magicjack .and we use it 6 months parked for the winter in az.
i love magicjack. now i love it even more that i got the caller id to work on my phone by getting a fixer from
magicjack works. the only problem is phone. i purchased panasonic 5.8ghz (noise reduction).
i have used the magicjack for a year & just renewed it for 5 years. it's performance depends a lot on the quality of your isp. you must have dsl or another kind of high speed connection. you must leave your computer on to receive calls. when your computer automatically updates & reboots itself, you may get an error msg saying &quot;broken storage&quot;. this will require you to reformat the drive that mj is on. when you do this, you lose your stored contact list. other than these glitches, it works very well & has saved me lots of money.
i got one a month ago. it actually does wonders for me, whos used to cards for calling overseas. although, its pretty sensitive to the internet connection. often times, the audio quality is poor. it is definitely a money saver. i can call anytime, and it is very efficient.
works great for me. i have used it going on 2 years. you must have a good broadband service if your picky about sound quality. i no longer have a land line. you must set up udp ports 5060 an 5070 on your firewall for good flow thru or the sound will be choppy. i like it that my phone number is no longer listed, cuts down on sales calls. forwards all voice mails to your email inbox. i use multiple (5) uniden dect 6 phone system with mine and it works great. it has caller id and you can forward your calls to your cell phone or any phone you want to. free conference calling! call any where in the us or canada!
