i installed a wireless printserver with my epson printer which connects through my wireless router. the print server has to be connected via the wireless router and the 10/100 connection. the pc, wireless router and printer are all located upstairs in my office. this works fine. i can print from my wireless laptop downstairs to my printer upstairs. my question is - can i connect another stand alone wireless printserver to my printer downstairs without connecting via the 10/100(which is upstairs)to access a wireless printer downstairs. another words a stand alone printer server(802.11g) that will work with the downstairs printer????? mike
...that i completely understand your situation, so please confirm the following summary: upstairs: wireless router --- wired print server --- printer1 you want to connect the downstairs printer to wireless router: wireless router ~ ~ ~ wireless-g print server --- printer2 key: --- wired ~ ~ ~ wireless answer: you can connect multiple print servers (wired and/or wireless) to a typical wireless router. you just need to ensure that the wireless print server is compatible with your printer, compatible with your wireless router, and is in range of the wireless router.
you got the situation correct. i am currently using a linksys wireless routher, a linksys wireless printer server with the upstairs printer, and a epson printer. the system works great. i just want to expand my capabilitie to the downstars printer. i have a epson r300 down. how would i hook this up? would i use another linksys print server hooked to the epson r300 as a stand alone print server? mike thanks
yes you have the situation correct. so, if i buy another wireless print server (linksys wireless print server)like the one i already have (802.11g) and connect to a compatable printer (epson r300) or (hp 5440) i can print wireless downstairs from my wireless network upstairs as a stand alone? thanks for the advise. mike
when you connect a printer to a network, the printer becomes a network resource, available for use by the computers on the network. it doesn't matter whether you connect the printer via wired or wireless print server.
thanks, i am going to buy another print server and see if i can connect my epson downstairs wireless as a stand alone. i'm not sure how to do this? i suppose i can call linksys for tech support??
take a deep breath and smile. one thing you can do is download and read the quick install instructions for the particular wireless print server you are considering. i'm not necessarily recommending this brand or particular model, but you might benefit from taking a look at its ''quick install'' manual to give you an idea about the level of difficulty involved. a linksys wireless-g print server there are also less expensive models from other companies that may work with your equipment.
thanks, i am already running a linksys printserver with my system upstair. i print to the upstairs printer from my laptop downstarirs. i guess where i am still confused is, if i hook another linksys ps to my downstairs printer, it will be a total stand alone. can i then print through my wireless links router from the up stairs setup with my wireless laptop? i don't think linksys make that very clear in the install instructions.
that is the general idea with any print server. if you can connect a print server to a router, then any printer you connect to the print server will be available for any computer that is also connected to the router. the router doesn't care how you connect a print server to it--you can use a network cable or a wireless signal. the wireless signal performs the same function as a network cable. wired print server: wireless router --- print server --- printer wireless print server: wireless router ~ ~ ~ wireless print server --- printer key: --- network cable ~ ~ ~ wireless signal there are two ways to use a wireless print server. infrastructure mode connects the wireless print server to the wireless router via wireless signal. ad-hoc mode connects the wireless print server directly to the wireless network adapter of a computer (also via wireless signal). you can set it up either way. infrastructure mode is represented in the above diagrams. if you want more information on that linksys wireless print server, just click on ''user guide'' in the link i provided earlier.
the cable between the print servers and the printers is a usb or parallel cable and not a network cable as indicated in the key.
