hp personal media drive model no. hd7500s hp hdx18t cto laptop 4gb ddr2 ram 119 gb ssd hard drive c: 465 gb analog hard drive d: usb2 ports when using my &quot;back up&quot; drive command my laptop does not recognize my hp personal media drive. it offers me to back up to my d: drive which is alrealy almost filled up with movies.....and a e: drive which is my dvd player .... my hp personal media drive is simply not recognized on a drive even under the windows explorer which recognizes my devices. ...should i check my ports? they do work with my wireless platronic headphones and targus chill mat both is which use the other usb ports. what am i doing wrong.. even my easeus todo back up program does not recognize the hp personal media drive.
ask your friends to test that drive. if it's out of warranty you should replace it. bob
bob, yes, it is about 4 years old and out of warranty...seems a crying shame since i never got to back up anything on it. i spent alot of money for nothing. i will take it into best buy geek squad and if they do mechnical tests on it and find it is truly damaged i will just buy another external hard drive this time an ssd if they sell ssd external hard drives with large capacity...in the meantime, i have to find a way to unload large sections of my ssd c: drive it is now down to 6.82 gb free of a 119 gb capacity.... i do wonder if my windows 7 32 bit operating system is to blame for any of this..????
and 4 years is a very long time for an external. sounds like it did well. by the way, if it's like all other externals it's a drive in a case and a cable. three parts. you can replace the part that failed. for me i carry a cable in my recovery kit that i can test the drive with. here it is.  i do that so often i don't give it much thought. why would you consider ssd for an external? sounds pricey and for now, still don't trust that media. bob
bob, i was told the solid state drives are much much harder to ruin than the standard drive.that is why i want one. for storage. i have ruined so many standard hard drives i got sick of them. so far the solid states is doing very well... do you have a different opinion about them ??
if you use your old ext. hds as in frequent in/out use of storage it may succumb to the same hassles of failure. if on the other hand, you simply store data it may work out ok. also, if older hds were handled wrongly or got roughed-up then that too is why older hd tend to fail. while ssd may provide use in that situation, look-up the &quot;trim cmd.&quot; to see why ssd can fail. also, the same proper handling and placement of ext. hd still apply. review all the horror stories and see why externals fail by the cat(pets), kids, falls, storms or long use even. tada -----willy
don't take my word on it. read from  so let's get this straight. you want a single device to store files on that does not fail. i want that. bob
yes.. i want a single device that stores files and will not fail. are all these 3 terrabyte western digital my book essential usb 3.0/2.0 external hard drives that best buy sells... my only practical choice ? thanks for your input....
if the message is not getting across, let me know. i rarely cross the threshold at best buy. i go there to &quot;showroom.&quot; if you don't know what that is, read  you did get many years out of the first drive and it appears you don't want to see if the hdd, case or cable failed. that's ok but i have found too many good drives inside a broke case. bob
bob, i will check these things trust me i will. thanks for all your help.. i will close this topic now...
