i came home from a business trip yesterday and my laptop (ibm thinkpad w/windows xp)won't connect to the internet. i have a wireless network set up (d-link), with a hard-connected pc and my son's gateway laptop. everything was working fine when i left, and my laptop worked fine at the hotels and airport yesterday. now it won't connect, although the pc and my son's laptop are having no problems. i paid for the airport wireless connection yesterday - could that have reset or screwed something up in my settings? i've tried everything i can think of and am at my wit's end. on the task bar, it says i have an excellent connection, but when i open the wireless networks, it says &quot;not connected&quot;. i've tried the windows &quot;repair&quot; button, but it says it can't connect. any suggestions greatly appreciated!!! --deborah
hello, there are a number of things to try 1 - disable and re-enble your wireless network card 2- some laptops have a manual turn on/off wireless 3- on the keyboard there maybe a symbol for the wifi, press it and see 4- check to see if you are getting a valid ip address, if it anything like 169.254.xx.xx then this is a self assigned ip address, you need to look at your browser settings 5- also check your router settings
thanks for your reply. when i go into ibm access connections/connection status, it says &quot;ip adress not assigned&quot;. shouldn't there be one there and if so, how do i get it? also under diagnostic tools, the ip address shows as 0.0.0.0. i am obviously not an expert on this . just enough knowledge to be dangerous.
the profile i'm using is set to obtain an ip address automatically...
try going to start&gt;connect to&gt;... or control panel and then network connections and view your wireless adapter, right click on it and go to properties. on the tab at the top, click the ine that says &quot;wireless networks&quot; and check the box that says &quot;use windows...&quot; if there is a native router on it click on it to select and this should at least help you connect. if that doesnt work then using a thumb drive you can copy the network settings from the wireless laptop that works and then using it on your laptop. hope this helps
problem fixed! yay!! for whatever reason, windows had decided to &quot;forget&quot; my wep key (even though i had already tried once going in and reentering it). anyway, problem solved.
