well, it was bound to happen sometime... about 5 months ago, my dvd-rom was incapable of reading dvds for a short period of time, just as i was trying to show something to someone, but it was apparently just 1 dvd that it had a problem with, and no others. however, now, first, it couldn't read dvd+rs (which it formerly could), then it could no longer read anything... cds or dvds. and thats where i am stuck now. my drive is a mt1316b bdv212b (or so the drivers say) however i know its a 8x, or it was when i bought it many many years ago (bdv tells me it should be a 12x.... go figure). anyways, what i mainly wonder is that my friend has a cd/dvd drive cleaner, and it would be great if i could test it out, however my drive is currently incapable of even detecting whether the disk in the drive is a dvd or a cd, and wont allow me to run the program to have it access track 3, where the brushes on the cd are... question 1: is there a program i could use to make the drive spin up and move the lazer around to possibly clean it? question 2: is thereany other suggestions someone might have for possible fixes? or any possible answers as to why this happened? i've always used the drive lightly...
question 1: is there a program i could use to make the drive spin up and move the lazer around to possibly clean it? there are cleaner kits that you reach in and swap the lens. question 2: is thereany other suggestions someone might have for possible fixes? or any possible answers as to why this happened? i've always used the drive lightly... i replace the drive since it's a commodity item and repair of those drives are not possible. no vendor schematics, no spare parts and tech time exceeds the cost of a drive every time. some want to fix the drive, but its best to let them figure out that such isn't going to happen. usually they rack up phone bills greater than the cost of the new drive before it sinks in. i hope this reply will hurry your epiphany. your story is typical with some dvd type being hard to read and then it degrades further. the laser loses power and soon nothing works. try a cd lens cleaner, new firmware and then change the drive. bob
.
thanks for the info, but as usual, i'm looking away from spendng a single penny on this, and really dont have the money to replace the drive. ok, well i lied, i have the money currently but... dont wanna spend it on a dvd rom drive.... 16x dvd-rom that reads all formats: ~$40-45. 4x/2x/8x dvd+/-r drive that can make 1.4gb cds - $106 .... it dont seem worth buying the dvd rom... will save up for the dvd writer...
the cd lens cleaner thing (or swab) is the usual. i've resurrected 1 drive by finding latest firmware. but with such a low success rate, i wonder if it should be on &quot;the list.&quot; the cost of having &quot;tech&quot; update the firmware on a dvd-rom exceeds what you can buy a dvd+/-r/w in just a few weeks. bob
i use a cd cleaning disk which will play an animated cartoon while cleaning. that means its cleaning and reading the cartoon and supposely gives a &quot;thumbs-up&quot; in being readable. its by alstop or allsop makers. the price is less than $8us and available in most stores. as for the cds themselves, use a cleaner for them as well. greasy or sticky fingers can play havoc overtime so its worth it to get a device that cleans disks. plus a can of air to blow out any dust as well. *note* cd drives no matter what type will fail sooner or later, but a quality drive tends to last longer. also, users using a dvd drive to read plain cds may find getting/replacing a std. cd drive(read only) so when it fails the cost is cheaper to replace plus you keep the more expensive dvd or cd/rw drives for those tasks alone. that's my 2-cents -----willy
