ok, i have a western digital 80 gb hard drive. i have it hooked up as a slave right now and am attempting to format the drive with partition magic. i can read from and write to the drive just fine in winxp pro, though windows says it only has about 36 gb (i previously had a partition on the drive splitting it in half, so i'm guessing that is where this is coming from, but it no longer shows any partitions, just the one small drive). partition magic shows the drive as &quot;bad&quot; and produces an error when attempting to format (bad parameter/argument). pm also reports that the drive has a bad mbr (master boot record). in windows i can format to ntfs just fine, but nothing changes in pm. i want my other 40gigs back and to partition the drive again. is there any software or special jumper setting that can get it right?
why not use disk management in xp to delete the existing partition and create a new one using the entire 80gb? i suspect you format the drive into fat32 earlier which may be why it only shows 32gb as xp cannot format a volume larger than 32gb into fat32. if you use ntfs then it can format all the 80gb in one partition. tell us what disk management reveals. it should show the balance of the hdd as unallocated space?
for reasons i won't go into-my workplace had a wd 1200jd (?) 8mb buffer drive they wanted converted back to fat23 from ntfs,(grrr) it resisted several efforts but what finally worked was to get a w98se boot disk, (bootdisk.com) make the disk, and also find and put on the disk &quot;delpart&quot;, so that once i booted with the floppy-( the wd i was working on connected as only hd-primary master) i could type delpart at the a:\ prompt,( the usual message from the boot disk about there being no drive present)then rebooted, floppy again- then fdisk, make whole drive primary and active, even though the w98 fdisk lists the total space incorrectly,then rebooted with floppy again and formatted-took ages, but it's what finally worked-then put it as primary slave in a computer with xppro which we have left as fat32, xppro sees complete drive, then used partition magic 9 to gradually break into 30ish partitions -one at a time-reboot each time.. and it finally worked all the way thru-now i can,if need be, make any of them into ntfs, or not// whatever they decide....i may have been able to leave out a reboot here and there-but this had made me so crazy i decided to go for the smallest verifiable steps and reboot..
