i have a belkin n+ v2. i have noticed that in xfire and aim, i get logged off and it says reconnecting in ..... i've come to realize that my router is disconnecting me from the internet for a split second, because it happens alot like once every ten minutes, but i have never fully lost connection from the internet. this is really annoying. is my unit defective? have i diagnosed my problem wrong? i really need help. this router is only 6 months old. thanks in advance.
i can't tell if you are using the forum's advised setup. after that, set the router to 802.11g mode. bob
im wired..btw not wirelss
since the default could be wifi enabled with wep for security, i'd follow the forum sticky for setup even if you are wired. if you don't need wifi, disable it in the router. in closing, if you are running torrents, drops are a sign. bob
i am having the exact same problem with the same router. no matter what security setup i have played with, i haven't been able to make it stop disconnecting me. this wasn't too big of an issue until i hooked up my new ps3. it drops connection about every other match. i have been debating just buying a new router even though i can't afford it. i've been looking for a solution for about 6 months now and still havent found one. i'm even up to date on the firmware.
as such i can't comment. try the forum preferred settings.
yea this is really annoying... what are these &quot;prefered settings&quot;....i see a bunch of random posts in the stickied topics.
it's a shame members don't post the settings. we love to take potshots at hiding the ssid (causes drops) or security that breaks in 120 or less seconds. bob
i am not using wireless, i dont care about my ssid, i dont care about wireless security because wireless is off. i am on a wired connection.......geez
but i did read your post. here it is -&gt; i am having the exact same problem with the same router. no matter what security setup i have played with, i haven't been able to make it stop disconnecting me. this wasn't too big of an issue until i hooked up my new ps3. it drops connection about every other match. i have been debating just buying a new router even though i can't afford it. i've been looking for a solution for about 6 months now and still havent found one. i'm even up to date on the firmware. not a word about wired, wifi or settings. no make, model, firmware version. the forum sticky does cover the firmware issue but without the details you may only get &quot;check the forum sticky.&quot; bob
here are all the settings and information.... [img]  [/img] is that enough information...?? i dont know if knowing my mac address is bad or not so i blacked them out
but this is your discussion and someone jumped in the middle. looking at your settings you claim wifi is off but your screen shot shows it is on with no security. this is not what we suggest since it will lead to troubles. the firmware version is current so all that leaves us for common drops is the wifi and torrent use. bob
sorry..that was an old pic. i just checked now and the wireless is off...i do not torrent so that can not be it.
let's get rid of another issue. power and heat. i've found routers and dsl modems buried under books cooking away. also we are never sure of the power so put it on some ups. the dsl modem can be the failure point which i used to loan out my old but stable modem to sniff that out. sorry about the person jumping into your discussion and me missing that you came back. at this point it's something of a mystery what it is. ok. no torrents. then again we had that member the swore up and down no torrents. just limewire. ouch, bob
when the forum bottoms out like that. reply to your top post.
it is plugged into a power surge protector and has open air around it. i have another wireless router that my friend let me test my modem with and it never timed out. i tested it for 24 hours.
now replace what you found to have a defect.
