from dong ngo's review (november 7, 2008): &quot;if you plan to have a wireless network in a neighborhood that doesn't already have too many wireless signals, we would recommend the belkin n+ over any other wireless-n routers.&quot;  but... how can you know how many wireless signals are in the neighborhood? and how many are too many? janet
never heard of that reasoning. you can look for wireless networks with you pc's wireless adapter. turn it on and it should show you the wireless networks in range. if you can find the reviewer's email address, ask him.
i don't think i have a wireless adapter. don't you get them when you buy the router? anyway, a friend said that he hides his wireless network. if you search for networks around you, does it count the hidden ones?
not what we write to do in our forum sticky. we found it causes network drop outs but who are we to give out advice that could stop owners from calling in hired help? that is, please try it our way. there is no added security by hiding the ssid. it's in each packet that's sent out so newer software will show the hidden ones. only those that stuck with what windows uses will call it more secure. you can used wired now, wireless cards can be added later. bob
is there a known issue with the belkin n+ router and too many networks in the neighborhood. i live in an apartment building and my laptop can easily pick up 10-15 wireless networks. i recently installed a belkin n+ router. i am using an hp pavillion notebook running windows vista. if the laptop is fairly close to the belkin router, i get fairly quick webpage downloads. if i move the laptop to a different room, maybe 30-40 feet away from the router, i have very slow connection and frequent network drops. i have already tried changing channels. i am beginning to wonder if i purchased the wrong router. any thoughts? thanks
i was having the same problem with my belkin n+ router and comcast service (rca thomson modem). i had the comcast guys come and check the internet signal, which was strong and uninterrupted. i took the usual steps (power cycling the modem and router, changing wireless channels, resetting modem to factory defaults, etc.) to no avail. i have seen rumblings around the internet about problems with this router. there is no new firmware upgrade to address these issues. it's a shame because i was getting great speed and throughput on the router before these problems arose. i ended up returning the router and getting a linksys n router - that seemed to solve my problems.
we have this router in our house, connected to comcast, with a good 6-10 wireless routers in surrounding houses. for a little while the router worked alright, but it's digressed to the point where its un-usable on most of my laptops unless you're within 5 feet of the unit. when i try to load a page from the next room (10-15 feet away) the signal slowly fades from 160+mbps, with strong signal strength, down to 11, then disconnects from the network completely, even with a full strength signal. the page times out, after which i can re-connect to the network at full strength and repeat the whole frustrating ordeal again... sigh. interestingly, my netbook connects fine throughout the house. not sure how that works out... im going to give this to one of my friends and get a netgear or linksys. this unit has caused me endless hours of frustration.
i am also having this issue but it may not be totally the router's fault. this problem occurs with my dell studio 15 laptop running win7 home premium which i purchased early this year. but i don't have this problem with my 4 year old lenovo thinkpad t61 laptop running winxp sp3. so that tells me that there is a compatibility issue between the internal wireless adapter in the dell and the belkin. i did try to muck around with the advanced wireless card settings in the dell but i had to be careful as i am not a networking expert and was afraid of making the problem worse. i was hoping to find a posting somewhere that specified some settings that could be changed to fix this problem but my broader searches on this issue seems to point to a firmware problem.
