hi there, i've installed the software for scanner but i'm having problems with the hardware. i plugged it in an available usb port and got the following message. ''usb device not recognized. one of the usb devices attached to this computer has malfunctioned and windows does not recognize it. try again.....'' i tried the other port but nothing happened at all with that one. i uninstalled software, reinstalled and used the other port first, till wouldn't work. i can't install the scanner using hardware wizard cos the brand name isn't in the list (even when showing all names.) the scanner is a mustek 1200 ub plus. i have the system requirements it asks for, winxp etc. would someone be able to help me please?? thanks in advance, kiai xx
here's why. while the issue is usually the pc, not a word was shared about it's make or model. even less about who installed the os and if it has all the drivers from it's maker installed. cheers, bob
ok, cheers bob, now you're asking something. all this stuff about operating systems and the like....lol....don't know the make and model (doh!! don't know how to find out either) but my brother installed the os and yes all the drivers from it's maker are installed. (well all the ones i got with the computer.) i'm a beginner when with computers but i'm learning all the time (there's so much to learn though) i appreciate the time you took to answer. you were that quick you must have been sitting waiting for my question.....lol....... thanks again, kiai xx
everytime a member make a new post, these words appear in red! &quot;note: if you're asking for technical help, please be sure to include all your system info, including operating system, model number, and any other specifics related to the problem.&quot; -&gt; but you did reveal a clue about which was &quot;all the ones i got with the computer.&quot; why is that a clue? because any driver that came with a machine can be far out of date. in closing, i see you neglected both my hints and the forum note about supplying make and model. this is a rough way to start digging into your issue. for now, head to  and read the usual about why usb doesn't work for many. bob
thanks again bob and sorry, you're very kind. kiai xx
hello again, i've accidentally found the make of my computer (and model number as well i think) i was looking for something else and went into system from control panel. this is what it said: system. microsoft windows xp professional. version 2002. sp2. computer. amd athlon(tm)xp 2600+ 1.25ghz 256 mb of ram. sounds pretty impressive to me, (how sad am i?? lol.) is it any help though?? kiai xx
need a motherboard driver package that microsoft doesn't install for you. is the one you installed from this year? bob
hi, my brother installed xp for me this year, i used to have win98. he just used the drivers that came with the computer which i bought christmas 2003. the motherboard one says, via kt400/333 series motherboard via kt400/333 chipset series support cd rev.45.04 pc-cillin 2002 anti-virus software asus pc probe asus liveupdate thanks, kiai x
see  i can't be sure this will fix it, but it's a start. more usb information is over at  bob
