hi, i just bought a samsung syncmaster 710n. everything with this monitor is quite satisfieing to me, but there is a big problem: it seems like windows 2000 (sp4 actually) has a big problem displaying things right through this monitor. i actually can not really believe that it is the monitor's problem, because i tested it for 45 minutes in the shop before buying it, but that was with a windows xp machine. it is hard to explain what it looks like, for me mostly like low color quality. i made a shot of an icon to show you what i mean, but i can not assure that what you see will be the same as what i see:  when i looked at an icon before installing this monitor, it has not looked like a cheap gif,.. it looked like a normal high quality icon. now this icon i have taken a shot of, shows a lot of single pixels, it looks raw, it does simply not look like it should. i installed the samsung monitor driver, i have reset the colors, i have auto adjusted several times, i have switched to other resolutions (this tft's optimum is 1280x1024) and switched back again of course - no change at all. some pictures look really bad. not like usual tft quality, they look a bit pixelated). i launched unreal i and had a look at the direct3d performance, same there, strange pixelated graphics and partly unluminated surfaces... i am really out of ideas, solutions or whatever. i noticed this problem at a friend's place too, quite the same tft (some older samsung) and windows 2000. please do not suggest me to upgrade to xp, i will not do this. i am running 2000 on a notebook at work and everything is fine, i know it is possible - so please - if you bring ideas, let them be solutions, because there must be one. thank you for reading and for any suggestions, ideas, solutions. cheers, leo (ps.: you can also find information on this thread here:  )
windows 2000 will install some drivers on initial install but windows update will not install drivers... unless you configured it to do so. my initial question would be &quot;what color depth are you using? they should look good if you are using 16-bit or 32-bit color. it sounds like you are using 8.&quot; but... you may need to fish around for the &quot;show icons using all possible colors&quot; setting. i'm not on the 2000 box so i leave this for you to find. maybe tweakui could help with that or it's icon rebuild tool. as to drivers, i may have missed what video card you have, but as always, try the latest. as to windows update, i suggest you set it to not do drivers. bob
i have a 2000 installation running with a ibm tft monitor and a 4500 3dfx. finding drivers for the 2000 installation was difficult as the card is out of support. i have wxp drivers built into the win xp installation. but not the 2000 installation. i found some third party drivers that worked fairly well.
i installed driver software on a win 98 platforn and did not have a problem. pictures/images were very clean.
