i just got a program called speedfan v4.34, the readings i got are as follow: fan 1: 4821 rpm fan 2: 0 rpm fan 3: 0 rpm temp 1: 25c temp 2: -55c temp 3: 52c hd0 : 35c so um.. is that normal for a pc or is this software just useless. if yes then is there any foolproof way to moniter pc temperature. please explain in details. sorry if posted in wrong section.
the author of speedfan also has a support forum if i recall. there are some that will demand it works but keep in mind the price we paid here. again, take it up with the author and be sure to supply whatever details they ask for. bob
i don't dwell too much on monitoring pgms., speedfan included. i use them during a fix to check results but not on a constant basis monitoring. it can be off and i tend to use them as a suggested rate of observation. others may say, they get good results, but real measurements can vary from those provided by any such apps., so take with a grain of salt. on top of all that, proper install of ans, etc. will show at least they're working. tada -----willy
you were not specific in your concerns. the -55c could be a pin that could have a temp sensor but is not used. as to foolproof the old saying is once you make it foolproof only _ools would use it. good luck, bob
some secondary fans don't support speed monitoring. likewise, some motherboards/bioses don't implement temperature monitoring in a standard fashion. you can configure speedfan to ignore/skip the sensors that aren't producing a reading. if you want a foolproof method, you'll have to download monitoring software from your motherboard manufacturer and use only pwm fans.
well a person on another board told me that no other softwares will give me a more accurate status reading of my pc then my system bios. accordingly i went into bios setup (pressing del twice) and checked out an option called pc health status. it showed.. cpu temperature : 67c cpu fan speed : 4821-4963 rpm system fan speed : 0 rpm now here i have some questions. first is 67c an ok temp for my pc. second what is the difference between cpu fan and system fan. i can open my cpu cabinet. can someone tell me how to identify and check if both cpu and system fan are there and working. i can see three fans, one on the board (motherboard), second attached to the cabinet which can be seen from the back holes of the cabinet and third i believe in the power supply box inside at the topmost side of the cabinet. checking with a flashlight, they all seems to be rotating. system info: gigabyte 8i845gvmrz motherboard, intel pentium 4, chipset i845g, 512 mb ram running windows 2000 pro, and award modular bios v6.00pg
that's on the intel.com site but 67c is fine.
maybe if you shared if there is an issue with the pc we could break free of this gazing at temps?
well actually there are many problems and i had a feeling it had something to do with fans and pc temperature. first and worst problem is that sometimes when i am running my pc, suddenly in the middle it hangs for sometime and then restarts. on the first screen after restart, primary master disk is not detected. like this.. pri. master disk : none pri. slave disk : none sec. master disk : none sec. slave disk : none and on the second screen after restart, an error comes up after which i can do nothing but turn off the main power switch of the pc. error is.. boot from cd/dvd: disk boot failure, insert system disk and press enter weather i try to install norton ghost 2003 image which i had earlier created or even to reinstall the whole windows 2000 pro from its install cd; error comes up saying that hard drives are not detected. i have observed this problem mostly occurs when i am installing softwares, running windows update or browsing my picture folders (thumbnail view) which contains a lots of pictures.
only now know what the real issues are. you may want to rethink such posts since they rarely get back on track of the real problem. -&gt; now that i know this i can share that many i845 boards had bad caps (see google about bad caps) and many are old. the old, tired power supply can have the same issue so we know to inspect for the bad caps plus pop in a monster power supply for a test run. we also leave the cover off until we think we've fixed it. bob
no profit mate, i wanted to know some things about my pc fans as well as the rest of its problems. especially why bios is stating system fan is at 0 rpm readings. but moving on to my main problem, i will see what google says about i845 boards and bad caps. about power supply box, i had it changed a year back and repaired couple of months back. so its not that old. i didn't understand what you mean by, &quot;leave the cover off until we think we've fixed it.&quot;
i mean you should &quot;leave the cover off until we think we've fixed it.&quot; your choice here.
