help!!!!!!!! i will try my best to explain this. my puter is constantly freezing up. whether i am running a program or not. it is always happening. it just happened typing this line. it remembers the key strokes or mouse clicks and then performs the operation about 10 seconds later. i have run spybot and cleaned up a bunch of stuff from that, but still doing it. happens all the time, daily, driving me nuts. any help would be greatly appreciated. thanks in advance all.
besides our usual spyware and pest problems, the other usual is an unconnected ethernet port. fix? disable the ethernet port in bios or windows. bob
i looked and maybe i am just too damn puter illiterate, but cant find anything like that. any additional info or help would still be greatly appreciated. thanks again in advance.
giving the supplier a call about the ethernet port. as to spyware, look up and run the usual tools from google.com called ewido and housecall. bob
this error was commonplace on the old mac ii's. if your computer is lacking in some way (memory, for example) this problem will present itself. also, did you try reformatting?
i will keep you posted, but i ran adaware today, from download.com, and it appears to have cleared up the problem. before i wouldn't have been able to type this much without this thing freezin up. so far, nothing. thanks alot for trying to help me out. this is just another reason i love this site and thank god that i found it. thanks again i truly apprecriate your input. i will keep you posted if anything else occurs. out for now and death to svp and linda's crappy camera world. lol. later.
your friends can't help you if they don't know anything about your system. tell us more.
as i posted earlier, the problem was fixed by downloading and running adaware from download.com. thanks for the suggestions and trying to help, but problem is fixed. i had some sort of virus or trackin bug and adaware cleared it up. if you ever have any problems like mine or just want to see what kind of junk you have picked up, i strongly recommend running it. anyway, thanks again and again i truly appreciate the help and suggestions. have a great one. later.
glad you got it fixed. thanks for the thank you.
