o.k. heres the deal, i have a computer (old) that i'm supposed to fix, an emachines 366i2. i connect the peripherals (keyboard/mouse) and as soon as i connect the power cable it turns on - on it's own but won't stay on very long. it goes on for about 3secs. and powers off then turns on for another 3 secs. and turns back and continues doing that non-stop! until i unplug the power cable...it takes about 10 minutes until i can get it to power on correctly but when it does, it give me an error message saying &quot;disk not ready insert boot diskette in drive a&quot; so i insert a windows 2000 diskette, which is the main o.s. installed on the pc, but when the p.c. reads it, it says &quot;cannot read from partition&quot; and it goes on into windows 2000 setup and stays there for a while and turns right back off and repeats itself with the (*power-on power-off problem)with no results....its like one big cycle with the same thing over-and-over again....i fix p.c's as a hobby and someone (a customer, if you will) brought this p.c. for me to fix... what in the world do i do????? the machine is pretty, if not, really old. specs: emachines 366i2 192mb ram 10gb hard drive windows 2000 o.s. (p.s. sorry for the essay, it's that i really need your help.) thanx in advanced!!!
i had to fix a customers hp pavilion a305w desktop pc! same thing happened as soon as i would connect the power cord to the tower it would turn on and then off. so i ran some test and found out that the power switch was damaged. well the cables you might have to replace the cables that connect from the power button to the motherboard. you might even have to buy a new front i/o power switch with cables. it could also be that your power supply is dying out. all in all luckily for me all i had to do it replace the front i/o power switch with a new set and that worked. customer is happy. so yeah that might be the problem with that pc. power supply failure or power switch failure.
power supply may temporarily fix but will do it again unless patch bios
