i'd like some suggestions as to what a decent pc for various video operations would be. for example: capturing & processing video with a pci pvr card. ripping & processing & burning dvd video. price is flexible, but i am interested in best bang for my buck this will be a dedicated unit that sits down by the home theater. i'm even open to building it myself. although i've never built one before, i have a bs in ee & i work full time as an embedded software engineer.
and ended up with some refurb rca scenium dvr as well as a dvd-recorder. it's working fine. my dad opted for a refurb windows xp media center. bob
that doesn't mean a lot to me. i am interested in what you guys would buy & put together for a pc. what kind of board? which processor? i plan on tons of ram & perhaps some raid array drives for faster hard-disk performance.
i found it to require a 2+ghz p4 and preferably some ht cpu or 64-bitter. the big problem was not the &quot;raid array&quot; or disk speed, but just the overwhelming amount of data the cpu has to crunch. the 4400 rpm drive was the best solution to cut down on noise coming from the pc in the video room. i'm sharing that while snapstream is very nice, you may want to just go with a ready to use solution (much cheaper!) than build your own or something like -&gt;  which my dad purchased and has been enjoying for over a month now. my scenium was a refurb at 139 bucks and the dvd recorder is the aptek for 129 bucks and both are doing fine. i also have the dlink media center like you see at  and it has the benefit of being very quiet while letting me put all the media collection somewhere else in the house. bob
that media center looks like a great deal. thanks!!! i will try & read some reviews about it & see if it has any faults
it's a little slow on the menus. in fact, i'd say it needs to get about 1/2 the time to display stuff for me to never note it as a nuisance. the other gotcha is that dlink doesn't reveal how to encode video for playback. i've had to use the old trial and error method and still haven't nailed it. i'd try another media center like that when i can this year, but for now its working. bob
one thing i would consider is what do i want to do with this system in the future. in reading reviews and doing comparisions look at the expandability of the case and memory in relation to what you may want to do and is this power supply really adequate?
there is no expansion available for ram and the power supply seems just fine. just wondering if you were talking about some other device and if so, be sure to respond to the post about it or note it in your posting. bob
i meant that i was interested in the hp media center 2005. i definitely want a comp, even though the other device is nice & cheap. i wouldn't mind paying twice as much though, but the question is... what kind of increase in performance & capability will i be able to acheive for an extra $800 ?
