i have a desktop with a 1.2 ghz athlon processor (thunderbird i _believe_) with 384 (256+128) ram. no idea about the motherboard, do you know how i can find some stats about it? anyway, running windows xp. sometimes it gets a bit sluggish when i have a lot programs open. will upping the ram to 512 or 768 be worth the money? its sd-ram, by the way.
especially, as you mention, you open a lot of programs at once. 512 to 1 meg would improve things in that regard. you'd still have to weigh the cost of additional ram against saving it toward a new system or at least mb and processor. i remember (and often repeat) a saying i once heard in regard to auto racing that seems relevant with computers as well. &quot;speed costs money. how fast do you want to go?&quot;
i have to agree with steve on this one with regards to the ram issue, but remember, if you're not a frequent upgrader, the sd-ram that's in your system now is not only obsolete, but will be troublesome to find in another year and is incresingly expensive. as an example, your ram probably runs at 133 mhz. ocz technology recently broke the 1000 mhz barrier with ram, so you can see it's getting further and further behind. personally i'd wait and upgrade the board chip and ram at the same time.
seeing as how i am a college student, money for the whole mb/processor/ram at one time is going to take a while. in the mean time i think i'll up the ram to 768 and save for that exotic system of the future. on a slightly different subject, if i shoot for a future price point, $2000 would pretty much get me the best processor/mb/ram/video at any point in time right?
for a long time the trend has been that prices fall and performance increases but prices are falling more slowly now. basically, for the same relative cost today you get more. but, i would not want to predict the future nor would i buy anything today to put away for later. i'd not try to find an &quot;upgradable&quot; pc unless the i planned to upgrade real soon as technology comes and goes too fast to know how long something will be useful. buy what you need today to do what you need to do today and not what you think your needs will be tomorrow. just my opinion only.
if u don't see yourself doing a major upgrade soon (proc, mobo, the whole works), then getting at least 0.75gb of ram would be preferred. winxp is quite the resource hog, and will let u play some low to mid end pc games much better. i was the same way n college. i upgraded ram, hd, burner drive, mouse, and os. everything else that was larger and more expensive i waited till i got out of school and would be able to better afford then. for new system $2000 is enough for prebuilt places like dell. that price point should even include a nice lcd monitor. if ya want a more extravagent lcd monitor, consider spending a 'lil more for a better lcd (20+ in, or maybe even those 24'' widscreen ones). spending more on a good monitor may work well for future investments, as ppl will often reuse the same nice monitor for 5+ years, till the end of its lifecycle. you can shave up to hundreds of $$ off if you can find online deals and coupons for those pcs if you're assembling your own pc, $2000 is enough with extra bells and whistles.
well seeing as how i'm a tech and small computer business owner my tendancy, especially in u.s. dollars (i'm canadian) would be to say that you could get yourself a kick @ss gaming system for that kind of dough, with a 8ms response time monitor. a word of caution, going with anything larger than 19&quot; in an lcd with a decent reponse time (12ms or under, preferably 8ms) is going to cost you dearly. as for the system, if you're adventurous and want to put it together yourself, a high end gaming system with amd processor and dual sli nividia video cards could be in your future. good luck.
my intent is to build my own system, once i get that amount cash. thanks for all the advice.
