i built a pc last year and recently activated windows xp pro on it. amd athlon 4000+ 2.4 ghz bfg tech geforce 7800gt oc'ed 37 gb wd-raptor 10,000 rpm radmax case with 420w power supply corsair xms 4x 512mb ram (2gb total) dvd drive lg chaintech nvidia nforce4 motherboard socket 939 samsung 19&quot; widescreen lcd monitor windows vista certified i activated windows and this pc boots up really fast. but it will run for about 2-3 minutes then it will freeze the os except for the mouse that can't click and open any applications, then i have to pull the plug. it's not overheated and it stalls??? and i'm not getting any internet on it either, it's not the isp though because i'm using a different pc on the same ethernet jack it the pc runs fine. when it ran the first time i could run counter strike source at 170 fps. how does a computer like this keep locking up on me?
try it with just 2 sticks of ram and the case cover off to let it cool to the max. some build their own and forget heatsink compound or the entire heatsink. bob
i'll give it a shot but the thing usually locks up before it even heats up at all. the heatsink had a little patch on the bottom that felt like thin gooey stuff so i assumed that it was. it only runs at 36-37 celcius.
all bets are off when overclocking. start with stock settings first. my apologies for missing the overclocked item. bob
it's factory overclocked out of the box. even it doesn't even get that hot.
sorry but i didn't know that. another avenue to explore is bios and driver updates from the motherboard maker. this has paid off for me as well. bob
two sticks of ram and it still locked up. could it have anything to do with the hard drive?
why is the hard disk suspect? if so try the hard disk makers disk test software. keep the cover off for now. also, a complete list of what was running at the time of the crash (use tasklist) would be nice as well as a short story about all the lovely drivers you installed after you were done with the windows cd. as well share that all the fans are spinning. bob
its a weird situation. it crashes when i hardly open anything. something as simple as windows media player and internet explorer casue it to crash. i'd try to system restore but the damn thing crashes in the middle of shutting down. i guess i'll have to take it to a store.
this sounds like a major issue. i would go back to where you got your mobo and either get it exchanged or better yet try a different manufactuerer. i checked out the chaintech page and i cannot get any info on their motherboards. plus their site is incredibly slow.
