i have dual displays on my pc and would like to add a third and i'm seeking advice on what i need hardware wise. i have the monitors. i just need an appropriate video card (i.e. a second video card). i don't want to spend much money on this. here are my specs: -i'm running 64-bit vista, to be upgraded to 64-bit win7 shortly. it's a dell studio xps core i7 pc. -i believe this is my motherboard:  -my current video card is an ati radeon hd 3450. it handles two displays fine. -ideally i would have dvi and vga connected monitors to this video card (1920x1080 and 1680x1050) i would like add a third monitor, which i have already, 1600x900. from what i understand, i can do this by adding a second video card. but i don't know what to buy. i know an internal video card has to be compatible and can't go beyond what my motherboard and psu can take. but i know there are also external usb video cards and i'm wondering if one of those would be the way to go. i'm not into gaming, but i do video editing. the ati card works fine for such purposes. so my third display will be used for work - displaying documents, web browsing, etc. i would have no problem unplugging the usb attached monitor during video editing if need be. so i want a cheap solution that will allow for a third display, one that will support the resolution and give a decent picture and not impact the quality of the other two displays. thanks!
you could fret about the compatibility (i don't) or move forward. that is, i can't assuage fears here but if i wanted another display as you noted i'd get a pcie x1 video card (newegg and amazon have them) then pop it in then install the drivers. or i'd look at the sewell usb video solutions. bob
my radeon graphics card also has an hdmi port. so it has dvi hdmi and vga. does that mean it can support 3 monitors?
i've yet to see one that allows all three to be used like you wanted.
can you give me an example of a pcie x1 card i could buy? i'm not sure what pcie x1 means exactly. i'm assuming that it has something to do with the fact that there is only one slot on my motherboard that is the specs that fit my current graphics card?
here's the 5450 on newegg.  the pcie x1 is what those slots on the motherboard are. if i were to bet, the x16 slot is in use but i can't tell from the post so far. bob
if you look at my motherboard in the above link it's the one plugged into slot #25. so the one you're recommending would be plugged into slot # 27 or 28, right? and they'd both be in use simultaneously? just to follow up: -i'd rather spend less money. what's the cheapest one i could get that would work on my system with a 1600x900 monitor? -second, will my psu have enough juice to support 3 displays?
i think you can figure out that. as to cheapest, you go shopping. i only go as far as this then you get to do the work. sorry if that upsets anyone but this is all volunteer and i only go so far. the juice issue is a good question and why i picked this card. so you don't have a juice issue (unless there is more added to the machine that we know about.) bob.
