i have 2 harddrive questions: 1. i have an external hard drive and although i am suppose to have a usb 2.0 connection no matter where i pull the cable it keeps telling me that the hard drive is not going to function as well and needs to be put in a usb 2.0 port. 2. i currently have a 80gb hard drive installed on my computer and when like to get and larger one installed. can they install a bigger hard drive say 250gb and transfer over all my stuff from the 80gb hard drive without causing any problems?
1. are you sure that your computer is usb 2.0? make sure that you have tried this whith every port on your pc. your hard drive will work in usb 1.1 mode, but transfer speeds will be dramatically lower. i'm not joking. you will notice a huge difference with usb 2.0. it is possible that your computer is usb 2.0 compliant, but for some reason is in usb 1.1 mode. if you are sure that your computer should be usb 2.0, but for some reason is not, then email me at ranguvar13@gmail.ocm, i may be able to help more. 2. why not run both hard drives together.? you can do that. you can keep your os on the 80gb one,a nd use the larger one for most of your data that won't fit on the old one. ''can they install a bigger hard drive say 250gb and transfer over all my stuff from the 80gb hard drive without causing any problems?'' do you mean transfer everything (as in, windows (or whatever you use), apps, games, utilities, etc.), or do you mean just drag-and-drop data over? either way, the answer is yes. if you want to copy everything, though, you will need a drive-imaging app like symantec norton ghost. that program will read all the data on your 80-gb hard drive into a single file, which can be then (with ghost or whatever) be uncompressed onto your new hard drive, resulting in a perfect copy of everything. i hope i could help.
about the usb 2.0 port you nead driver for usb 2.0 to be installd for it to work. about swaping disks the best thing is to by this program  to make a copy of your c: drive to the usb 2.0 drive and then pasting the imigefile to your new 250gb disk. after that you chang te 80 and the 250 on the cabels and log in to windows. when loggd in you go for the command promt and run cmd if you do it right you get a black window, in it you type chkdsk c: /r and hit enter, then answer yes to the question and reboot. after the reboot is doon you done! best regardes thomas persson it doktor
1 - you may have the usb ports set at 1.0 speed in the bios. this is unlikely, but the only thing i could think of, unless you only have 1.0 ports 2 - yes, use norton/symantec ghost
are you 100% sure that the ports on the computer you have are usb 2.0 ports? what type/model of computer is it that you have? is the 80 gig drive the drive on which your operating system is installed? if it is then you will need a some drive image software unless you want to reinstall the os and your applications.
there are hardware and software compatibility issues with larger hd's, so you need to: - tell us the make & model of your computer. - tell us what operating system you are using (example: windows xp with sp2). * * * * * 1. if your computer has only usb 1.1 ports, install a pci usb 2.0 card. 2. you can keep your os on the 80gb drive and just install the 250gb hd as a secondary drive. if you want to move everything to the new hd, the hd maker (seagate, western digital, hitachi, maxtor, etc.) provides a free utility to transfer the image of everything on the 80gb model to the new hd. note that the utility from a particular maker usually only works if you have one of their hd's installed.
as far as the usb thing goes it sounds like your pc does not have usb 2.0. the larger hard drive could be a very easy thing though. just get the new hard drive and put it in the second bay of your computer. make sure that the hard drive is set to slave. then you will not have to go through all the work of mirroring the drive. you will still have the 80 gb drive just as it ws before, but now you will also have the 250 gb drive. thats what i would do. since you already have the 80 gb drive why not use it too. more storage is more storage ~carl marx
my computer shows that i have a usb 2.0 port but its not reconizing it as being a high speed port. the people at gateway told me the i need a usb adapter. it is possible for the usb ports to work but be defective as not to work as a 2.0 port? also, i think i will just add another hard drive.
i do have a usb 2.0 port but for some reason my external hard drive doesn't reconize it. my brother doesn't have this problem when he uses the hard drive with his computer.
whats the best way to check if i do indeed have a usb 2.0 port?
