i am having a problem with my computer after i return from standby. i have an hp pavilion ze5185 notebook computer with 2.1 ghz pentium 4 processor, 512 mb ram, 60 gb hard disk drive, and the networking is built into the board. i am using wired networking. i am running windows xp home edition with sp2. the router is a dlink di 604. when i put my computer in standby mode and come back a few minutes or couple of hours later, networking isn't working. i can't make a connection to the internet. i have to log off and log back on to restore access to my network or the internet. and, i usually run the computer in a limited account for security reasons, so i can't disable the network connection and re-enable it, or repair it, because i don't have admin access. if anyone knows what the problem is, i would appreciate knowing what to do. is there a program that can help me with these connectivity problems and re-establishing network/internet connectivity when having these problems? thanks
on desktop... even on stand alone pc. turning off the pc is much better than using standby or hibernate...
gakada is correct--on some systems, there are problems with returning from standby and hibernate. sometimes a motherboard bios update that fixes this is available. i did run into a wireless-g network adapter that exhibited this behaviour and was able to fix it by installing a newer firmware version. note that not all adapters have upgradable firmware. check to see if there is newer driver to download for the adapter. sometimes there is a network adapter setting that allows the computer to turn off the device to save power. try turning this feature off.
. sat - 13-may-06 - from: jwa - . i use standby all the time - except for restarting once a week or so - i close the notebook cover and it goes in to standby. open it, and it is back on - quickly. . i used to use hibernate, but standby leaves the electronics warm - better than cooling down and heating up frequently. the hard drive is off (maybe good, maybe not so good.) and, it comes back to life very quickly. . i think that hibernate makes much more use of the harddrive, and i know that it takes much longer to re-start. . does anyone know of good reasons not to use standby regularly ?? . {note: win-xp-home, toshiba notebook, celeron 2.4; 512mb; 45 to 55 applications open at once almost always. } . -eom- .
