hello, thanks for taking the time to read this. bah! just got a new (well out in 2001 - it's an old system!) game for my laptop to while away the autumn nights, and the cd rom has stopped working. i have a travelmate 230, with mobile intel celeron cpu 2.00 ghz, 256 mb ram, intel 82845g graphics controller. the cd drive was working fine a week or so ago. i have recently uploaded several windows updates. the cd drive is now not working. it says that the driver is missing or corrupted.i have tried all the trouble shooting methods to no avail, and the drivers i find on websites are only for ibm or dell. can anybody help? also - is it worthwhile/possible to upgrade this laptop to play better/newer games? thank you in anticipation of any help.
the usual is the code 39 or such issue, but that's not a missing drive but a few registry keys we delete and the drive comes back. bob
it was when i followed the trouble shooting instructions. i have cleaned the registry with a new tool lately (eusing free registry cleaner); if that is the case how can i delete the registry keys? thanks a lot by the way - i might be in icewind dale before the night is out!
i can't tell if this article will do the trick.  hint, just delete the upperfilters and lowerfilters, reboot... bob
oh. i don't think so! should i go through what i have already done again before trying the link?cheers for this, by the way - much appreciated.
saves me time in the long run. your choice to investigate.
i'll try the other first if it won't do any harm. cheers.
bloody magic! cheers bob! it would be a trip to the boozer if you lived round here i can tell you! is there anything 'forum wise' i can do? anywhere to review help or anything? as you can tell, i am very grateful! cheers!
best of continued luck. bob
i think i did delete lot of not use program such as spyware and maybe by mistake also delete ... than starting had problem on my dell 5100 loptop i used device manager verify the cdrw/dvd matshita ujda740 shown window can not load device driver ... code 39. then i down load driver from dell but shown supported driver is not connected. so i think your suggestion was right. but i do not know how to delete the filter registry file as yo mention on the ms article? thanks
i had similar problem how you fixed it? thanks.
if you can't use that article i suggest you print the article and take it to your friendly guru for them to finish the task. bob
i have a toshiba satellite a105-s4014 with a matshita dvd-ram uj-841s. the os is xp media sp2. my matshita worked fine for a long time. suddenly, it was no longer being recognized or was being discovered as new hardware and loading drivers. sometimes, it would show up as what it was supposed to, sometimes not. it was always a garbled variant of matshita dvd-ram uj-841s. i tried uninstalling and reinstalling the drivers to no avail and sought software conflicts with the same results. i started thinking i had a bad/loose cable, so, with a nervous heart, i took my notebook apart. i found no internal cabling problems. disappointed, i started putting it back together. i had it almost completely reassembled, when i noticed something. my dvd-ram is held in the chassis by a single screw; no handy latches. the screw hole only lined up with the dvd-ram sticking out of the chassis about 1/16 inches. i considered this to be far enough that the connection probably didn't seat properly with the screw in. i pulled the device out of the chassis and took a look. the screw that holds it in place goes through the bottom of the notebook case and into a tab that sticks out the back of the dvd-ram. i tweak the tab with a pair of pliers so that the screw hold would line up properly with the dvd-ram seated completely in the chassis, and the connector would thus be seated properly. it worked. i am now very happy. my matshita is recognized and running at all times. john s
the problem probably started with the cd tray getting bumped a few times while sticking out. beware.
