hi i have a toshiba tablet laptop and lost my software modem (agere). it intially had com3 but wasn't working working after loading (i think) bluetooth stacking software so i thought i would just uninstall and delete the modem for it to auto find itself again. no such luck. i downloaded the modem software with drivers from toshiba-used their delete program and reinstalled. still no modem. i tried to add 56k standard modem but there were no com ports in the dialog box. i have a usb printer on com4 that works fine. any help is greatly appreciated. alan
i am using xp. alan
what shows on com 3 now? another option if windows won't auto-detect and you have the correct driver is to use the &quot;have disk&quot; option to add new hardware.
thanks for responding. this is a laptop and i believe the modem is a software modem (agere) and is part of the motherboard. i would say it is a hardware problems except it was there saying it wasn't attached to a com port. i deleted it thinking it would refind itself but it didn't. now it doesn't show anything when i look in the control panel-phone and modems. i reloaded the driver for the modem. i tried to add a com port and it picked com3 which leads me to think it was also removed. i got a yellow exclamation even though i changed the resources to reflect no conflicts. any help is appreciated. alan
put the driver files in a folder of your choice. call it &quot;modem&quot; if you wish. go to add/remove hardware but don't let windows search for new devices but use the &quot;have disk&quot; option. point to the driver in the folder you used. it should display the modem. sometimes driver utils cover several models so you need to have an idea of what it is. select the right model. windows will alert you if it doesn't match any of your hardware. if it's a match, install it and see what happens.
i have the driver in a folder. wen i use have disk it shows an inf file but doesn't show any modems. i think the problem may lay with having no com port. when i add a port com3 comes up, which means maybe it wasn't there. unfortunately, i get a yellow exclamation even after i remove all conflicts. any help is appreciated.
disable an unused com port in the bios if possible. if your modem is actually still there and functional, you might be able to put it on that port. you did mention something in your first post about a bluetooth device installation. did that coincide with this problem? if so, backtracking to a point before that might offer clues.
i deleted the driver in the system32/driver and it reloaded on com11. however, i now get a message saying the port modem attached to couldn't be opened. any thoughts. alan
sounds like a virtual port. in my other post i suggested you try backing out of the bluetooth software you seemed to suggest was related to the modem going missing. if it worked before the new software but not afterwards, it would make sense to verify the suspicion by removing that software and seeing what would happen. in fact, remove it and see if you don't have a restore point available that's prior to that time.
