i am building a computer for the first time and i have a few questions. will an antec 350w case with ps be enough to power an amd 64 3000+, dvdrw drive, geforce fx 5200? which would be easier to set up ide or sata hd. if i had just the dvdrw on its own channel would i set it to slave or master and if i decided to go with an ide hd would i put the two on the same channel or on different ones and if they were on the same which would be slave and master?
&quot;will a 350w ps be enough to power an amd 64 3000+, dvdrw drive, geforce fx 5200?&quot; yes &quot;which would be easier to set up ide or sata?&quot; ide &quot;if i had just the dvdrw on its own channel would i set it to slave or master?&quot; master &quot;if i decided to go with an ide hd would i put the two on the same channel or on different ones?&quot; different ones with the hd as primary master and the dvdrw drive as secondary master &quot;if they were on the same which would be slave and master?&quot; hd = master and dvdrw = slave
thanks man, isnt the whole cablin setup of a sata drive easier though? like do u set a master and slave on sata? is the recognization of sata drives a little quirkier than it is with ide drives?
while that will be a big enough power supply to start the install, you may install hardware that will require a lot more than that in the near future. get a 400-450w power supply, don't settle for only 350w.
see im lookin at an antec solution series case with a 350w ps or a case from liteon with a 400w ps. is going with the better company with lower wattage a good idea?
in my experience, cases that come with power supplies often times like to rip you off and give you crap. antec i would trust, and lite-on, yeah maybe i'd trust them too. but an alternate solution would be to buy a case without a psu, take the money you save on that, and buy a psu of your choice. that's how i always do it. and the 350 watts is kinda low for your hardware. definetly go higher, it never hurts. hehe, if you can get an xp 3000 i dont think an extra 50-60 will hurt? then again maybe im wrong.
