hi folks- duo pro drive 2tb drive will not mount. got disk warrior to rebuild the desktop once, but disk utility can't mount or repair now and techtool pro 4 tells me &quot;failed. bitmap mismatch. (-90) mac ox leopard intel any work around? suggestions? feedback? what may have caused this? i thought it might be an overheating problem so i have an ice pack on it! (it actually mounted this way once!) lol
if so, send it back for a replacement. who knows why drives fail. some go for years without a problem, others last a couple of months. if you are trying to recover data, other than from your backup, the ice pack (or overnight in the freezer) has been known to work for long enough to safe some data p
glad to hear there was something to my desperate act of putting an icepack on the drive! also i ran techtoolpro 4/tests/volumes on the drive. funny, after i ran that then i hit the play button again (running the volume structures test again to rebuild the drive). that didn't solve the matter, but i think it prepped it so that when i ran the latest version of disk warrior next, it finally was able to rebuild the drive. alas! it now shows up on disk utility and passed the repair test there (oh good thing we all have that lame utility!) it repaired the fixed volume just fine! i'm dragging off any valuable files off of the duo pro now and yes, sending it back to simpletech where they said they will replace it. they said when the drive starts ejecting itself it's big time trouble. i guess i'm lucky to have recovered it at all. thanks again for the feedback and tip, folks!
tonyreedo, thank you so much for letting us know what worked for you. i'm in nearly the exact same situation. only, my hardrive now mounts in disk utility (as an unformatted drive) but it won't show up in disk warrior. so i'm unable to rebuild the drive. i'm running the techtoolpro 4/tests/volumes on the drive right now but am unclear on what you did next. you said &quot;funny, after i ran that then i hit the play button again (running the volume structures test again to rebuild the drive)&quot;. do you mean you just ran the same test again then quit then opened disk warrior and was able to rebuild? thanks for your help!
