recently decided to build my own pc and after tinkering and connecting all the components, it was up and running properly. i put in a second hardrive and it was still ok although i hadnt yet begun installing my os. i tried startin it 2day to install the os but it just showed me a blank black screen. everything inside is visually functioning properly, the fan...etc, but the cd rom drive doesnt even open. im thinkin it mite be static on the motherboard (and i pray it aint) but there hasnt been any shocks between me and the comp. infact i left it in good working order but when i returned it wasnt. (i also left it with the case open) is there a way i can tinker with the mother board to make it 4get it was on strike and start again? ive already tried to reset it with the cmos pins.
have you determined if the hard drive is spinning up? try listening close to the unit for signs that the hard drive is powering/and or watch for the front indicator light. the problem sounds as though it may be related to the power supply. did the power supply come with a new case that you bought for this build? if so that may be the culprit. these &quot;oem&quot; power supplies are not the best thing to run your computer on. they're mass produced and i've seen many a power supply come with some mid tower fry in the first twelve hours. the manufacturing tolerance and testing on them is not the greatest. make sure there is at least one brass motherboard riser to ground the board properly, hmmm....what else, is it posting ok? or beeping more than one short beep? what's the motherboard brand name? did you try pulling out and reseating the cards (video, sound , ram) whatever you have in there? i know, a million and one questions, but that symptom could be so many things.
success! i did what you said and reseated all my cards, infact i took the darn thing apart and put it together. turned it on, inserted floppy disk 1 of 6 to allow me to install xp from cd rom. after a long proccess of inserting disk after disk i was greeted with the very welcomed setup page. it sed press enter to install win xp, had another option for recovery and another for quitting. i proceeded to press enter but nothing happened, all over sudden my keyboard had failed. ive tried another keyboard that works, but nothing. what i dont understand is why it allowed me to get thru the setup process then cut me off. when i turn the comp again the keyboard works properly. these are my basic hardware specs atx 400w power athlon xp 2400 6 gig hdd 256mb ddr 266mhz 2004 rz athlon xp series motherboard
you must be kidding! it couldn't be new so maybe that's your problem and it's probably faulty and definately undersize! buy a new (minimum 20gig) hdd as they are very cheap. persanally, i would install an 80 gig hdd to give me room for files. mp3s for example.
you do have a network connection don't you? windows needs to &quot;call home&quot; to complete installation. you must have an installed modem with a phone connection if you do not already have a broadband isp already set up with the cable or dsl modem installed.
ait, ill get an 80 gig hdd with my next pay. i dont have an internal modem coz i decided to buy a bt voyager 105 modem from aol instead. i can remove a dial up modem from this pc so thats not a problem. i really do appreciate your help and look foward to coming bak here wen my new hdd decides to start running circles around me. looks like i was thinking way too much about the power instead of simply buyin the right equipment.
hey, you do not need a modem to complete the installation of windows xp. you do not need to be hooked up to the internet at all. it will ask you and you just say later. to be hoenst i do not think that it is the hdd xp only needs 1.5gb for the installation. i do recommend getting a larger hdd before continuing though. good luck
yes he is correct you do not need to contact microsoft to finish the instalation but there is a problem with the hdd the size is not any concern here however the speed might be causing the problem standard hdd's run at 7200 rpm's and older ones run at 5600 (i belive) if the hard drive is running slower than this there might be some communication issues while trying to write to the hdd at the very least it will take a long time to install and will cause bottlenecking durring bootup and many other critical times also with that small of a hdd it has got to be reaching about 7-10 years old (roughly) which exeeds the expected lifetime of a hdd from that era even if it was not a faulty hdd i would highly reccomend replacing it let us know how things turn out
bought a cheap 20 gig drive and my computer finally started singing in tune. thanx alot for ur help ppl. mucho apreaciated. infact im typin this from the ex-troubled computer. next i have my sights set on a sweet 160 gig - if im gonna buy space, mite as well buy space good.
on sale today at circuit city for $40 after rebates
