hey all, please help me on this issue. my computer spec's are: amd xp 1900 maxtor 40gig ati 9000 128mb asus a7n8x-x mobo 1 year ago my computer was rebooting everytime i was using a software like norton, or games like call of duty or anything that seemed to be using more memory. i've did a memcheck ... never seen any error on my ram. we've brought the computer to a computer store, they came back and told us it would be 200$ to fix or 300$ and it was the mobo,ram was fine, graphic card was fine and also the processor so i've bought the asus a7n8x-x mobo .. installed it and apparently when transfering a file from two partition, my computer rebooted again. i checked the event viewer and it tells me there was an error on harddisk0 .. so now i think its the hard drive. i've downloaded a maxtor diagnostic and as i was rebooting the computer the screen turned off ... and i can't get the screen back up, i've removed the port for my graphic card and reinserted it and its still black but shows connected, my monitor is fine, i can use another computer box and boot up. so here is my issue. 1. my computer reboots whenever, or gives blue screen of death 2. i've reinstalled a new motherboard 3. i've did diagnosed memcheck for my ram - suceeded 4. i tried booting up floppy for harddrive diagnostic and now i can't get my screen on, it just stays black. is there any good diagnostic for memory,processor,mobo, fan, whatever you can find so i can fix this ******* issue (sorry for language) please help me try to figure this out, its money and time wasting. sam
i don't see what size power supply is in this box. it's often overtaxed and leads to posts like yours. next items of interest? 1. spyware. simply something you can't allow on the machine. 2. heat. the simple test. remove the side cover. better? same? 3. bios updates? is your machine current? 4. motherboard drivers? microsoft didn't do it, did you? bob
it sounds to me like the most likely causes are in order of probability 1) a defective or low quality/underpowered power supply (an athlon xp needs a high quality power supply) 2) overheating 3) a defective stick of ram the easiest thing to do is try a different stick of ram and see if the problem ends. you didn't mention the power supply. especially if it is not a high quality one, i would replace it with a high quality one of at least 300 watts.(my choice would be antec) what cpu temperatures is your system showing?
thanks for the reply 250 watts power supply is whats in the box. 1. no spyware, i run the scan each reboots 2.the cover is not on cause i just replaced the mobo so i haven't had time to put the cover. there is no heat, i don't smell anything, both fan are running. 3. i flashed my bios 30 minutes before this happened however i was able to boot up to windows after,that's where i moved a file to another partition and the computer rebooted i got back to windows and checked the event viewer to find out the harddisk0 crashed now i can't do anything, i am stuck with a flashing orange light monitor. 4. i've installed all drivers for that mobo the day before. 5. i've installed service pack 2 on it also. and to let you guys know i tried another graphic card in the board and my monitor still doesn't detect that one. but it works with my dell computer.
thanks, computer is not heating up however the powersupply is not a manufactor i've seen before, its 255 watts i've changed the stick of ram .. and it didn't help i wish i knew my cpu temp but i can't get it to bios to check or windows my computer can be 24hrs off, and it still won't turn on, so it couldn't be heat related if its cold. if its the ******* motherboard again, kill me
it certainly leaning towards a bad power supply. the beware factor is, if the p/s is actually bad and you install new devices or componets it may bring them down, not just not work but break them. its the cheapest solution for now to replace the p/s unit and then worry about the mtrbd as the next possible cause. the repair shop should have mentioned that, but a flaky p/s is problematic to resolve. a 350w unit is a good start but 400w+ units or better and you count on quality, as cheap is cheap. on top of all this, you should at least try a &quot;minium system&quot; setup, the basic stuff, just do it. don't take anything for granted, all you need is fd, video, 1-ram stick or bank and mouse, kybd. no hds, or cds drives active and reflect that at bios if possible. if you can't even get a screen then, you have a serious problem, try swapping parts out to replace in the minium system setup. if you have any warranty with repair shop return it for such as a new mtrbd. should last longer. good luck -----willy
you've found your issue. why such a small supply? bob
thanks, at the time the box it was build, bad credits goes to futureshop.com. so even if theres light on the machine when you turn it on and the graphic card doesn't work .. it's still the powersupply ??
the issue has been an repeating nightmare for owners. i'll help you wake up, but only if you want. bob
a nice writeup on choosing a power supply.  bob
im kinda jumping into a convo that i odnt know about cuase i havent read any of the replies, but i had a computer kinda like that and it would reboot autotmatcally when would try to load a level in call of duty. i never found out what the problem was, becase i bought a new computer. but, i have had the problem where you reboot, and you can see the bios menu and stuff but but when the login to windows starts, your monitor turns off. if this is your problem, boot in safe mode. then reinstall your graphics card's driver. then reboot not in safe mode (normal mode?) then you will get back into windows. lol and if your problem has already been solved by these peoples replies then sorry for butting in, and if this has nothing to do with your problem, sorry
he doesn't need a 400 watt power supply, just a high quality 300 watt one, unless he wants to add a few more peripherals or a higher end video card, then a 350 watt one would be a good idea. i suggest going with the brand antec, although there are some other brands that are high quality. an off brand 255 watt power supply is quite likely to be a problem in an athlon xp system.
hey man, its cool. i've done all of those you meantion .. however you don't need to be sorry at least your trying to help ... but right now i am looking into thinking its the power supply.
i changed the power supply to 430watt bought two kingston 256mb ram (might of been bad ram before) changed the mobo to asus a7n8x-x reformatted, dad started playing and now after 2-3 weeks its giving him blue screen and freezing his pc just like it did before i started this thread. only thing we didn't do is change the cpu but this is starting to get cost effective, we bought a new mobo, powersupply and new ram tell me what you think
you need to pressure the supplier to stand up to the system parts. of course you'll remove the case cover, have a current bios, bios defaults and not think that a new board would have the latest bios. no spyware either. bob
while a high quality p/s units are available, they're just as good to get a hi-wattage unit. the prices being that they are, most users would rather go that route until they realize it made more sense to actually get not only a quality unit but a hi-wattage one. i recommend 350w too, but there are so many 400w+ and the typical user will be happy. 500w units are readily available and come with dual fans, etc. to help keep the p/s unit stable, to include 400w units in the model line. excluding any quality issues, most 400w units do alright. -----willy
my advise is to get away fro amd.... intel is much more stable sounds like to me that your processor is not supporting the other hardware
this might be worth looking into. had same problems with a similar setup. does that have shared video? like on-board? if so, try adding a different video card. that's what i found for the solution in my problem. i would be copying files, etc, and it with blue screen and restart. the minute i added a different video card, problems went away. was with an asus mobo and kinsgton ram as well. let me know.
