first of all, thanks for taking the time to read this. background: i have a linksys 802.11b wireless router from an earthlink dsl modem. about a year ago, a bright young woman from compusa set-up a wireless network between my old gateway pii 350 desktop (win 98) and newer laptop (fujitsu e7010, win xp home). everything was working wonderfully and then i bought a new laptop (compaq win xp). i only wanted to access the internet at home and was not having any problems until i took the computer to frys (local electronics store). i was sitting in the caf and tried to logon to the wireless network there i couldnt get internet access. probably because there wasnt a free network there. when i came home i keep getting the limited /no connectivity when trying to get on my own network. when i attempt to repair the connection, i keep getting the error regarding unable to renew ip address. the compaq will connect to the internet when i use the ethernet cable however. i have recently switched to firefox, downloaded spybot, and installed norton antivirus, but i wasnt having any problems until coming home from frys. ive tried: 1.
1) is the ssid set to be broadcasted? 2) check for mac filtering.
it's the drivers in my case. another card and it works. this is not a hardware issue, but the quality of the drivers. a reboot works. but if i release and renew, its dead. lesson for me? don't do that. bob
m.g., thanks for your reply -- how do i check these things? are they on the router or the new laptop? i'm assuming the new laptop, since the old laptop seems to work well wirelessly. -chris
bob, thanks for the tip, but i'm still a novice -- by drivers do you mean repairing xp, re-installing xp, or figuring out the driver for the integrated wireless card in my laptop (which i'm not sure if i know where that would be)? chris
are within the setup program of the router. your manual will tell how to access it from your pc. bob does make the point that connection problems are often fixed by using the latest firmware for the router and again this is in the manual.
in my example (a card i own) the issue is the card's drivers. since there will never be a fix, i have choices. complain about it. don't release and renew. use it since it works anyway. how can i share this? you can't fix it unless you go with some other make/model and theirs works. bob
that happened to a couple of laptops i was working on. i'm assuming you don't have a secure network. on one of them, i simply went to the system restore's earlier time (before things started happening). i then &quot;renewed&quot; (repaired) the ipaddress and it worked just fine. on another laptop, we actually had to send the laptop back to the manufacturer to get it working. the laptop lost its ability to &quot;repair&quot; after the user intalled sp2. on the first laptop i worked on started having problems after updating the system from ibm. my suggestion is that you don't update os and it looks like you know know how to secure your system without sp2. good luck!
