well ive had a huge problem with my pc for a while now specs: asus p5n32-sli dlx pentium d 3.2 4gb ram 2 nvidia 7800 256mb in sli cooler master case with 4 fan side side window (i will note this system was about 4.5g when i bought it so im desperate to get it working without full replacement.) so about 2 months ago i had a short in my room and trying to run my pc only on a tripplite battery backup because i didnt notice power was out on 1 circuit, a bolt of electricity came out about an inch from my 1000w ps and it was fried. later i bought a bfg 850w and my problems start. all seems well, then about 5 minuets after loading windows normally my pc shuts off. i cant figure anything out and finally take it to bestbuy geek squad(useless) and they say the mobo is bad, i have it traded out with a dirty looking but identical mobo through asus warrenty, same problems, so i take it to a computer repair and by this time i was trying to install vista wen this all started so i tried to get it on and bios is the only thing loadable. at the repair shop they use a test ps at 450w and it stays on for a few hours no problem. so i buy a new 700w ps because that is the 2nd larges available in my area(did order a 1000wps from newegg but has yet to come) and everything seems great, i got vista installed and many updates most counterstrike and source run fine at a max 35% cpu and all is well, until i run the vista rating program and it does the same shutoff. so i do it again with the task manager up and it shuts off at 100% cpu useage, and all other times it seems to shutoff when maintaining hugh cpu demand above 80% so i look in bios hardware monitor. i am used to seeing 50c/40c for cpu/mobo but now its showing 70c/35c. (note: it was 54c on cpu beforetaking it to bestbuy.) so i have a few things suggesting power supply overheating and a few saying cpu overheating. please, can anyone give me suggestions. if any further info is need please ask.
also my case is designed for super good airflow and i guarentee thats not it, having a fan blow on back of pc at ps exhaust does nothing, and cpu heat sink (zalman cnps9500) is a freon fill tube and has treated me wellsince i put it in. better than any liquid cooling ive seen when combined with the case airflow.
and if you go get your cpu &quot;specs&quot; show your pentium d 3.2ghz to be 69.8c maximum. yours is beyond this so i'd at least leave the cover off until you can get some fresh heatsink compound. then i'd get the hsf off, clean and put on the fresh compound. i can't count how many times i'd seen a tech remove the hsf, look at it and put it back on without even a small drop of compound to help fill in the voids they created. bob
i knew thermal grease was very necessary but i had no idea that it would make 20-30c difference between a barely there layer from the pc reapir place and the amount i applied. thank you, computer is finally back up and running perfect.
thank you for telling the story in your first post. it has enough clues plus a story to have me to think about something specific to try. and yes, the new techs at many &quot;shops&quot; will think nothing of pulling off the heatsink to look and of course it works fine &quot;in the shop.&quot; you made the &quot;perfect&quot; post and put the advice to good use. best of continued self made luck! bob
