i have installed 3 brand-new 80gb maxtor internal hard drives in my computer. every one of them makes a loud clicking noise like a geiger counter, when scanning the registry and files for viruses, spyware, etc. the last hard drive i installed even makes clicking noises, when it's booting up, and an hd monitoring application called hdd health shows a t.e.c. (threshold exceeded condition) date of 2/15/2005, which indicates the new hd could fail anytime soon. hdd health uses s.m.a.r.t. to monitor hard drive soundness. in all three cases, it indicated a degradation in seek time performance and a combination of other errors, although my pc always booted and ran normally with no detectible glitches. i originally purchased the maxtor hd from an online company, but subsequently decided to deal directly with maxtor, when the second installed drive made the same loud clicking noises as the first one. a maxtor customer service rep i talked to asked me to put my telephone receiver right up to the pc tower, so that he could hear what kind of sounds i was complaining about. he confirmed that the sound was due to a defective hard drive and that i should return it to his company for replacement. well, the new hard drive they sent me is even noiser than the two others before it. when i called maxtor about the replacement drive, a different customer service rep told me the noise was normal and part of the hard drive's seek process. has anyone had the same experiences with noisy maxtor drives like i described? is this normal for all maxtor internal hds? i can't believe the noise is normal, because the original ibm h/d that came with my dell computer never made any noise at all. should i return the latest maxtor h/d for another one, which would make it the fourth one, or should i try a different brand like western digital?
there is a program than allows you to change settings for maxtor drive acoustics. searching the maxtor site, i see they no longer offer it for download. info about it can be found at:  the download link does not work. you may be able to find it still available with a google search. if not, contact me through my profile, and i can email it to you, harv.
thanks for your reply to my dilemma, brent. however, i'm more concerned about whether the loud noises are an indication of malfunctioning hds rather than surpressing the noises. have you had any prior experience(s) with maxtor drives exhibiting loud clicking sounds? is it the nature of their hard drives?
the maxtor drive in my 1st dell computer was whisper quiet. others maxtor drives that i've used since are louder, although i wouldn't really say they were overly so. using the maxtor program made them nearly silent. i currently have 4 maxtor drives from 1-3 years old, and no failures to date. i also have a wd drive that is louder than my maxtor drives. my opinion is that this is likely an acoustic problem. i've had no problems with maxtor reliability.
...although it is strange that you've had the problem with 3 drives. most of the replacement drives that we get are not maxtor...(usually western digital because they're cheap. lol) we've had a few maxtors, but i've never had that kind a problem. when booting up or running a defrag, some drives will make a slight amount of noise, but i sure wouldn't call it a &quot;clicking&quot; noise... either way, since your diagnostics tests are showing problems and you continue to get bad replacements, i suggest getting your money back and trying another brand. hope this helps. grif
slight noise on boot only. harv it could be a fan noise? have you cleaned them out?
grif, i ran a diagnostic test suggested by a senior maxtor technician and it indicated there was no hd defect. but, why does hdd health keep indicating t.e.c. date of 2/16/2005? :|?
i used canned air to clean out the interior, when i installed the first hd. and, the geiger counter clicking sound is definitely not the fan. other than the loud clicks, my pc is working fine at the moment . but, i am very concerned that the hd will fail again soon, as indicated by hdd health's s.m.a.r.t. readings.
the situation is not very encouraging at all, as hdd health, the hard disk monitoring application on my pc, shows a bad reading (-2) for seek time performance including a -59 reading for an unknown attribute, resulting in a t.e.c. date of 2/16/2005, which means eminent hd failure sometime very soon.
there really shouldn't be any loud clicking...i'd return them. grif
my maxtor 60g is very quiet, there is a very faint sound when it's being defragged, but it's barely noticable. that was the thing that most impressed me about the maxtor when i got it, was how quiet it was. i would return it as well.
i wouldn't bother placing too much faith in panterasoft's hdd health program's t.e.c. dates as they tend to change. if you uninstall the application then reboot and reinstall you will normally discover the date has changed. the manufacturer's hard drive utility is most generally a better and more reliable indicator of drive &quot;health&quot;. i have several maxtors and for me they are all silent. for others who sit at my computers however the drives are invariably noisy and &quot;make strange clunking sounds&quot;. the difference? i can't hear nearly as well as most people. all of my maxtors have been making the same sounds for their entire lives and are still going strong. 7200 rpm drives do tend to be noisier than 5400 rpm drives. vibrations caused by the specific manner in which the drive is mounted can make a difference in sound level also. sometimes the acoustic management utility (amset and it can be accessed here  ) will help if the noise level is bothersome. this management tool for ibm will work on maxtors too:  the noise most people complain about is the seek noise and not the drive bearings as they fear.
i have a 160gb and an 80gb maxtor in my system both making a loud fast clicking sound much like a geiger counter. i had a frend tell me that maxtor drives were loud so i put this down to being the price you pay for a cheap drive, however having thought about it after reading this post i think you may be onto something with the drives being deffective. in my home there are 3 other systems using maxtor drives 2 only use 40gb drives so i put the lack of noise down to them being so small, but the other uses an 80gb and there is never any noise coming from it. however i would not worry to much about it if i were you i've had my pc for 2 years and the the 80gb the whole time, its never failed me (except when i murdered my mbr with linux but thats another story and wasn't too difficult to fix, thank god for fdisk) anyway the 160gb is only 6 months old and still covered under warranty so it it fails i'll get my money back. i would recommend getting another manufacturers drive and maybe pay a little more, it'll be worth it in the end. maxtor is to sony as gola is to nike (dont worry if you dont know what gola is thats the point)
if you can, change out the power supply, or take any one of your clicking hard drives out and put it into another working pc. although it's possible you can have four bad drives, it stretches the imagination more than a bit. i once had a similar problem and it turned out the culprit was a defective power supply that was putting out bogus 12vdc and 5vdc levels. worth a try, anyway.
do you have enough power, is what i am asking. 3 new drives that all click? something doesn't add up. maxtor is well known for being quieter than its competion. another poster said remove one. i would remove two then try it. how new are they? are they new from ebay? drive that were dropped to the ground have little chance of lasting long, although they could work for a while.
i bought and installed a maxtor diamondmax 10 160gb drive last week. i've actually removed it and repackaged it to send back to the vendor for testing because the seek noise was so loud. describing it as a geiger counter is an excellent description. its noise while idle is perfectly acceptable but its noise when performing any operation was so similar to that you'd get from a knackered old pc that i was very worried i'd got a defective product. is there any point in my sending it back if this type of loud clicking is just normal for maxtor's seek noise? p.s. it's extra obvious to me because i've put it in a sff cube pc...
just read this post and download and make use of the amset utility linked to. consider the utility as the equivalent to oil for hinges--if not willing to get and use it the hinge continues to squeak.
i have had been using a maxtor hdd 40gb since feb 2001. never noticed any clicking sound as you have described. anyway, this hdd had its life two weeks ago (could not boot up). i've replaced it with a seagate 120gb and up & running happily.if i were you, i'd return all the maxtor hdds that you've got and ask for your money back. consider using other brands, you can do well without a maxtor.
unfortunatly a while back i purchased a maxtor 80 gig &quot;fluid drive&quot; hard drive. the information on it read like a sound feature. however from day one, i noticed a &quot;clicking, grinding&quot; noise occasionally coming from my p.c. on start up. at the time i had installed several new hardware pieces and thought it was a bad floppy drive. i eventually replaced the floppy, only to find that the sound continued. i replaced a second floppy drive, and eventually my maxtor hard drive locked up. only then did i realize that the whole time the sound was comming from the new hard drive. maxtor replaced the hard drive at no expense, but that didn't help me with the aproximatly 40 gigs of info already recorded on it. my advice: if the hard drive is making noise......replace it. p.s. copy and wipe the info off the hard drive first, (while it's still working) before sending it in for replacement.
the clicking is normal - resulting from head/arm movements during seek. all hd's make noises - but the maxtors seem to be particularly loud. i installed one in a tivo recently, and can hear it from across the room when i fast forward through a recorded show. if it bothers you, return the drives and try another brand. if you are just nervous about it signifying impending trouble - don't worry.
hi harv, i have noticed this problem only in the last 4 years. maxtor never used to be this noisy, and no hard drive should be. i have had some that last a couple of years but lately they have broke down and destroyed my data. i have now stopped buying maxtor which is a pity as they used to be one of the best.they are not the worst though. that goes to fujitsu hard drives they are the worst. western digital are good and i have had no problems, so it is a safe bet. so basically i am saying return it for a refund or ask to speak to the manager and tell them you have lost data and wish for an explanation and maybe some kind of insentive for buying them in the future. good luck
ya... in my dell inspiron 2650 whenever i boot up my computer it makes a clicking or beeping noise... pretty lowd too, but i think its only been doing that since i opened up my computer to replace the keyboard... if anybody can help me too! please!
why did you open your computer to replace your keyboard? regarding the clicking noises. whenever i had a maxtor hard drive that had a loud clicking or clacking noise the drive failed soon. when the new 7200 rpm drives start up they can make some noise but loud clicking or clacking is not normal.
it would seem that the &quot;smaller&quot; maxtor harddrives have this noise thing, 60g and smaller. i had 4 120g maxtor harddrives, 2 made the same clicking noise, i sent them to maxtor and they replaced them, since then i haven't had the clicking noise at all. i believe that since hard drives are getting cheaper and the manufacturers are trying to still make a profit (of course) they have cut down on the quality to ensure quantity. it's really too bad that you had 3 fail on you but it doesn't seem all that uncommon. i would suggest contacting maxtor and demanding they not only replace the hard drives, but that they replace them with brand new drives (they usually send out refurbished ones), and the latest models rather than just replacing the same one over and over. they should send you new ones since you've already replaced them once. p.s. since the replacement of my 2 failing drives, i have had no problems whatso ever, and when i requested they be replaced by brand new drives, they complied.
have used maxtor 80gb (2+ years & quiet), second 80gb (1+ year & noisy) & new 120gb (3 months which repeatedly clicked before finally freezing my pc after a few minutes). now back on the original 2x 80gb hdds & no problems. maxtor's v4.21 test software reports the new 120gb as error free, but i don't trust it so it's next to useless. maxtor won't replace it as i can't give them an error message. result: no more maxtor drives for us or our clients in the future!
get me once i may try again, get me twice shame on me. get me three times, i don't think so. i use western digital for past 3 years i have 1 120 gig, 3 80's, and 2 40's not to mention various others 10 & under. only one i have ever had a problem with was a real old 850mb back in late 90's. segate used to be a problem drive too but have now since straightened up. i had a hole stack of them ranging up to 8 gig before i suddenly stopped running into problem ones. so i'd try them again on day. so i'd try a western digital, seagate, mabey a samsung, hitachi, or fujitsu. i'd stay away from anything like ibm or some off brand and steer away from maxtor. unless you really like giving them your money. this is just my opinion, others may vary.
i have worked with a major computer company testing and replacing thousands of hard drives in computers. the clicking sound as described always signifies a deteoriation of the hard drive. it will not take long before it dies in most cases. that is my experience. the age of the drive or the brand doesn't matter. when ibm first to come out with their 120gb hard drive they died even before some of them reached the customers. they were not perfected before they were rushed them unto the market and that clicking sound was evident in some before they died. replace the hard drives.
this was also my first thought when i heard about this problem. a defective or under-powered power supply can cause all kind of odd problems in a pc - from hd problems to video card problems. three failed hard drives in a row is just too much of a coincidence. ~ken
must be a bad batch from maxtor, my 60gb + pair 80gb are all ok no noises at all is my report from canada bye retired techie keith
t remember that 10 years ago when my dad as building my family's fisrt computer (windows 95) he bought a maxtor hard drive. however there was something wrong with it and he returned it back to maxtor. a few weeks later he recieved his new hard drive from maxtor and everything worked alirite from their after. moral of the story: dont buy maxtor, out of all the hard drives out their, i'd say maxtor hd have the most problems. competing hard drive companies like western digital and seagate have much better packaging and are more relible. my old 8gb seagate still works, and it even came with a anti static rubber covering of some sort. i have an 80gb western digital hard drive (1.5 years old) and its still running strong. it also came packaged with some good software for stuff like reformating and soe tools to examen the hard drive, unlike the hitachi (ibm) hard drive my friend bought.
i worked at a compusa store for 4 years and i can tell you one thing. harddrives go bad alot. and while some of you &quot;savy&quot; users have had harddrives live 10+ years, i can tell you that you are the exception rather than the rule. i stood right next to the harddrive department during the time i worked at compusa. during that time i sold hundreds of harddrives(sure this doesn't include online buyers, but hear me out). the line i heard the most is:&quot;(insert brand here) of harddrives suck! i hate thier company and i will sue them! i lost all my data! i will never buy one of their harddrives again and i will tell everyone i know not to buy them too! (insert other brand here) is soo much better! my friend bought them and their computer still works! omg! i should have bought that one!&quot; hehe, as you can see, most people are really unhappy when their harddrive dies and they lose all their data. but the fact remains, harddrives die all the time, all brands die. how long will yours live do you ask? well that depends on alot of things, how much you use it, temperature, things like that. the old general &quot;law&quot; is every 10 degrees farienheit higher(than room temperature) and your life of components is halved. the general consensus at the time i worked at compusa was 3-6 years for a harddrive living(my experience by customer complaints). that sounds really short, but if you think about how long most people keep computers, are you really going to keep yours that long? i really doubt it. according to &quot;the law of accelerating returns&quot; we will continue to have better and better parts exponentially at cheaper and cheaper prices, so i doubt you will keep outdated equipment very long. and if the worst happens , you do backup your data right? oh you don't?...heh well good news, you can send your harddrive off to a data recovery service. it's expensive, but they can get data off the most dead of dead harddrives. so there can be hope if it is really worth it to you.
the question &quot;do you backup your data&quot; makes me wonder what to do...i read advice that the best way to backup many gb of digital pictures was with an external hard drive for my dell laptop. after the first lacie 250 gb external drive died after 3 months, i bought another to back up the first while it was being repaired. it did not seem possible that i could get 2 bad hard drives from one company. well, not only is it possible but it happened and now i have two 250 gb lacie hard drives that only occassionally are recognized by windows xp. the problem started long before service pack 2, so that can not be blamed. no one seems to know what the problem is. has anyone else had problems with lacie? they seem to have a band of die hard haters at online retail sites. any solutions? even if lacie can fix these drives i could never use them with any confidence.
i recently bought a maxtor 200 gb hd too and found to be quite noisy, i have searched and found the amset acoustic management utility and info on it here
i think the best way to backup data right now would be with a dvd burner(they have the double layer version now too). blank dvd's are cheap stuff nowadays(a dollar maybe), and a burner can be had for under 100$ i've heard of lacie, but i haven't heard alot about them. i would imagine that lacie doesn't manufacture their own harddrives, since i noticed that they make all kinds of things including monitors. odds are there is a seagate on hitachi drive in there. for those of you that didn't know, the crt tubes used in regular tube monitors are only made from 4 or so companies. so it isn't really a stretch that lacie doesn't make anything entirely &quot;from scratch.&quot; as far as if lacie has a seagate drive, someone else mentioned seagate being a good brand in this thread but i'm not so sure. i remember them being the absolute cheapest drive you could get a few years back. during that time i worked in a computer company that did build to order systems for businesses. they really didn't like seagate, because they had complaints about them failing from their customers. but i have nothing against seagate, i would probably buy one. i would find it hard to believe that a company would make products exactly the same for years. i mean their engineers have to retire/get fired sometime right? lol and anyhow, i would rather check the overall sales a drive to compare against any complaints.
this may not be the same but you description of the sound lines up. in previous years ibm hard drives made this noise as they sought to recover a dud sector. i was able to fix this by using an ibm utility that spared these bad surface areas and at that time some excess capacity was used to replace these defectives. it might be worth checking with maxtor what happens when defects occurs on the disk surface and what can be done to fix this. my experience with ibm (now hitachi)was that once the bad areas were hidden the were no problems. i now have hitachi drives with no problems at all.
i'd suggest running spinrite from gibson research. it will really get down and dirty with the drive, refresh all data and sector formatting, and look for cross-sector bit pattern interactions. by reading the log, you'll see how the drive is behaving, and whether there are bad sectors that were either recoverable, or that had to be mapped out. my experience with clicking in hard drives is that there are low-level (servo) problems that are causing the drive controller to re-seek because either the heads are out of alignment or the servo patterns are weak. after all, the user data, formatting data, low-level format, as well as the servo (location) data are all stored magnetically on the disk surface. hard drive disk surfaces can grow defects. they typically start off as point defects, and owing to galvanic interactions expand over time. if the defect is large enough, the drive's ecc won't be able to correct the data any longer - or the drive won't be able to find the sector, or ... you get the point. after running spinrite, if it still clicks - as in multiple seeks per read - that's incipient failure no matter how you slice it, and no drive price bargain compensates for the loss of important data, or for that matter, the loss of time spent futzing with the thing reformatting, reinstalling os, apps, data, yadda yadda. do you work for $2.00/hour? count how long you spend rebuilding a hard drive and you'll realize that a few dollars saved on a bogus hard drive are gone in a puff when it goes toes up. after spinrite ( if it still clicks, send it back. at least you'll have a spinrite log to prove to maxtor what's going on. hope this helps.
it is apparently a fact that ibm hard drives are not available. their production was handed over to hitachi who improved them. having used both the ibm and now hitachi i can testify to improvement. i must say that i still have a 30g ibm and it has been running well for many years. seems that maxtor has a problem yes.
was it a lack of disk manager software? or was disk failure? i use hitachi hard drives(with no problems and quiet)and yes they do lack the disk manager software available with wd drives. however they do have a very good free drive fitness test that will recover failed disk surface problems that ultimately occur on drives.
having used the ibm\hitachi drive fitness test to fix a number of drives (actually ibm drives in the past) the one focus of fixing is achieved with free software. spinrite is undoubtably better in that it can be a data recovery tool as well. but the cost is us$89.00, to repair a drive is more than a replacement drive for some people. but it is cheap for data recovery. a good combination if you need it.
so these guys go and download the amset utility, which changes the parameters of the seek travel in the drive so it no longers slams into the stops at the end of the travel or reduces the speed of the motion slightly so the noise is less noticeable. seems to me the manufacturer should have made the drive quiet to begin with. i have a wd 120gb hd and not only can i just barely hear it running, but the only time i even hear it seeking is when it is really looking hard for something, like during a search. the sound it makes is like a geiger counter, but it is so quiet you actually have to have your ear close to the tower to hear it at all.
i've been using western digital drives in my pc & all i build. haven't seen a drive yet that had trouble. noteworthy, i am guessing here, but isn't the maxtor drives you're getting the ata133 ones? if so, does your system board support ata133? i know mine supports up to ata100 in eide mode. wd only has ata100 in eide drives. sata is up to ata150. my wd drives have all been silent while in operation. only &quot;click&quot; i ever hear is on shutdown when the head parks. normal there.never a noise while read & write.
i too have had one hard disk drive from maxtor which has gone faulty. it only seems to be on very recent production models, however i have found maxtor to be one of the better customer focused companies and i am sure they will replace the drive for you.
i had forgotten that spinrite costs $89.00 for a first time buyer; i've been upgrading since the original spinrite, and it only costs $29 to upgrade, which is a bargain if you need it in your toolkit - especially if you have multiple computers, and use it to investigate problems with friends' computers. but it's powerful and its diagnosis is well-accepted.
as what is &quot;critical&quot; to one user isn't to a multitude of others. the issue boils down to the simple fact that it is cosmetic and not any actual symptom of problems with the drive. a man bought a rolls and christened it sir churchill with a bottle of french champagne. his neighbor bought a continental and christened it mr. lincoln with a bottle of napa valley champagne. another neighbor bought a ford f150 and christened it teddy roosevelt (the rough ridin' sob) with a bottle of pabst blue ribbon. all were satisfied but the f150 is still running strong while the other two spend their lives in critical care facilities.
hi, a simple answer to your question is yes, go with western digital or iomega. i had the same problems with 120g maxtor.after only a few weeks i took it back. the seek times are slower also compared to others. i bought mine from fry's electronics. i only spent 12 dollars more on my w.d. 160g. the noises are very faint now. get the it soon before its too late.good luck the c.
i purchased (2) 200g wd caviars hd's (8mb buffer) and exactly the same thing happened w/ those as you explained. (loud clickling then &lt;in my case, stalling during operation). *by the way, those also were purchased from a certain &quot;egg&quot;centic distributor. they both were replaced by wd and the two replacements were worst?!! (refurbished of course? i am now on my 3rd set (and 3rd time starting from scratch &lt;no backups my fault, i know&gt;. the last call to c/s the tsr tried to tell me that it was normal as well? i asked to speak to an &quot;upper level tech&quot; (which he did &quot;begrudgidly&quot;) and he explained that drives that size ran hot and that one exhaust fan was not enough? (nowhere in wd's literature mind you). he was nice enough to upgrade to two 200g's to 250's. now with 2 fans blowing across the drives and 1 for heat disbursment..finally..a month w/ o no crashes..no clattering.. ebm p.s. sent it backkkkkkkkkkk..hd clatter (fresh out of the box) is never a good sign.
i have long supported the use of western digital hard drives even when quantum drives were the most popular. wd do have problems, i have replaced many , one the other day that had a mechanism failure after three years. i have had a long run out of my ibm deskstar four years now and still going. more recently i have purchased a hitachi 80gb that is quiet and fast. a major problem with ibm deskstar drives about four years ago was due to internal condensation. this has been fixed. hitachi deskstar drives are good. a local dealer stands by samsung drives with low return rates. most local dealers promote wd drives.
i have had a couple of maxtor drives and they are the most noisy drives i have ever had. but i will say this, they have never died on me. god bless! dab
spinrite is a fantastic product if you need to recover unreadable data from a magnetic drive. i have had occassion to use it 3 times in the last 17 years (the most recent was yesterday on an xp laptop hardrive) and it worked flawlessly each time to recover totally dead drives. yesterday i used spinrite 6 on an ntfs partition that couldn't be recovered with windows xp recovery tools. spinrite found the bad sectors, repaired the data and my laptop is back to normal. $89 is a cheap price to pay for recovering lost data!
this link works  regards sandor
hi - just found your post and would like to reduce the amount of noise coming from my maxtor - setacm.exe doesn't really seem to be supported from the maxtor site therefore i am wondering whether it will work for my sata drive?
i have several hdd's which i have purchased over the years (most of them have been seagate drives they have pretty much been retired, or i put them into pc's that i give away to people who don't have computers. anyways, i have noticed the clicking sound as well from these older models (not any of the newer ones) mostly in the range of 100mb (yes, mb my friends)to 1.5 gb. about every five minutes or so, the drive makes a loud &quot;clicking,&quot; sound. i have used the seagate boot floppy utility, &quot;discwizard,&quot; scanned all the drives for bad sectors and such; with no negative readings. the same goes for m$ scandisk, no errors detected whenever a thorough scan is performed. i don't know if this is the way the drive has always been since day one, or if it is a characteristic of an aging hdd. i am a seagate junkie; i still believe in their drives, the 80 gb i'm using now is doing great (nor does it make the notorious clicking sounds)it's the quietest drive i've ever owned, and it has seen many os's during the last two years. anyhow, i know this reply is a bit late; but i thought i would put my 2 cents worth in the forum....
hello, i have had his exact problem with two wd's. one, i am looking at right now, that is just out of time for wd to replace it. i get nothing on a boot except the loud clicking from the inner coiled disk reader. i can't even access it as a slave to recover anything on it. the other trouble maker was the maxtor 20 gig that mysteriously lost the two back partitions. i had it partitioned in 3 for several years with no problems, not even the clicking he mentioned from his maxtors. one morning, no access to the d, e drives. they didn't appear in the my computer listing either. uh oh! i ran a program called recover my data, sure enough, after a very lengthy run, it found all the data from both back drives but they want $75 to say hello to this data again. i have no idea why the partitions became hidden. its never happened before, though i've formatted other drives exactly the same was, even the one i'm using now...an 80 gig wd. i even tried to access these hidden partitions in dos, but that didn't fly either. not even with fdisk. so, i aggravate myself intentionally sometimes as i look at the maxtor 20 gig with all that stuff on it that i can't recover. zeusman tsmith3680@hotmail.com
i've installed three maxtor 160 gb drives (one original and two replacements sent by the company) and all have suffered from the same noisy clicking sound when asked to perform a task. the one good thing that i can say about the company is that their customer care team are very good about responding to queries and sending replacements. however, when the replacements are just as bad as the originals it kind of takes the edge off it. personally i'm not getting a maxtor drive again.
i have just lost my samsung 80gig hdd that came in my new hp pavilion only a year and six weeks ago. no clicking, no grinding, nothing to suggest imminent failure; it worked for my husband at 7:00 pm and couldn't find its mbr at 9:30! i'm using spinrite on it at the moment, which promised to be a very s-l-o-w process (predicting another 2000 hours a few minutes ago) but is now going lickety split, jumping from 1% complete to 45% in about the last half hour. so i have some hope of data recovery fairly soon but don't know what to do about the drive itself. trash it as unreliable? i started reading this thread because i've bought an 80gig maxtor but now don't know whether to even unwrap it or return it after all the complaints on this board. i've been pleased with many maxtor drives over the years, but notice they now have 1 year warranty rather than 3 as in the past, which makes me doubt...
i discovered spinrite back in '88 (1988) when we used mfm and rll drives (20 mb hdd) and have kept using it since on &quot;dead&quot; drives and have had great success with it. gibson really invented a winner with this software as it has recovered several hd's that sounded like coffee grinders. my flatmates maxtor 60 gb was so loud we could hear it seeking from the room next door (no clicking - just a coffee grinder full of pennies). after running spinrite, the noise did not lessen by much, but it kept on working for another 8 months with no problems other than bloody loud noises. it was still working fine when it was put into a games server (in the back room with the door shut). personally i use seagate drives as they have a 5 year guarantee. 2 * 120's sata striped array and a 200 ata. not a sound.
i have had maxtor drives forever. the last drive before this 160gb unit was a 40gb. i was surprised that the new drive was way more noisy than the old one. what happens is at times when the drive is doing an access i hear like a ''clunking'' sound. at that time i get a ''pause''. a couple of times it has done this-mostly when loading windows xp and it has paused for ''minutes''. after looking into it i saw that the ide controller had defaulted to pio mode instead of the proper dma mode 6-which is correct for an ultra dma 133 unit. i have read posts everywhere to try to see what is going on and i am convinced it is some sort of maxtor recent manufacturing problem. what makes me angry is that the fact is most people these days have huge groups of files, and just changing out drive is way to time consuming. w all know with windows xp it is worse becasue of the fact you must have the ''default'' ide controller drivers installed prior to swap or risk the blue screen of death. in maximun pc magazine there has been recent informamtion on seagate problems as well. my fear, and your case confirms it, is to get another drive and then go through it all over again!
i completely agree. after 4 months my lacie 250 gig hard drive died as well. after a discussion with the company representative who suggested using one data recovery service that would cost about $1800, i found another service who charges a bit less. apparently the 250g drive stresses the components so much (which are cheap anyway to keep the price down)that these drives are very prone to failure. lacie appears to be apiece of crap in a slick case. &gt;:-((
a 250gb sata just failed on me within 2 months of purchase of the product. all the data gone.
a couple of weeks ago i bought a maxtor 80gb ext hard drive.within days of setting it up, the light went out. i took it back to the shop and they gave me a replacement immediately, no questions asked. on 5th oct i set up the 2nd maxtor 80gb, and by the night of the 8th oct i noticed that the light had gone out on it too.i returned it to the store on 10th oct and we tried to figure out what it was that i was doing wrong. also, we found out that it was the power cord that had malfunctioned, and not the actual hard drive unit. the only thing we could think of that maybe i should not have done was to leave the unit plugged into the power 24/7. it never occurred to me to only turn it on when i wanted to use it. i assumed it would be ok to leave it plugged into the power all the time. there were no such instructions cautioning me on what i should or should not do. i would like to hear from anyone else who has had the same problems or if they think that it is ok or not ok to leave an external hard drive plugged into the power all of the time.
on 15 october 2005, i purchased a maxtor one touch ii external 200gb hdd. this purchase was based on previous experience with a maxtor 40gb external hdd and a maxtor 80gb hdd, both of which were still functioning perfectly after 4 and 2 years, respectively. when i hooked up the 200gb drive, it immediately took over the drive letter for the 80gb drive and at the same time the 40gb drive disappeared altogether. i tried to reorganize the drive letter to no avail. i assumed a conflict , switched the 80gb over to my other notebook where it was recognized immediately though it was now very sluggish. powered down everything for night, assuming it had been a glitch. next morning, more errors showed up. drives on all three maxtors were not being recognized and message stated problem was due to an i/o device error. separately hooking up each drive to either notebook found the same message. spoke to my workplace info tech and he said this was recent problem that had been found with maxtor one touch. he pulled all the drives out of their casings and was able to get a desktop pc to recognize them with appropriate drive letter but still couldnt open them. found on maxtor knowledge base a description of problem with outside links for help. all 3 maxtors were fat 32 format. seems odd that the maxtor kb states that one of the &quot;most common reasons is using fat32 as the file system in a windows 2000 or xp system&quot;, as i have been running xp for over 2 years with no problems on the 40 or 80gb hdd. my info tech checked out external links and found getdataback (no relation to company or financial incentive) the best to salvage my drives. the program can be run without purchase so you can check whether the drive is salvagable. program cost $120 us as i wanted to cover fat32 and ntfs formats. we were able to save almost everything (7 years of thesis work, photos, financial date). word of caution on getdataback; make sure you dont ask to recover files that you had previously deleted on the drive. the 36gb database spiraled to over 400gb before we realized what the problem was. also a separate hdd is required to feed all the recovered data to. i used a drive at work that was unhooked from the network. for now, i have a western digital 200 gb external where everything is housed. maxtor 200gb has been returned to vendor and i will never buy another maxtor again.
here's a suggestion for windows/lacie users. never, never, ever hot-plug a firewire drive, no matter what anyone tells you! turn your computer off. i mean hard off - power down completely and re-boot! connect the drive. turn the computer back on. the drive should be recognized immediately. if it isn't, you've got problems which aren't anything to do with windows or lacie's drives. could be your firewire card. try an adaptec. also, firewire 400 is more reliable than firewire 800, and probably as fast as most users will ever need. if you have firewire drives that are always in use, just leave them connected. if you have ones that you only use from time to time, make sure you turn off and re-boot (don't just hibernate) the computer each time you connect a drive. i used to have this problem all the time. powering off and re-booting every time i connect (or disconnect) a firewire drive totally solved it. once again, don't hot-plug firewire drives - your system won't find them reliably, and the chances of shorting the power bus (if you plug the cable in at an angle) and terminally frying the drive are very high! i spent several years working in a college media-production lab, and i've seen this problem again and again. trust me. if you're going to connect or disconnect a firewire drive, turn everything off! i cannot emphasize this enough! as for the reliability of lacie's external hard drives, they're the drive of choice in many recording studios and video editing suites, and are generally among the most reliable external drives available for mission-critical media storage applications. i have 3 (2-200 gb and 1-250 gb) of them connected to my audio/video editing workstation. they often run 24/7 for weeks on end. none of them has ever failed me in any way. knock wood. these are the heavy-duty d2 models, mind you - not the slick little porsche ones. i don't know what brand of drive they use in 'em, but they seem to work as advertised. there's always the possibility of lacie manufacturing a run of bad units, as the person who's burned out 3 different 250 gb units may have discovered. however, most people i know, including myself, are pretty happy with them.
the worst part about the lacie failures is the attitide at lacie. it starts with techs that seem tp know less than the usual uninformed tech and continues right through the possibility of returning the drive. the failure happens early in the warranty and it takes many months of haphazard advice until return seems the only option. the time spent trying to get this done added to more time salvaging data puts you over the one year since date of purchase and that is the end. never mind that your discussion and original complaints were well within the one year. you listened to tech support and dawdled in doing so and therefore tough luck becuase they won't even repair it at that point. however, that may be just as well because i would not be able to use any lacie drive even if free after having the double failure. i could never feel any data was safe on the lacie, repaired or not.
i am having the same problum with one of my hard-drives. although i have not contacted any of the manufacturers since it is an old system. the hard-drives are maxtor as well. a good brand. but the system is older as i said so i have no need to complain. or get new ones. i'll just use the computer till it dies i suppose. the noise started just recently while running norton antivirus. i don't think it is a normal sound for the drives to do that. i would switch brands and give it a try. after all you wouldn't want to trust that the noise is normal then lose the drive and all of its info. i would go with western digital. i have another computer with two 10 gig hard-drives. they work great. i run that system 24/7 never turn it off. hope this helps
return maxtor drives! they have had a real bad run of them!
the geiger-counter seek noise that i have heard some hdds make [one was a maxtor and it did fail see details below], i have had work pcs with hdds that made the same noise and those did not fail, [make unknown]. my pc supplier went down the pan [taking my pc's paid-for extended warranty and support with it]. my very noisy home pc [fans] started making intermittent clicking noises for about a month, i knew that this might be the signs of an impending hdd failure, but i [stupidly] thought that it might also have been a fan. however, because of the intermittent nature of the sounds and the noise of the fans, i could not be certain where the sounds were coming from. so i ran a backup, but with cds it's such a pain, [no dvd writer at that time]. so i ran hdd diagnostics, looked at the hdd smart monitoring software, all assured me that no tec was predicted for at least several years, well you've guessed, i shouldn't have believed these [i still thought it could be a fan - doh!] and the hdd let me down! do not rely on hdd monitoring software! these utilities may predict a failure, but failure to identify any problems does not indicate that no problems are present. the problem was that the mbr of the maxtor diamondmax 16 60 gb hdd in my two-year-old pc became corrupted and the pc would not boot, [i think the message was 'boot disk fail']. using the free bart pe based bootable ubcd4win rescue cd, [ [a43 explorer] i was able to determine that the data was ok. however, because i had not sufficient confidence in my diagnosis and the consequences of getting it wrong seemed so bad [loss of data], so i held off mbr repair until a new hdd was installed. then i transferred data and settings to the new hdd using ubcd4win [a43]. the hdd was later diagnosed as close to death [the actual description was the 'drive is failing'] with maxtor powermax utilities from the free dos-based [yes i know it's really linux] ultimatebootcd, [ the bearings are failing [my diagnosis based on the sounds that it made]. i now know that you can listen to your hdd using a screwdriver or similar object pressed between your ear and the case of the hdd, but you will need to extract the hdd from its bay [pc switched-off while you do this]. used in this manner it allows you to listen to the hdd, [it screens out the airborne noise while conducting the sound to your skull, much like a mechanic working on a car engine or a physician's stethoscope]. the sound from the bearings isn't loud like the '.wav' file and was completely inaudible above the fan noise, but might have been heard in a quiet pc. download the sounds your hdd should never make from: - ' - exclude the quotes this has led me to believe that there was a dual failure mechanism [the bearings could only be heard above the fan noise using the 'screwdriver' method], but the clicking sound was clearly audible, but since it only occurred every now and then, unlike the relevant '.wav' file, i was unable to be certain of its origin. normal hdd bearings will be inaudible in an operating pc. if your hdd makes sounds that even remotely resemble these examples [mine did], you are already neck deep in the smelly brown stuff, and the level is rising rapidly! hope this helps pc victim
i am wondering what level of help i could reasonably expect with a drive problem. this wd 250 gb usb drive had worked fine when last used about 8 months ago. it has been carefully stored and now will not be recognized in windows explorer. the computer &quot;beeps&quot; when the drive is connmected and the device manager recognizes that there is a usb device without drivers installed. the windows new hardware wizard tries to install the drive when first plugged in and is unable to. i have two other wd usb drives that work without problem. the blue power indicator light does not come on with this problem drive. i have had little useful help so far from wd. the diagnistics they want me to run can not be run because that program casn not see this drive. how do i determine if there is something wrong with either the power connection to the drive or the usb connection to the drive? how far into checking these things out can i expect wd to go? the web page seems to say if the diagniostic tests fail then the drive is bad and they go no further in discussuing how to investigate the real cause of the problem. has anyone had similar problems that were solved?
stephen, a) can you swap the psu? b) can you swap the usb cable? c) can you remove the hdd from its enclosure? either of the first may resolve the problem. if neither [individually or combined] help, search the forums. otherwise, unless wd can help, you seem to be stuck with a dead hdd, so read on: - i'm guessing that this is most probably a standard hdd housed in an enclosure with power connector, led and usb interface if this is the case, open the outer enclosure and establish whether you can extract the hdd. if so you might be able to retrieve the data by simply installing it in your pc. please check wd website for instructions, [based on model number on internal unit]! good luck!
stephen, please let us know how you get on.
as i understand it, tec dates are a prediction that critical hdd parameters will exceed a level that are considered to be a sign of impending [theoretical] failure. however, the unreliable nature of tec dates diminishes progressively as the amount of data gathered increases. hence it takes any of these predictive applications time to gather sufficient data for an accurate tec prediction. this is presumably why reinstallation following an install produces different tec predictions, since the available data set is smaller after installation than it was previously and hence the prediction is not the same. -doh!
bought a 250 gb maxtor hard drive, within a year it started making loud clicking noises, does not allow me to connect or read data. customer support can only replace the drive and cannot retreive the data. all my data is lost. you spend $70-100 only to loose data or to pay more for data retreival softwares. if you are lucky, you will get you data back. will not buy it again nor recommend to anyone.
just wanted to confirm same difficulty with the 250gb. thanks to the post i am responding to, i will try to find the fix on the maxtor site, if any exists for the the 250 one touch ii. sz
this is about my hard drive problem. i used spinrite 6 to recover my data but as of the moment or within 12hours of waiting it is still in .14% of 99.86%. i just wonder if this is totaly hang or do i need to wait until it was finish. the .14% is just started at about 11hours ago as of this writing...(1 hour when i started to run spinrite 6 at my laptop. i just wonder if there is a fast way that i can recover my harddrive or even my data only.... i shall appreciate advice of everyone...thanks
late or not, a reply is always a welcome thing around here. from my experience, wd (western digital) and maxtor have been great drives during the pre-2gb days. after that, seagate took over the reliability contest. nowadays, i wouldn't use maxtor(worst), ibm (terrible), and wd (bad) in any of my units. these three would give out those clacking sounds, which are an indicative that the drive is about to fail (even when new). my 20gb seagates though 4 years old still work, though do become slooooow with age. at least they're not clacking! i change them when i notice a degradation in speed. no data loss in most of them though, unlike data loss all the time in the other three brands due to total failure when you least expect it. i'm trying out the new samsung drive in one of my unit. samsung do make reliable products, and i'm betting this drive would be pretty good. i could be wrong though, lol. we'll see in a couple of years...
and also you may be starving them for power i would check all cables and unplug all but one drive at a time to see if they all do it buy there selfs but as a seasoned tech any loud noise coming from any harddrive is not a good sign but the fact that you have all of them doing it to me means there is something else going on try reinstalling a fresh copy of the os and here is the low down on halflife(the expected shelf life of any electronic device) 7 years on all electronics and before i would ask any questions here i would contact the company of the drives and consult with them frist to see what they have to say as there is nobody here that can answer all the questions you may have about the drives but the company that makes them can
we all know that lacie is trying to sell it software from prosoft engineering. this marketing method is unacceptable and unethical. here is what their support replied to me after after i asked them for a solution to this seamminly common problem of lacie drive suddedly disapearing from window xp and mac computers &quot;it is possible that your drive has experienced some data corruption. the best suggestion to retrieve that data is to try data rescue which should be able to scavenge the missing files and copy them to a different volume. it doesn't make any changes to the drive at all, so if it fails, a professional data recovery service can still easily retrieve the data. you can download a demo of it from prosoft engineering's website to see if it will work for you.  single licence $129.00/ it licence $249.00 and universal(?) $349.00 get a life lacie and stop milking your customers!!! however i found a solution to this problem (looking at blogs, it seems that 1000's of lacie customers are having this problem. so here a free solution at $0.00 cost, thanks to the open source community (you rock) -&gt; download free testdisk from  unzip, run [testdisk_win.exe] select the external usb drive, select [proceed ] select [ intel ] intel/pc partition -&gt;{enter} select [ analyze ] analyze current partition structure and search for lost partitions -&gt;{enter} next screen just press -&gt; {enter} next screen select [write] -&gt; {enter} disconnect usb hd, power down usb hd reconnect and power up that's it !!!!!!!!
