i really don't want to research this, so was hoping for a quick answer from all you techies. i am going to europe end of june and want a tablet (ipad or xoom) to take as its less bulky than a laptop. i will be taking videos with my flip video camera and want to upload since amount of video is limited to about 3 hours on the flip. i see the xoom has a usb port, does the ipad also? what recommendations can you give me?
&quot;i really don't want to research this&quot; i won't fuss at you too much over this, but to ask someone else to do the work for you because you don't feel like it irritates a fair amount of people. trying to find some answers yourself will usually help you learn more and it will make people think more highly of you. that is all i've got to say about it. anyway, i am fairly certain that you don't have to have any special software to use the flip camera. i think all you have to do is drag the files off of the device. the ipad 1 or 2) does not have a usb port. the motorola xoom does, but i am not completely sure of whether it has mass storage support. the motorola xoom has a 32gb internal memory, and part of that is dedicated to the operating system. i don't know how much is usable.
i should have said, i did do some research and came up empty and didn't feel like pressing on anymore and thought i'd throw it out there for the experts to respond. sorry if i offended you, and thanks for the information you were able to supply.
and then quickly note  in which it's hacked to give you usb host capability. my advice is to wait till more android pads roll out. bob
waiting &quot;until the roll out&quot; seems to be a never ending story. i'm a multiply disabled guy who is homebound. fortunately for me, my town has blanket-wifi ... i don' need no frakking 3/4g. :-p. i don't want an ipad that costs more and has no usb, sd slot or adobe flash, a kindle dx costs so much yet does so little & just 1 to 2 hundred more, sometimes less, gets me allot mores features. i do my due-diligence and google my froogle in research, but for a 10&quot; android 3.0 the date of release gets further and further away, &quot;december 2010, ok maybe january 2011, just kidding, it's february. we lied it's march ... april fool's!&quot; i'm getting tired of it. sure there is the mortola xoom, but the price is really high. i'm looking at the notion ink, asus ep101tc, maybe the cheaper wifi only xoom that's supposedly coming, but i'm growing impatient
you did find that with a hack you got the xoom to do that trick but if a month or two is too long why not xoom? bob
it took me a year to save my $600, the xoom, at it's price now, is way to high. i could buy a laptop for less. even if i put the rest on my 25% apr card, it'd still take a huge bite out of my mothly budget. the only good part of waiting so long is my tablet saving build.
why a tablet at all? why not the usual 399 buck dell laptop? bob
i'm a big reader and with my poor coordination (you should see my typos before i correct) and a laptop is a bit cumbersome to read with comfortably. even large print fonts now are only 20 minutes a day (pc kindle now). they are also awkward to carry at doctors and in the hospitals. i'm just going to read via kindle, check mail, view the jpg's family sends and maybe, hulu.com and games.com. i would have bought a laptop as i do the above plus writing, surfing and publisher. but someone bought me this hurl-it crapperd, and when you make less than 940 a month, free is better and you look for the best bang for your buck. like i said, multiple disabilities: 100% deaf, just shy of legally blind, wheelchair bound, partial paralysis and numbness. after extreme financial & housing abuses by trustees (formerly known as brothers) i now look for the best i can get for what i have to spend.
after all this, the ipad is great and soon, real soon, there will be more droids that will peak everyone's interest. bob
i just saw the xoom wifi-only is supposedly going to be released on the 22 or 27th (i've seen both). i'll pre order as soon as it's official.
