i recently opened the case just to dust it out with compressed air, then after i closed it up and plugged it back in, the led next to where the cord plugs into the back of the machine started flashing green and now it won't power up.
be sure that every connection is in the proper place. is the fan properly attached to the cpu and is the cpu in the socket with the arm locked?
i opened up the case again and checked every connection in there and everything is tight
take it to a professional that is trustworthy and ask him or her to tell you what was causing the problem. remember what he or she tells you.
hi there, i saw your post on cnet. same thing happened to me lat night! did you find out how to fix your m1270n? thanks in advance! ward
i moved my pc across the street to a new house. it sat on the floor (untouched for three weeks). once i plugged it all in...nothing. the green power light in back below the power cord flashes, but nothing else happens.nothing. the geek squad guys confirmed the power supply is good. they assume mother board. any thoughts? if it is motherboard, will replacing with hp oem board be the best bet? will i have to reconfigure hard drive, or re-install my xp pro with new board install? will i lose my programs, music, pics and data files?
same here... if you pull 20 pin from mobo and light stops flashing and is bright green then there is hope. i plug and unplug power cord from back of psu while wiggling 20 pin connector and plugging and unplugging it as well when the cpu fan clicks and briefly spins you hit power button and machine begins to power up then you can fully push power cord and 20 connector in and all will be well until the power goes out so i advise a battery back up. rediculous huh but has worked on two different pavilions now or you can replace mobo btw it takes some time to master technique and i've had more luck with keeping light burning bright and focusing more on the 20 pin as that truely is where the problem lies so good luck and who knows maybe if somebody wants i'll demonstrate it on utube lol
just wanted to let people here know that i fixed my hp m1270n. i bought a new powersupply and things are working perfect now. my power tester is only a 20pin and one 5volt was not lit (but i know that is normal with some powersupplies). i was sure happy to get it back up and running especially for ~40bucks. fyi - when cleaning the computers you should not blow the fans so they spin so fast as this generates power back to whatever it is connected to. you should hold the fan while blowing them.
