ok, i'm going in the opposite direction as most people here. i have a cable modem which is connected directly to a dlink wireless router. every pc in my house has wireless cards, so i have had no real use for network cable in a long time... however, what i'd like to do is add a wired hub/switch to my existing wireless network, but i'd like to do it in an area that is nowhere near my wireless access point. how can i go about doing that? i do have lan cards in the pcs in the area i want to add this wired switch if there's the possibility of connecting one of the pcs to the switch in order to join it to the network. otherwise, do i have other options, or is that even an option itself? so to recap: cable modem - dlink wiress router on main floor of my house. multiple pcs with wireless cards, all with good connectivity to my network. i would like to add a 4 port wired switch to my ''office'' area in the basement so i can network other devices without continually buying usb network adapters (for instance, my dvr or a printer) or by figuring out some other workaround. this switch would then handle traffic from my existing wireless network just as if my network were entirely wired. thanks for any input.
ethernet ports available for wired expansion. if feasible, simply run a cable from there to the switch.
but that's not feasible. the whole point of the wireless network in the first place was to avoid running cat5 through my house, which this would obviously entail. i just need a switch downstairs, where there's a concentration of equipment, some with wifi capability and some without. and also, just for the record, it's also not feasible to move the cable modem and wireless router downstairs. thanks for the response though
you can install another wireless router in your home office. this router can be configured to forward dhcp requests to your main router. most routers come with a built-in switch with 4 to 8 ports. you can run patch cables to the switch from the devices. the cable drop from the other route can still be a back-up method. but you would still need a switch to split the connection with either method. joe fox
don't the wireless routers have to be the same brand in order to accomplish this? i had an old 802.11b wireless router and i tried adding it (mainly for the extra broadcast point) to my d-link and they could never see each other.. i don't think i still have that old one, but i could certainly buy another dlink if that would work.. that would also help my signal issues i have down here as well.... if i knew it would work.
i have an old netgear router, could i just add that? or what would happen if i just ran a crossover cable from my pc into a hub/switch? the problem with the netgear router is that there is only one port on it, so i would have to go straight from the router into a switch anyway
it's not the brand. it's the particular wireless router model with a particular firmware version. some routers have firmware that support wds, but most don't. some routers have 3rd party firmware available that can add wds support. wds example:
maybe i'll check ebay for a cheap used wireless ap or router and see if i can get wds to work..
if you try with two wds capable routers, essentially they both have to be the same (or similar) models. the alternative is a bridge connected to some type of switch. internet --- modem --- wireless router ~ ~ ~ bridge --- switch --- computers key: --- wired ~ ~ ~ wireless for more info, look at the user manual for the linksys wet54g or another wireless bridge from the company of your choice.
