i was given a hp pavilion that has the network card on the mb. i replaced the card with a netgear fa 311 pci adapter when the original decided it had worked long enough. however, i can't get the computer to recognize the new card. i have tried uninstalling and disabling the old card but i get a &quot;code 10&quot; error message - whatever that means. do i need to get into the bios to change stuff and if so how do i do that? i have windows xp but i don't know the model number of the computer; it's not anywhere on the case. hp support told me to contact netgear and netgear doesn't seem to know what i'm talking about. i appreciate your help; the kids are driving me nuts with only one computer connected to the web. (talk about spoiled! when i was a kid computers were made out of rocks and you had to use your feet to stop the car.) thanks.
what you didn't write in your post is if you installed a driver for said card. a clue is this user's review: &quot;easier install driver than the netgear 311 but..., netgear packaged the wrong software driver disk with my 310 (they send me the 311 driver disk). i figured if they included the 311 driver there must be a good reason but that turned out to be a poor assumption. after wasting sometime with the wrong driver i got the 310 driver from their site and install was pretty easy from there. it works very well.. i just wish netgear was a little more careful&quot; they had some 311's too and noted difficulty with the driver install. in closing, i think something fishy is going on here and i'd just get another card. why? look over  and if you download documentation and files, the latest date i see is 2001. this is years before windows xp, so it may be just a bum card? try another make/model. or at least another slot... bob bob
if you haven't already go to hp's web site, go to the knowledgebase and do a search on the &quot;code 10&quot; error message. try pressing the delete or ctrl or f10 key during the power-on, but before windows starts to load, that should get you into the bios. good luck ciao.
