my gateway will not always boot on the first push of the power button when attempting to start after the computer has been turned off for several hours. have no problem starting the computer shortly after it has run. the computer will at times boot on the first push of the power button, but most alway will require two to three attempts. can anyone help me with this issue.
i'd suspect the power supply first, but my experience with gateway has been that they use very flaky components. as a circumvention, you could try using hibernation instead of complete shutdown. i bought a gateway desktop in 2006 and within weeks the keyboard crapped out. then after a year's use the monitor went. shortly after 3 years the system wouldn't boot and gateway didn't have the parts to fix it, so they referred me to a 3rd party that wanted $200 for a motherboard. i removed the hard drive and put it in another desktop i built and have avoided gateway ever since. good luck.
could be the psu but inspect for bad caps (see google.) bob
i did a quick google and found various models# based on your initial one provided. knowing the &quot;full mode#l&quot; or one listed on the decal not badge plate will help. in most cases when pcs can't boot and already provided to you by others is either flaky psu or bad caps. bad caps can also be part of a bad psu. in turn repeated reboots or such usually clears the immediate problem until next time. typically, i inspect closely for bad caps(google for examples and if nothing found, just replace the psu. if the psu is the original supplied, it has seen batter days. if you have also upgraded your pc or added much, that too can make a psu suffer on more wattage demands and start to degrade. to include any prolonged &quot;heat stress&quot; environments, so clean out the pc if found dusty, etc.. all this maybe too late unless the above psu is replaced. for now, i exclude any s/w glitches or driver issues. it always good to be up to date on everything, like drivers, ms updates, bios, etc. until completed. but, don't do this until your boot problem is resolved or you want to proceed regardless, since it wants to boot when warmed-up. tada -----willy
thanks for all the comments. the full model number of my gateway is zx6971-ub10p. i checked the voltage output of my power supply. the power suppy label states it has an output of 19 volts. mine had an output of 18.7 volts. i did take a quick look at the capacitors when i had my case off, but didn't see anything like the pictures on bad caps. i will be taking the case off again an will do a more thourgh look at the caps., and anything else that you guys think needs checked. any additional help is appreciated.
in the power supply and on boards such as the video card. you usually can sniff this out by swapping the psu and motherboard. i don't see where you tried a new cmos battery. bob
it seems your pc is a aio type. these are nothing more than slim desktops that use laptop type components, etc.. one area that make these suffer is &quot;heat stress&quot; and that generally refers to a weak mtrbd. or sub-pcb found on the mtrbd. it maybe a device found within the case, but generally they're ok. heat stress simply makes the overall stability of the pc get as you've experienced not always reliable on bot or prolonged usage. i recall trying to help a similar pc from asus they provide pc for other oems like gateway, hp, etc.., but he couldn't reaily find a replacement part. point blank if you have any warranty, use it. if you can't seem to fix this problem, then more than likely its mtrbd. based, so research the cost aspect of this or repair. closely inspect any usb connections or hubs int. the pc for bad lands(think blown fuse). as for find 18.7v on the 19v ac adapter, that's ok. generally, anything within 5-10%. you may want to reduce the load and see if that helps, disconnect to make a simpler pc. also, i use a magnifying glass to better inspect the innards, it helps. also a &quot;bad cap&quot; needn't be so obvious, a slight bulge maybe all there is or &quot;discoloring&quot; directly beneath the cap(leakage). tada -----willy
