i have an epox ep-9nda3j socket 939 amd athlon 64 motherboard that supports sata and ide hardrives. i am purchasing a new hardrive and would like to upgrade to a sata 80g drive. i also have 2 60gb ide drives, one of which i would like to use in either a raid configuration or to store data. my questions are these: will i have any difficulties using both a sata and ide drive in a raid configuration? will i have any difficulties transfering data from one to the other if i do not use a raid configuration? do i need to have two operating systems installed on both drives to use a raid configuration? what specs should i look for in a sata hardrive so i notice a difference in speed? thanks in advance.
i was thinking of purchasing this sata hardrive. any thoughts on this drive? western digital caviar se wd800jd 80gb 7200 rpm 8mb cache serial ata150 hard drive - oem  thanks again, terry
what are you using your pc for ? what do you think raid will do for you ???? how are you backing up your system ?? why 80gb...when you get get much more diskspace without spending much more $$ ? for about $100 you can get state of the art 200 or 250gb hdd. vapcmd
i do some gaming. i guess i would like to do a raid 0 configuration to speed up my gaming. my understanding is that i do not need a second operating system installed to do this. i guess then, my questions are narrowed down to these: am i going to have a problem running raid 0 configuration with a 80+ gb sized sata hardrive and a 60gb ide hardrive? if not, does anyone have any recommendations for a hardrive? lastly, what steps will i need to utilize in order to implement this process? thanks,
oh, i forgot to ad, currently, i really do not have a solid backup plan. in the past i have used a 1gb thumbdrive to back up important documents and other items of importance; some i would just drop into my second hardrive. i would do this by using the backup utility that comes with windows xp. could i even use a 3rd drive as a backup in another raid configuration?
it appears i do not want to set up a raid 0 configuration; it looks to risky. can i do a raid 1 with a sata drive and an ide drive? lastly, any recommendations for a sata drive? thanks
to the best of my knowledge, you cannot mix sata and pata ide drives in the same raid array. most of the configurations i've seen recommend using the same make, model and capacity drive when you're building a raid array. re raid...help me understand why you want to use raid at all ? sata hdds....take a look at storagereview.com, tomshardware.com, anandtech.com, etc. then look a newegg.com and see the buyer comments on the specific products you're interested in. in real life sata drives don't give you much more performanvce if any over the corresponding pata drives. the major benefit is they allow addition of more drives to the system, they don't require jumpering and they use less cumbersome cabling. vapcmd
as luck would have it....here's something directly from kim komando at komando.com on raid &quot;using raid to backup data q. i've lost two hard drives and had to rebuild stuff twice in a year, so the concept of raid is starting to sound appealing. i only know enough about raid to be dangerous, so can you explain it? is this a good way to back up my computer? a. i have a definite position on your question: maybe, but probably not! before i explain that, let's talk about raid. that's an acronym for redundant array of independent disks. there are a number of ways to set up raid. i won't bore you with that. you're talking about raid1, or mirroring, so let's focus on that. mirroring simply means that you have two drives, and they have exactly the same things on them. when you save a document, it is saved on both hard drives. if the primary drive fails, you switch to the other. mirroring has long been used in internet servers. with it, a company doesn't have to worry about its web site going down if a drive fails. the secondary drive immediately takes over. that could be helpful to you if you suffer drive failures. however, i don't think raid works well for backups. when you establish a backup routine, you should back up your data day after day. that way, you can go back in time to find uncorrupted data, if necessary. let me give you an example. say you have an important database file. one day, the file will not open. something has happened, and the file is corrupted. the data in that file is no longer available. if you have a raid mirror setup, the file on the backup drive will probably be in exactly the same shape. instead of being able to go to a backup from last week or last month, which is presumably uncorrupted, you have only a current, corrupted file. so, although mirroring has its benefits, they pertain more to commercial situations. (some computers, including my office machine, have raid0, or striping. this divides data between two hard drives, supposedly making read and write operations faster. again, i think the benefit is marginal on the desktop.) you should have a backup routine for your data. at home, i copy my data to a second hard drive; at work, to the server. you could combine your backup routine with an imaging program, such as norton ghost. an imaging program allows you to take a picture of the hard drive, which you can use if your hard drive fails. but the image is static. so you need regular backups as you change or add files. i considered installing a raid setup when i built my home computer two years ago. i intended to use it for backups, but i decided raid was inadequate. my advice is: don't bother.&quot;
so i cannot use my ide harddrive with a sata hardrive as my primary?
you'll have to try that one... all of mine have been ide primary with sata secondary or sata - sata. let us know. vapcmd
/bump
...what's /bump ?
