ok. this problem has been ongoing for about a year now. i got a new motherboard, an abit aw9d max about a year ago after i accidentally dropped a drop of arctic silver thermal paste on my old asus p5ne sli se deluxe motherboard. ok i posted at like 5 different sited and everyone said that an nvidia card would work in an ati motherboard. this mobo cost me like 140 bucks instead of 250. i thought it was a steal until it would never boot. at first when i tried booting it acted exactly like a dead cpu because my video card was max fan for ever instead of going on high for a second then low, and nothing would respond except the fans running. i decided ok ill get a new mobo in a month or 2. well i never got one and i randomly decided to boot up my pc from sheer boredom and it booted and i was so happy. the problem was it didnt get to the boot process where the bios locates and load operating system files. it found the os but wouldnt load it fully. this was my win xp media center edition that ive had for a good long time, since i enjoyed watching tv on my pc. well it turns out i quit after about 20 tries of booting the pc. later that week, i had nothing to do, my 360 had red ring of death, and i was talking on my cellphone for a long time. i figured i might as well count how many times it would do the same thing and not load the operating system. if u have seen a windows computer load its os ull notice a windows logo and a loading bar. the loading bar on this motherboard would quit loading after about 3 or four times.. it takes round 5 and a half times to load win xp.it wouldnt boot for 152 times, i counted. and then miraculously, it booted for some reason. after about 3 hours it booted and i didnt know why. so i just kept it like that for around 3 months. after 3 months i got an 8800 gtx oc made from bfg. it still would not boot normally and his made me agitated. i tried installing windows vista 64 bit and i noticed after the first install boot it booted perfectly. however, when i installed all my drivers and software, it did the sme thing. i figured out that if i install the nvidia driver on this motherboard it wont boot properly. bow everyone said nvidia cards would work properly on this mobo. this really makes me mad that just cuz i have an ati mobo nvidia drivers make it not boot every time. well i uninstalled the nvidia driver on my laptop booted and it worked fine for about a week until i installed ntune. if anyone knows alot obaout gaming hardware here, they would know that the 8800 gts has a fan speed problem. stock it is about 60% speed and i usually used ntune to fix it. i didnt relize that ntune and nvidia drivers were not discriminated against by my mobo. it treats ntune exactly like an nvidia driver. the problem is even in safe mode i cant uninstall ntune. not even on my laptop. i dont want to have to reinstall all my software and games over ntune. im going to get a new mobo as soon as i can anyway because this mobo wont let me overclock my northbridge separately from my fsb and ram. this means i can only get my e6600 from 2.4 ghz to 3.46 ghz instead of 4ghz+. i would just like ti know a way to uninstall ntune before i get my new mobo so i can play my favorite games like crysis unreal tournament 3 call of duty 4 and world of warcraft. if someone cannot uninstall ntune for no reason other than not having an nforce mobo or any other reason like that then nvidia should be sued unless they let people like me, who have bought over 3 nforce motherboards in my time, un install their software and not be nazis and not let people like me just play my games.
i'm in awe.
see if something from  is helpful. i've read a few and one of those mentioned a list of supported motherboards. is yours on that list? kees
you write about desktop. laptop, xbox, a mtrbd, vista and xp. i don't know where you're going with this. tada -----willy
my situation is that if i boot on any hard drive with an nvidia driver, something in my motherboard will not boot. if u look at this picture,  you will notice this is my so called loading bar. when it scrolls across 3 or 4 times with an nvidia driver, it will get stuck ad hand the boot process. ntune, an overclocking utility, has a fan speed controll ive always liked. the 8800 gtx, i said gts on accident earlier, but it has a wierd fan speed glitch and needs to be sped up by ntune or riva tuner. if u play crysis at 1920x1200 medium settings and very high textures like me, that would chew up an 8800 gtx after 2 hours, it will get up to 87-90c at 60% fan speed and itl stay at 70ish with 100% for me. i also play cod4 and unreal tournament 3 1920x1200 max settings with 60 capped fps never changing. basicly anyway i need a way to uninstall ntune on my other hard drive so i can boot successfully every time.
if you can't find a &quot;de-installer&quot; routine that it provides(check support website), then see if one is at the add/remove icon in the control panel. if not there, then see if using latest ccleaner(tools section) which provides an un-installer feature for pgms.. other add/remove pgms may help also provided the ntune hasn't corrupted itself to un-install. under the start-up segment: type, msconfig, uncheck ntune, reboot and then try un-installing as most running pgms. won't un-install if they are active. since, much of ntune is done prior to final boot-up, yeah i can see the glitch plus it also is &quot;auto-detecting&quot; feature doesn't need your input as it gets underway. of course, be sure you have set a restore point before any of the above to help recover if gets hosed or back-up registry. you can try reloading ntune and get it done, then try the above to see it now unloads. check also in your install cd if it provides the un-install pgm. for ntune or menu offering that(maybe). you can also get the boot-up menu. hit &lt;f8&gt; during boot-up and see if using the &quot;line by line&quot; start-up procedure helps determine other causes as well. to get to see as line items are started just what is any seems to cause an issue. just another lookee at the problem. tada -----willy
i just got tired of it and reinstalled vista 32
