here are my system specs: intel q9450 dx48bt2 motherboard (bios at 1782) 2 x 2gb of kingston ram (1.5v each) (ddr3 1333mhz) msi rx3870-t2d512e oc video card v120 (driver at 8.43) 700 watt thermaltake power supply sound blaster x-fi xtremegamer sound card nothing has been touched from factory settings and i have no intention of doing so. (i originally had 4x 1gb sticks of ocz ram - ddr3 1333 mhz. i these sticks operating at 1.82v) my computer trouble is that when i boot the computer for the first time after a long period of being off, the computer hangs. it seems to happen a minute after the computer fully boots. this necessitates a press of the reset button. after i press the reset button, the computer reboots and everything is ok; no more freezing issue. i went through ocz's site and i checked their memory configurator. the dx48bt2 motherboard isn't listed at all on their site so i ordered the kingston ram. even after ordering the kingston ram i still get the hang on the cold boot issue. i have also posted this issue on the ocz boards before i ordered the ram. it was suggested that i don't have a large enough power supply. here is a link to that thread:  could this hanging on a cold boot be due to the fact that i don't have a large enough capacity on my power supply? if not, what might the other possibilities be? thanks for your assistance
these additional specs: samsung sata dvd/cd combo drive 750 gb pata seagate hd xp pro 32-bit
i decided to look through the boxes an labeling of the above computer i had built and i noticed on the box of the thermaltake power supply &quot;dual core support.&quot; no mention of quad cores. i know this may sound like an odd question, but do some power supplies work with dual cores but not quads?
is where you rma boards and change make, models till you get a good one. today those that pick boards may find things that don't work, arrive with out of date bios or other issues. the &quot;sellers&quot; are often just dispensers for the boxes and not support. i do not have your hardware to play with but share the comment fix. bob
check the ram placement for ddr3 setting. verify what slots they go into, it maybe for &quot;pairs&quot; like in a or b slots or similar color slots, that could aslo be like in slots 1&3, the manual should explain this. you wouldn't have seen this problem if all slots were used in your old setup. tada -----willy
enough to be ready during post. but when you do the restart...it's already spinning, seen as ready and the system starts normally. try changing the bios for the long or full memory test (vs quick memory test) and see if that solves the hang on boot at cold start. vapcmd
