i have a dlink wbr1310 and hp laptop with windows vista. the available options on the wbr1310 are: wep wpa-personal wireless security (enhanced) wpa2-wireless security (enhanced) wpa-auto wireless security(enhanced) the available options on my laptop are: wpa personal wpa2 personal wpa enterprise wpa2 enterprise as you can see, not everything is the same. what combination should be used. also, should enable hidden wireless be checked on the router. i have had my laptop and router for several years. but lately i am having to unplug everyday to get connected. that's why i'm seeking help.
you've only got one setting for that on the router so try that first. i'd try wpa2 personal on the laptop. if no go, try enterprise. i don't know how to translate that from other terms such as aes or tkip but that's possibly the difference. aes is a bit stronger as i understand.
i changed them to wpa2 wireless security enhanced on the router and wpa2 personal on the laptop. we'll see if i have to unplug everything tomorrow morning. even though i restarted and everything worked, it's always the next day that is the problem. as far as tkip, aes, i have always had it as tkip. i thought someone told me at one time to always use tkip. does anyone else have any additional comment on tkip or aes?
and get a broader view of the differences, advantages, disadvantages, etc. it would be just my opinion that one uses what works best. there's no guarantee that your problem has anything to do with encryption method, however. in my own home, we need to reset the wireless ap occasionally...once a month or so. i don't consider that to be a problem.
what about the psk or eap? what do you know about that one? i googled that one and i'm not quiet clear. the discussions seem to say it don't matter.
all this could be avoided if we know the situation. psk is fine for home use. bob
like i said yesterday, &quot;i will see if it connects tomorrow&quot;. no connection, still have to unplug everything. i guess i will try a different combination. it's got to more of a situation of what will work, rather than what's correct.
