alright... let me run down everything that has happened so far: this started out when i was building an entire new system, including these components: asrock 939dual-sata2 (motherboard) raidmax 450w power supply xfx geforce 6800gt agp 8x (video card) amd athlon 64 3200+ (processor) 1024 gb corsaid ddr400 ram okay, so i installed everything correctly, but i left something out: the power going from the power source to the video card. i turned the computer on, and when giving it power i got a screeching sound which sounded like it was coming from around my power source or processor. i (stupidly) let the thing make this sound for about 10 seconds and then it shut down, and i smelled a faint burning smell (i am pretty sure this came from my power supply when i got down and checked). i couldn't get the computer to come back on after that. i used the 420w power supply which came with my case next, and found the same thing happening (at the time i didn't know this was because i didn't have power going to video card from the power source), but i quickly turned the computer off. now i am stuck. when hooking the power up to the video card (which i recently realized i needed to do, although all too late) everything appears to run fine but i can't get a display to appear on my monitor. i need to know which parts are beyond repair so i can rebuild this system... i checked the motherboard for any spots of burns or anything and found none, but it could still be messed up. i haven't took the fan off the processor to check it yet, but i will do that after this post. i just need to know if there is any way i can test to see which part was affected by this incident: my video card, processor, or motherboard. are all three bad and do i need to replace them all, or is there any way i can test each part individually? response would be greatly appreciated. note: a bunch of this happened in another post, for more info you can read it at
i am not trying to be rude, but i tried helping you before and you never said about doing this to the video card. you swore up and down that everything was 100%, even though i had a feeling it wasn't. i specifically told you to check your vid card and all wires. once again you said, 100%. you screwed up, you plugged something in when the pc was on and probably fried your card or worse. this was your reply to me on one issue confused about the powersupply which i read incorrectly but still... &lt;&lt;&lt;no, i didn't confirm hooking up anythign wrong, in fact everything was hooked up correctly and i am 100% sure on this. the only thing which i was questionable about was the &quot;power sw&quot; coming from the case to the motherboard but i can now confirm it was in the right spot... the power button on the front will turn the machine on and off. so now, i have everything (and did have everything) hooked up correctly, yet i got the screeching sound and the power supply burnt up. so does this in fact mean the motherboard was bad? if nothing was hooked up incorrectly, it had to be one of the two... motherboard or video card.&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; once again, i just want to point this out. good luck, you will need it. paul
well, at the time, i was 100% sure. i don't know how i missed the power on the video card. but about what you said about plugging it in while the pc was on, no, i didn't plug anything in when the pc was on? i knew not to do that. do you know any way i can test these components??
okay, so i installed everything correctly, but i left something out: the power going from the power source to the video card.(( i turned the computer on, and when &lt;&lt;giving it power&gt;&gt; i got a screeching sound which sounded like it was coming from around my power source or processor.) this is where i figured you meant the vid card. do you have an old pc to try it in? i remember from last posts, you have nowhere to have it checked by liscensed tech so, all you can do is my above mentioned, a different pc perhaps. does the motherboard have onboard monitor port? i still feel you have bigger issues with the motherboard and in my opinion, it's not in good health. paul
i have nothing else to test it out on... an old pc but it has no agp slot and isn't socket 939 so i can't test out the processor or video card. okay having the motherboard be the only problem is what i am hoping... it was only $70 and is much better than having to replace a $300 video card. i checked the processor, and everything looks fine phsyically but i know that isn't the case. does it matter that anything else on the motherboard works? like the led's and power switches, the usb ports, the cpu fan, and stuff like that? if the motherboard were fried, does it mean that nothing would work at all or just the parts that are fried (i am assuming the agp slot). if just the agp slot is ruined and nothing else (which i have no way of telling), could it be possible for me to buy a pciexpress video card and just use it in my current setup? i read somewhere about testing a video card outside a motherboard to see if it worked and can't remember how it was done, something about using the s-video cable and plugging it from the tv-out on my card to the s-video in on my tv... do you know anything about this or how i can test the card to see if it is still working without an agp slot? nevertheless, i am about to order the replacement stuff, and i know i'm going to have to have a new motherboard, processor, or video card, or two of three or all three. i'm going to order the motherboard first, hoping that my video card and processor are still good and that i just fried some part of the motherboard. any suggestions?
without a monitor to see anything on, you really can't use the tv out etc...you don't have an os installed do you? i asked before but not sure you saw, do you have a mainboard monitor port? a monitor port attached to the motherboard? paul
no onboard display, just printer port and serial and the usual stuff
as before, it is going against my grain to even move on with this. in my opinion, something is beyond wrong here. the last thing i will attempt to ask you is, do you have an older pci or agp card to test in the machine? i read some specs on your mb and it will run an older agp just fine, according to the specs that is. that would be my very last suggestion to you since i think your motherboard is in trouble and as i suggested before, i wouldn't even try to start it. after this,i will bow out and leave it to someone else, but i can say, if another vid card won't work, it's trashed. either way, good luck. paul
