hey guys, i have a 500 gb wd external hard drive. it was working fine this morning but when i came home today i noticed none of the 3 partitions drives had any files in them. i shut off my computer and started it up again and i unplugged the hard drive from my computer and the power to it when my computer was shut down. it still doesn't work after i plugged everything back in and powered on. when i plug the hard drive into my computer's usb it still detects all 3 partitioned drives but i still can't see any folders on the hard drive. additionally the power button on the hard drive just keeps spinning indicating that its reading. when i click on the properties for the hard drive it shows used space and free space as 0 bytes. can someone offer some insight on whats wrong with it as well as how to fix it or is it just a brick now?
if you didn't backup try titles like getdataback, zero assumption recovery. sorry but forensics on this issue can be done but most won't pay for them. bob
thanks for the reply. can you clarify what you mean about not paying for forensics? are you saying the manufacture can do forensics but they won't do it for free or are you referring to something else? thanks!
you asked for the reason this happened. given the details so far not much can be guessed. while we all know that many of these drives arrive in the rather fragile fat32 formatting your post is void of that small detail. there is also an issue of what happens if you plug that into someone else's machine. if you want answers they do cost. places like  may offer that answer for a price. bob
yeah i formatted this to ntfs after i bought the hard drive. also what would the issues be if i plugged this to another computer?
&quot;what would the issues be if i plugged this to another computer?&quot; same as any other device. can become corrupt, infected, etc. all and anything that can go wrong can go wrong. its just one of the possible things that you would put on the list. how are the titles i listed working for you? bob
hi, it seems to me, a logical problem. please don't create any new files and try some logical recovery program to retrieve the partitions. good luck. regards laura
hey, i downloaded both of the programs you suggested but when i open them it does not detect the hard drives at all so i cannot run any diagnostics. this seems strange since my computer sees the 3 partitioned drives for the external hard drive...it just shows no data.
