i have two computers - one with windows xp home edition and the other with windows xp professional - which i have been trying to network with usb bluetooth devices. though, bluetooth &quot;network access&quot; connection can be made, computers cannot, in most cases, find each other in the workgroup; and when one happened to find the other, trying to access files cannot be established. error message received is &quot;[named] computer is not accessible. you might not have permission to use this network resource. contact the administrator of the server to find out if you have access permissions. the network path was not found.&quot; drive c of both computers including a printer attached to one have been assigned sharing permissions. can anyone help me resolve this problem to enable me interact with the computers with each other instead of moving from one to the other. i have mcafee personal firewall installed. thanks and regards.
while i have a longer discussion i can supply the short question is this. did you create your account on that other machine? let's say your login is &quot;joe&quot;. can you login as joe on all the machines? bob
i have not created login account perse since i am the sole user on both machines. however, the login pages on both machines show my abbreviated name as user/administrator.
best of luck on this. i know many that revolt at having to use accounts and all that but it's not my rules you have to play with here. you could enable the guest account but that's dangerous and doubly so over wireless. bob
i enabled the guest account on both machines and with a persistent tinkering, one of the machines (that with xp-home edition) can now access recognize the other (that with xp-professional) and read/use files but not the other way round. any further help from here.
again, not my rules here. you can fight with those in redmond why a share doesn't work if you create the share, enable guest and it doesn't work. however if one enabled guest then created the share it did. enabling guest is a bad thing. i hope you never experience why. bob
