i recently bought 1gb of ram to install in my pc. i wasn't noticing any difference in the system performance after installing. so i decided to check and verify that the pc was seeing the newly installed ram. when i checked, it showed that the only installed ram was the original 512mb. i ran a few tests, one having just the new ram stick installed and taking out the others. when the pc started, it just kept making a beeping noise and nothing came up on the monitor. when i check the bios (i think that's what it is called)it shows the 2-256mb sticks installed but not the 1gb stick. is this just a case of a bad ram stick or is there a way i can fix it. (also, i already check to verify i have the correct type of ram)
all the ram sticks must be the same.
make, model of the parts involved please. plus what bios version so we can check if that was updated to add more memory support.
here's the info i have (and hopefully it's correctly type out here). i have a widescreen monitor and parts of words were cut off, so i hope everything makes sense. pc - hp pavilion a630n bios version - 3.04 07/05/04 core version - 8.00.10 memory bank 0 - 256 mb memory bank 1 - not installed memory bank 2 - 256 mb memory bank 3 - not installed i installed the new ram in bank 3. as i mentioned also, i had installed it in bank 0 and tooke out the 2-256 mb rma and got a beeping noise when i started my pc. 2 - 256 mb ram preinstalled on computer by manufacture 1 - 1 gb ram pny dimm ram pc3200 184 pin let me know if there is any other info you would need.
notes a much newer version. hp and others release these to add support for ram and more.  notes ddr pc3200 memory. so while you have that spec covered lets hope this bios helps. be sure to double check if i found the right and latest version for your machine. bob
okay. i updated the bios. but still no go. it does not see the 1gb stick. any other suggestions?
they get calls like this and will reveal if your machine can use this stick. i didn't comment about some that can't get the stick installed proper. have someone try it for you. bob
thanks. i'm gonna try and install it on another pc and see if it works.
if it fails there, you want to get it exchanged.
check the specs and/or manual to see just what ram amounts can be installed. after all that's what its for. the manual may show just how the memory can be installed or mixed ram using memory map. your 256'ers are being as ddr slots and then placing a single ram stick just isn'y working, though it may if the ram map is followed or using yet another 1gb stick of ram to make a &quot;pair&quot;. tada -----willy
i have a similar problem to the original post in this thread. i have a dell xps 400, purchased oct. 05 with 2 memory cards, 512mb each, in dimm1 and dimm 3. [xp 2000, ultrasmart monitor, nvidia geforce 6800, 32bit os] today, i installed 2 pny ddr2-667-533-400 memory sticks in dimm 2 and dimm3. total memory after installation: 3 gigs. [3,0024 mb] i reconnected all cables and booted up. the computer sounded an &quot;alarm&quot; sound: 2 &quot;beeps&quot;, pause, 2 &quot;beeps&quot;, pause, 2 &quot;beeps&quot;. the monitor powered up, but no image. i pushed the status buttons on the bottom of the monitor and received a prompt message saying: no input signal detected&quot;---- or words to that effect, or a message that says: &quot;in power saving mode. move mouse or hit any key to activate.&quot; moving the mouse or hitting any key does nothing. the computer sounds like it is functioning as normal, except for the alarm beeps at the beginning of the boot. i removed the pny sticks and rebooted. same problem: 6 alarm sounds and no monitor input. i've listened closely to the alarm sounds, and they appear to be coming from the usb ports in the back [5 in back...2 in front], but i can't confirm that. further research indicates that what i am hearing are &quot;bios alarm codes&quot;. i've double checked and re-checked all my hook-ups. the monitor cable is correct. all peripherial cables are in usb ports correctly. any advice or insight to my problem will be greatly appreciated. thanks!
reseat your video and other cards. have someone else that has worked on pcs look too. bob
here's what i did: i disconnected the computer. i removed all memory sticks, old and new. i restarted the computer without the memory sticks installed. i immediately turned the computer off. disconnected the computer. i installed then new memory sticks into the dimm slots where the old memory sticks were. booted up fine, then. no beeps. monitor works. everything [so far] seems to be running just great. apparently, my computer will not allow two different kinds of memory installed....despite what the geek squad down at my local best buy told me. thanks
&quot;apparently, my computer will not allow two different kinds of memory installed....despite what the geek squad down at my local best buy told me.&quot; my hunch is geek squad told you technically correct. technically-correct vs. reality are sometimes different. there's some low-level tweaking to be done. in your case, i'd think sticking with 2 gb what's working is a good approach.
alright, i took it to my work and put it into one of our pc's and it worked fine. so i took the 1gb stick out of that pc and put it into my pc at home. everything's fine now. for some reason, that ram stick just didn't want to work in my pc and i'm not sure why.
they get calls about this hourly. they know if there is an issue.
i never called pny. since it worked in the other pc and i just switched the sticks, my problem was solved. it may not have the the right way to get the solution, but it was the one i chose.
if it worked before and only ram was changed and now no video, then return old ram into system. if the problem persists then somehow the video got disconnected, inspect closely. once that's resolved, return new ram back in. yes, the beeps refer to a bios error code, find out wht it means to your system, but since no video it pretty much narrows it down. if the ram you brought was the proper type&class for your system, then it should work once installed properly. though you mentioned that you rehecked your work, sometimes the little things do get by, &quot;don't take anything for granted&quot;. tada -----willy
