hi...i m going to buy a pentium d 945 processor, and i also wanted a motherboard, really nice one!!! that can overclock. i wanted help from the people, my motherboard budget is 77$. please tell the make and the model. if u can provide a like it would be greaat.!! thnxx
intel d101ggcl, $72  gigabyte ga-8i945gz, $67+$7 ship  gigabyte ga-8i945gz, $74  asus p5rd2-vm, $77  asus p5l-mx, $76+$7 ship  ecs 945g-m3, $79+$7 ship, less $20 rebate  most of these motherboards only have 2 dimm slots, so if you plan on upgrading in the future, you might just want use a single 1gb dimm now.
not a good idea ...good luck. vapcmd
something like. &quot;speed costs money. how fast do you want to go? &quot;
how could the odds be any worse ... user wants to overclock, he's on a tight hardware budget, and he's located in an area where product selection and availability are severely limited. i'm going right out and buy some stock in excedrin . . i sense a big demand coming soon. vapcmd
had much more use than to test the current limits of a system. those limits are going to change over time anyway...and they won't push farther out. i've never understood the concept of buying cheap in the interest of saving money. i would only buy cheap if my intention was to throw it away....soon.
i have an intel 955x mobo and my computer suddenly refused to turn back on yesterday. my hd's, fans, video card, and mouse serial port are getting power, but my keyboard serial port and dvd drive are getting nothing and my monitor is getting no data from the video card's output. anyone have any ideas? i'm thinking of going mobo shopping today...unless i can think of something else it could be. (i get no alerts when i remove the memory and power on the machine. any ideas on good off-brand boards that would support the pentium-d 945? it needs to have the ability to control my two striped sata2 drives as well as my single sata2 hd (so i think that means i need 2 raid controllers right? i also want capabilities for 2 ati saphire radeon 512mb video cards. anyone? help?
for such specialized requirements. re the raid surviving on a new (different) mb with different chipset etc...my guess is you're likely to be disappointed. let us know. vapcmd
that's a year old. vapcmd
you might be doing this backward. i'd suggest this, buy a motherboard with the most universal socket available with the ability to run the most advanced process then plan to upgrade in the future when the prices drop. if your lucky, and you do some serious shopping, you might find a bundled set that match these objectives. in two years you could be running a quad core for $100.00.
