the internal cd-rw/dvd-rom drive (crx810e) in my older (4 years old) sony viao notebook (pcg-grx550) recently started acting up. if i insert any kind of cd or dvd into the drive it thinks it is an audio cd. if i try to play the cd (even audio cds) or dvd the drive spins for a while and then fails to read anything. i looked under the properties for the drive and everything seems to be okay. i also ran diagnostics and it failed to find anything wrong with the drive. has anyone seen this kind of problems before? any comments/suggestions/solutions would be appreciated.
they run under 100 bucks if you change it yourself. bob
bob, thanks again for your help. i thought i might have to buy a new drive. any ideas where i could buy a new drive that i could install myself. sony is asking for $350. btw, i exchanged my external (drx-710ul)dvd burner (another posting you had helped me with) for another one and it works like a charm.
that's 1/2 the price of some new laptops! nero infotool noted at  and belarc advisor may dig out what drive that is so we can see if we can find a better deal. bob
try  bob
hey dgogoi, i have the exact same problem with my sony viao (now 2 years old) that you did. did you end up getting a new dvd-rom, if so which one and did it work out all right? i'm also curious if you had any trouble switching them out. i took a look at mine, and it didn't look like the removal/installation was anywhere near as straight-forward as with most laptops. thanks, steve
i have the same cd r/w / dvd combo drive and have had a hell of a time with it! from incorrect copying of my files, to not alowing me to r/w my r/w disk, to not recognizing my r and r/w disk, not to mention the failure to play all regions formated dvds. i am seriously considering getting an external replacement drive and uninstalling this god damned combo drive and throwing it in the garbage heap of all the other poorly designed drives and p.c. devices. combo drives at this point in time are imperfect at best useless at worst. the problem is laptops and notebooks rarely can handle more then one cd rom/dvd rom drives, so unless you dare try to find a non-combo drive that will be compatiable with your laptop and not require a+ certification to install, an external drive(s) are your best bet. windows default drivers are often troblesome and very often not compatiable with your devices. sometimes your device(s) will work but not to their full potential because of imperfectly matched and/or outdated drivers (such as the cd part of your drive working but not the cd/r and cd/rw part). uninstall your combo drive and get an external dvd r/w drive (if money is an issue try e-bay or if you prefer new, comp usa is a good choice  . good luck and damn sony and their expensive and buggy computers and devices .
