i have a motherboard which does not want to recognize a 1.44 flopppy but recognizes it at 720kb. since the only problem i have is with the floppy and can not use it to flash the bios has any one flashed from a cd? thanks
i used a good machine to create a dos boot diskette with the flash program and bootable dos. i then used nero to create a bootable el torito cd from that boot diskette. painless. bob
flashing the bios from windows. does yours??? different subject. why do you need to flash the bios. all mfr's say to not flash the bios unless you need the later version bios to correct a problem that the earlier bios had as a fault. with a system that can't even read a floppy correctly you may be skating on thin ice.
might there be any interest in trying to fix the floppy problem? can you select the floppy type in the bios? one physical difference is the cutouts in the disks which must be sensed by the drive. replacements are cheap and dust in the wrong spot might be removable.
i have had great success in fixing 1.44 floppys that only read 720. there is a micro switch on the right side looking into the drive. spray a shot of wd-40 on the little finger of the micro switch, push in a floppy disk several times to jar loose the finger so that it will protude up into the small hole that differentates 720 from 1.44. if the drive is truly a 720?? (they haven't bennmade in many years) then replace it with a new drive, about 10 bucks.
first i purchased a new floppy, that eliminates one suspect. when i go into the setup and set the &quot;a&quot; drive to 1.44 3.5&quot; and then reboot i get a floppy disk boot error (40) and boot up stops.. if i go back and change to 720k 3.5&quot; the error is gone and i have a full boot up. but when i go to my computer it shows the floppy to be a 720kb 5.25&quot; and can not be accessed. i can boot from an install cd. during boot up the system usually checks the floppy, as evident by the soleniod closing and the led short flash, but this pc turns on the led continuously and the motor is continually running. yes, i tried to flip the connector with no luck and the circuit board has pin 1 marked so i know the plug is in ok. yes, i tried a new floppy cable. i am at the end of my rope with this one. it certainly points to a bios problem. i found the exact bios but a leter date on the ecs mother board web site.
bigbill: if by chance, are you using a usb keyboard? they notoriously ignore commands in the bootup mode since the usb function is not accessed until late in the boot sequence. a try from a ps/2 keyboard may change things. &quot;just a thought&quot;
