hello, i am running amd phenomii 3.2 black edition quad. i have atx mid tower case. i have been using the stock fan/heatsink since i got it and it cools fine but is really loud when playing games. basically i don't want a huge fan/heatsink that won't fit in the case. all the good ones seem to be designed for a huge tower case. i would prefer one that sits like the stock one and doesn't stand because i don't think that would fit into the case. anyone have a good one they've used that won't take up too much room but work better than the stock for a quad core amd?
but generally the better coolers are large with large moderate speed fan. it's a matter of trade offs .... cooling, noise and size. sure it's the cpu fan and not the gpu fan ? maybe better case cooling would help. before going further. i'd download and run pcwizard 2010. when you run it and minimize it you see all the system temps. let us know. vapcmd
i know it is the cpu because i had the gpu for a while before i upgraded the processor, and that's when the noise started. i have checked the computer while it's running and it is defintely the cpu fan. my computer is running plenty cool it is just the noise that bothers me, i would like to find a upgrade to my current fan/heatsink without filling up my case. i have a fan at the front of the case and the rear of the case so i'm ok for case cooling, just want to find a comparable fan that will do the job while being silent under load. i will check temps tomorrow it's too late to run that now. thanks for the website have been looking at that for a new fan.
your current fan maybe doing exactly what is supposed to do, kick-in to highjer rpm in order to the cool the cpu. your hsf arrangement is capable but produces noise when doing so. i wouldn't be looking at another fan as usually the fan is geared for the hsf h/w in order to be mounted. even, if you find a fan that's similar + h/w, if its the same type it too will kick-in to higher rpm. while some fans run quieter the faster they go, the more noise they produce. thus, i suggest you find another hsf setup that is capable of the cpu installed to keep cool yet be quite capable as it more suited in normal operation to run cool at low rpm. usually, that means either a larger heatsink plus fan or a large fan alone but still mounted on the new hsf. of course, you need to physically assure that the new hsf will fit and have clearance to mnount. as the other poster suggested, visit vendors offering various cpu hsf's and see what may suit you. the other half is cooling the case better, thus mount more fans so the cpu fan won't kick-in too easily as it maintains a cool level. the extreme would be to actually rebuild the system in another case that's more cooler or better suited to mount whatever to continue its use. this is important, as amd cpus aren't too heat tolerant as intel when temps rise. tada -----willy
easy mounting, quieter, moves heat directly to outside instead of dumping inside case like air coolers and effective. worth every penny. monster size air hsfs are difficult to seat flush on cpu due to their mounting arms, socket adapter, weight and bulk.
take the side cover off.....better/worse?
what was you experience ? if you tried, which ones ? vapcmd
better than stock hsfs and i've already shared sentiments about monster airs. eg. denab and lynnfield oc to signal limits, not temp. watch for sales which can drop them 20%, sometimes bit more.
however, the most efficient (coolest) quietest air coolers are not small. and by selecting those units with good mounting kits, installing them properly and careful handling thereafter (don't drop the case hard causing the hsf to shift or dislodge), the medium to large air hsfs do an outstanding job without spending $70. vapcmd
