three main questions. 1) i'm upgrading some peripherals...drives, ram, hd...how can i know how much power my system requires now and how much it will after the upgrades? 2) i'm limited (very) in my cpu upgrade. i have a p4 1.4ghz and specs allow for 1.8. i came across some kits that state they can upgrade to higher processors (2.8) with the use of an adapter. what are the benefits/problems of using such kits? 3) finally, again regarding my cpu, which is supposed to have a 400hz bus. i recently ran a utility test and the results were that it was running at 100. what can cause this difference? if anyone can help with any of these i'd appreciate it.
to run at 400 mhz fsb you need ddrsdram [ddr 200]. are you sure what the 100 mhz report really means. the ddr 200 is actually 100 mhz memory that gets double clocked.[=200], then gets quad clocked as the fsb from the mch to the cpu [=400]. then, of course, the multiplier in the cpu multiplies that up to run the cpu at its rated speed. what speed is the cpu reporting. if you were not actually acheiving the 400 mhz fsb the cpu would be running less than 1.4 ghz. i don't think that ddr came any less than 100 mhz, so think that it simply the reporting scheme being confusing. now there were some mobos that would take either sdram or ddrsdram [different physical sockets] and could not be mixed. if perchance you are running with pc 100 sdram that would actually be only 100 mhz. many bioses will give the basic memory speed [100 mhz in this case] as the setting to get the 400 mhz fsb. it varies by mobo/bioses. do you have the manual????
i guess i should've included this, but i'm running pc800 rdram in my system. because it was a custom order they left out several of the hardware manuals. it's now that i'm upgrading some things that i've been looking into the specifics. and your responce gave me an idea, so i found a new tool that showed my speed back at 400. the one that was giving me 100 was from compaq's (hp) site. i contacted them as well, and by their lack of information and knowledge in their responce, i think that their tool was more of a basic preconfigured automated responce for standard prebuilt units (which carry the regular ram like you mentioned). since mine was custom, it didn't fit the profile that was given. thanks for your help.
i agree with the other replys, that your reported 100mhz buss speed is not something to worry about. it is a multiple of 400 , and 800, so you are probably doing just fine. it does get doubled then quad pumped to the memory buss on most motherboards. on the cpu upgrade, make sure you have enough power supply, 350 watt will be good. 400 watt is even better if you want to overclock. the newer processor will generate more heat, so be sure you have a good cooling fan and a well vented case. additional case fans are good if you have the space to add them. they are cheap insurance against component failure. no advice on the cpu adapter kits....use caution.
