when i try to connect to the internet through my wireless network the page comes up as an error. my wireless network symbol in lower right corner indicates i'm connected to my wireless router however, no webpage cannot be displayed. this must be some kind of firewall problem but can't figure it out.
i have this same problem. i have full signal, and the connection says im sending and receving packets. i am able to retreve an ip adress and gatway etc.. just no web pages or downloading.. all firewalls on my system turned off. cheers, sion. win 2000 corega internal card with antenna.
linkit is trying to help me but i have been trying now since christmas and have come to a dead end . i will watch with interest to see if you crack it because i can't keep asking linkit and others to help when they must be sick of me. truthfully i haven't even been to bed for the last 3 nights where i keep trying various things but nothing arghhhhhhhhhhh. it seems ott not going to bed but i can't stand it if something is wrong and pc world don't even answer my requests for help
connecting two computers to a router forms a network of two computers. the icon in your taskbar that indicates you are &quot;connected&quot; means only that you are successfully connected to your router. that doesn't mean that your router made the proper connection to your cable/dsl modem. the router needs to be configured according to the instructions that your isp provides for using a router with their service. internet --- modem --- router &gt; &gt; &gt; computers this usually means setting the router to &quot;pppoe&quot; for dsl or &quot;automatic dhcp&quot; for cable service. sometimes mac address cloning is required. don't rely on me, though. you need to follow the instructions from your isp for configuring your router. * * * * * also, make sure your router has the latest firmware.
the message mine gives is it cannot locate the dsl
hi, i face the same problem. the signal from my linksys is &quot;excellent&quot;. i am even connected to msn messenger. however, ie 7 cannot display a single web page. the problem started suddenly one day - i had not touched any settings (at least intentionally). please help. regards, vk
for all with similar problems, try this: go into your adsl modem/router and configure it to enable &quot;nat&quot;.
can you explain how you configure your router to nat? i have a linksys wrt546. other people can connect to my wireless network and bring up webpages, but i can't using my laptop. mylalptop also does not bring up webpages when i am staying at a hotel and accessing their wireless network. there has to be something on my laptop that i am not using. my desktop calls the wireless network &quot;smith&quot;, but my laptop calls it &quot;linksys.&quot; i am considering deleting the network on both computers, then trying to set up the network again. it all went haywire when i changed from a dsl connection to fiber optics. my laptop works fine at work on my work lan. i uncheck the lan box when i get it to my house, so that is not the problem. jane
an adsl modem/router has an address(consult the user's nanual) -  . where you set the modem with details from your isp, e.g. dns, username, ip, password, type of connection, etc. one of the items is whether to enable nat or not. for your particular problem, it seems that your wireless network &quot;ssid&quot; is smith, and your desktop has the wrong ssid. try to configure your laptop wireless adaptor to detect all available networks, or right click the connection icon ans choose &quot;repair&quot;. this may also solve your peoblem at the hotel.
...&quot;and your desktop has the wrong ssid&quot; should read &quot; and your laptop......&quot;. it may help to &quot;enable broadcast ssid&quot; at the wireless access point/router. it can be disabled later if so desired. note that it takes time for networks to be detected, and once detected, to get connected. connection may fail if the signal is not strong enough, although the signal may have been detected.
i have tried the repair feature, but it does not help. i have also tried adding the laptop to the desktop network by running the wizard again and transfering the the configuration on a flash disk. still, smith does not show up on the desktop. it looks like i had better get a hold of my isp. thanks for trying to help. jane
