how do you interpret beep sequence? i am getting 26 and 21.
well as you didnt help us with make and os of your computer, were unable to provide road side asistance:) see were not mind readers please help us help you my giveing us the details
&quot;tip: if you are asking for help to troubleshoot a computer-related problem, please be sure to include all the necessary information (ie: operating system, model number, hardware, software, etc) that will help others identify your problem for a speedy resolution.&quot; my immediate answer is &quot;its broken.&quot; which may sound short, but so is your supplied information at the moment. tell a long story of what is in the machine or make/model/age!, what transpired (i put in a new felt-tip timer) and think over if there is a warranty in which you can make it their problem. bob
since i have located a website that covers them in their totality. the following information requested is hereby provided: i took my backup computer(amd 700/128sdram/7.1gb/98se/cdrw/10-100) to a niece 100 miles away. it is a replacement for her older model which has been retired. the unit has been used daily without a single malfunction for the last 12 months. connected to the monitor, keyboard, mouse and speakers - the monitor remained dark and there were no beeps. brought it back home and it works perfectly. took it back and the dark monitor persists. borrowed another monitor with same results. changed power source with no visible change. replaced keyboard with a new one since the original had three extra features we were not sure about: (1) power, (2) sleep and (3) wake. i had a similar experience last november 1000 miles away. i could not get the screen to show anything in two different monitors. we called a computer technician who sat in my chair and the screen immediately came on. to my observation, he just hit a random keyboard key but i cannot be sure about that. now, i am getting the 26 and 21 beeps.
&quot;we called a computer technician who sat in my chair and the screen immediately came on. to my observation, he just hit a random keyboard key but i cannot be sure about that.&quot; i usually tap the del key to skip trying to load an possibly damaged os and see what hard disks and such show up. i've re-read your posts and in short, the pc needs repair. nothing in your posts gives a clear direction or indication of what part is dead or unplugged, but it does appear to need repair. if it's one of those built-it-myself units, you can't imagine how many have loose nuts, bolts, cards floating around the inside of the box. best of luck in your repairs. bob
try the following website for more info:
it could be bios but i dont know
