i'd hate to think they were intentional, but my suspicions have been aroused. i recently purchased a seagate internal ultra ata/100 200-gb hard drive. installed in my system were two identical maxtor diamondback plus 9 160-gb ata/133. copying the contents of my master to the seagate, i booted up. that's when i got the post message &quot;no 80-pin conductor cable installed.&quot; i tried both maxtor drives as slaves with the same result. i changed the pin settings from cs to slave with the same result. only when i put the two maxtor drives together again did the drives work. is this mere coincidence or is there a bug in one of the drivers or controllers? i also tried three different 80-pin connectors with the same results. no way can i get the seagate and maxtor drives to work together. i've got some data i'd very much like to get from one drive to the other, but i'm stumped. i've used maxtor drives for years with no problems, so naturally i'm suspicious about seagate. any ideas of what may be wrong?
are you trying to copy the entire drive or just some selected data ? what mode is the controller set to ? tried any other controller modes ? re: seagate and maxtor...never heard of any incompatability issues.
download seatools from seagate.com to create an image of your old boot drive on the new boot drive.
that was my question also, that sounds like a copy issue to me, and not a compatibility problem. i have a seagate and a maxtor on the same channel in my system with absolutely no problems. i would definitely try the seatools app works very well.
thank you for your replies, but i'm starting to see the error message now even when i boot up using only the seagate drive. the drive still boots into windows properly, though. i bought a wd sata 250 gb drive today and can't get my system to boot when the sata drive is connected. my system sees the new disk, but won't boot up with my the ide drive. i'm beginning to think i've got a mb problem. i don't know enough about sata drives to know what i'm doing, but the manual doesn't help. it indicates that with both drives connected, i should be able to boot off their cd. but i can't boot from the cd or the diskette the cd made. it's going to be one of those weeks. if anyone has any suggestions, i'll check back. thanks, again.
what is the computer manufacturer name and model number? what operating system? what hd currently has your os on it? on what hd do you wish to have the os? note: what you have seen is expected for improperly connected hardware or improperly installed/copied software. nothing i see is broken.
