hello, i'm planning to build a pc with the following configuration. processor: intel core2 quad q9400 95w (  ) motherboard: miniatx intel boxdq45ek (  ) display: on-board intel gma 4500 (may upgrade to a high end nvidia card later) ram: 4gb ddr2 800 hdd: 500gb sata @ 7200 rpm + usb powered 500gb external drive (wd passport) cd/dvd burner: yes could you tell me what should be the minimum power supply wattage i should be looking at ? .. my guess is 375w. also, i want to put this in a mini itx box, but most miniitx boxes come with &lt;200w of psu, so i'm going to have to buy a psu seperately. would a regular psu fit in the miniitx case? .. or do they have a special powersupply size for them. your comments on my chosen configuration and decision to go for miniitx for this configuration are most welcome. thank you, regards, puneet
of the supplied power supply. specs as in the physical size. now find a more powerful supply with the same dimensions. if one is not available, then external it is, or a larger case.
.. more concerned about the watts than the case ..
that's too small a case for this many watts. are you trying to burn up hardware? i see such a board exists but you may be unaware of the implications of 100+ watts in such a small case. bob
asus p3-p5g33 it comes with a 220w power supply and a low-profile heatsink/cooler that exhausts hot air out the side vent. it can acommodate everything you've mentioned but it does get a bit loud with cpu-intensive activity. these asus barebones are getting hard-to-find however so you may want to look into msi's alternative. also consider getting a western digital &quot;green&quot; drive (5400-7200rpm adjustable). if you want to stick with a mini-itx combo, any unit with a 250w power supply will be adequate. (dell studio slim pc uses a 250w power supply for a q9550 quad core.) as for upgrading to a better video card, you won't find many that are low-profile and you'll have to measure the power supply of your case to determine what replacement alternatives you have. there is no mini-itx power supply standard size.
cool, i love the barebones idea ! .. atleast that'll guarantee i do not screw up in psu selection. as for the graphics card, i think i can let that go .. not going to game .. just going to use it as a media center pc with a 52&quot; tv .. i guess the gma graphics chipset should work well for that ?
the msi may have hdmi outputs. i've used the amd version of of this asus as a workstation/guest room pc with a 26&quot; lcd tv so i know it will work great as a home theater pc. i let my subcontractors/clients rdp into the it to do their work/see demos, and i let my neices/nephews use it as their pc when they spend a weekend.
