i installed a program called speedfan 4.32 just to check my computer temperature. when i installed it and it first ran, the temps were: cpu 51c ambient 37c hd0 41c hd1 39c when i turned the computer off for the night and restarted it, the temps were: cpu 42c ambient 23c hd0 20c hd1 19c i let the computer on while i was out today and when i returned, all the fans were running in the computer normally, the computer is almost silent. with the fans running, the temps were: cpu 38c ambient 28c hd0 32c hd1 31c should all of the fans be running 100% and is it possible that i lost a hard drive because it overheated?
the temps look normal, very normal. without speedfan the fans do a fair job. running speedfan enables the fans to 100% and the machine is cooler. but don't put too much stock in those temp sensors. i get two different temps when comparing speedfan to everest. just looking at the numbers, your machine and drives are well below any danger zone. if you lost a drive it's not because of temperature.
hd a few months ago, and now i am only guessing that it may have been heat related. should i let speedfan control the fans and let them run? what is the best way to get the correct temps?
and it will automatically adjust your fans to maintain those temps. if you like quiet, raise the temps. cpu 50c, ambient 35c, and hd 35c should make for a quiet pc and reasonably cool temps.
if you maintain your system cleaning and just use it as a typical one, the monitoring fan pgms. just report and really don't do much. more often than not, you will get various different status reports, as long as they don't goto to extremes, you're ok. if you run a system more into extremes like gaming or intense usage, then *maybe* the more intelligent fan monitoring pgms. can help but even then i thought very much. if anything an alarm is the best setting to use to get your attention, but typical bios setting do that anyways. the monitoring pgms. won't do anything but report if you don't use variable fans that can vary their rpm s, so take that into account. alas, having good quality fans and large ones if possible help to reduce noise and/or reduce fan failure. tada -----willy
the temps looked good before you installed speedfan. i'd uninstall speedfan. the temps are really on the low side which is good. i doubt if the failure was heat related.
i always thought my computer was very quiet (too quiet perhaps)when i bought it. i don't know why the hd failed or really if it were the hd that failed. but since replacing it, the system seems to be fine
i just want to know what hd1 stand for because my hd1 temp allot higher than my hd0? plz reply
