i want to edit my (boring) vacation and other vhs camcorder tapes into something more interesting and i'm going to buy a new computer and need to know, aside from a large hard drive and lots of ram what other features and software i need. not trying to be a pro, just have a little fun.
you will need some form of video capture device to transfer and convert the analog tapes into digital format. then some software to edit it. lots of choices out there, just type &quot;video capture&quot; into a google search.
here's some combo that works. 1. the haupaugge tv pci capture card.  the go product is mono, but does not matter since capture is from your audio card. you can use it's capture software to get the first step done. less that 50 dollars. 2. a dvd recorder with bundled software. many out there, but a multi-format unit with plus and minus media support and dvd creation software (light video editing too)  starts at 113 dollars. maybe a trip to radio shack for a cable, but unlikely. the host machine for a 2 hour video will have about 20gb free during the work and even my older p3-600 with 256 mb or ram could do the dvd creation overnight. even with more ram and many more ghz of cpu, you still have to be patient. bottomline? this is getting a lot cheaper. bob
basically any tv-tuner card will let you will let you hook up your vhs-vcr and import your home video into your pc. i've used the ati tv-wonder pci card to do this successfully. once you have the files you can open them in windows movie maker 2 (free d/l from ms) and use it to edit and add special effects, add sound and music to create a fun and professional movie.
thanks for your response . . . i need to ask for your patience . . . as i understand it i need 1.
thanks for your response . . . i need to ask for your patience . . . as i understand it i need 1. something to convert my vhs tape to a digital format to be understood by my computer. one solution is the card mentioned ati tv wonder pci. another solution would be a converter like the one from dazzle . . . moderately priced computer would not come with such a card but might be purchased as an option. is firewire needed for this connection? the dazzle 150 would need usb 2.0 which new machines note as hi-speed or usb 2.0. 2. i need software to edit the digitized home movie. this may or may not come with a moderately priced ($1400) computer. is this software part of windowsxp capabilities? i don't care for the supplied windows movie maker. you might like it. 3. i need a dvd writer to put the digitized home movie on a dvd. yes. just back from officemax with a multi-format dvd record that will be 79usd after rebates. very good deal. haven't seen what software is bundled, but it will put out a dvd that will play on the common players. so the price is down to: 118 usd. here's some combo that works. 1. the haupaugge tv pci capture card.  the go product is mono, but does not matter since capture is from your audio card. you can use it's capture software to get the first step done. it was 39 dollars at office max today. 2. a dvd recorder with bundled software. many out there, but a multi-format unit with plus and minus media support and dvd creation software (light video editing too)  starts at 113 dollars. i picked up the 79 dollar unit today at officemax. maybe a trip to radio shack for a cable, but unlikely. the host machine for a 2 hour video will have about 20gb free during the work and even my older p3-600 with 256 mb or ram could do the dvd creation overnight. even with more ram and many more ghz of cpu, you still have to be patient. bottomline? this is getting a lot cheaper. bob
try something like the sony vrd-vc10. it's an mpeg2 encoder and dvd+-rw burner built-in. all you need to do is hook up your vcr to it, and then put a dvd+r disc into the unit and start converting with the push of a button. if you want to do edits, you can still use this unit (or the hundreds of others that can also dump your movie onto a computer), do your edits (i recommend videoredo, videoredo.com), then burn using a dvd burner or that same vrd-vc10 for example. alternatively, you can have your movies converted professionally. there are many conversion shops to choose from.  for example cheers
my answer has changed as the dazzle is not around anymore. why reply to such an old post?
because this post is indexed in google and many people may be searching for tips on vhs to dvd conversion and hit an old thread with outdated info happy?
replying to very old threads usually elicits &quot;why?&quot; other forums are indexed via google, so take care with randome replies. bob
i just purchased a video conversion device from altoedge.com and i am loving it. i thought i would just add my 2 cents.
