hello ... i have an old compaq desktop whose onboard video circuits have gone bad. but i also have an ati radeon 9800 pro video card on the machine, so i figured i'd just use its display output as a substitute. when i boot up, i get the usual bios text and the windows xp splash screen displayed normally ... but when xp continues to load, a suddenly get a letterboxed display with about ten smeared copies of the xp logon (some even look like they are being reflected off the sides of the monitor tube) so i obviously can't read what's going or or use the system. although the ati card was been installed ages ago, i obviously never used its monitor output. would this be a driver problem of some kind? any ideas how i could get back in action, short of trying to replace my motherboard? thanks in advance for any help.
the video display settings. to fix this we boot to safe mode and select 800x600 at 60hz refresh, ok our way out and then boot normally. bob
you said it was an old machine and you'd been using the on board video. obviously there's a possibility of a driver problem. as bob says, set your refresh and resolution to something safe. but, what i'd do is make sure the on board video is disabled and i'd uninstall the radeon card from the display adapters in your hardware. it will show two displays...one is analog and the other is digital. get rid of both. as well, go to control panel /add remove and look for any ati software installation such as it's catalyst suite and get rid of it. download the current drivers from the manufacturer's web site. ati is now an amd owned company so go there. don't get the catalyst suite. just get the driver and install it first. if you feel the catalyst extras are worth it, you can get that later once everything is working. i don't care for it. one issue you could have is if your card wasn't made by ati but one of their &quot;partners&quot;. there were many. time was when you had to look for reference drivers for such cards as installing the oem drivers resulted in errors. hopefully that won't be the case with yours. good luck.
i found that in safe mode my display looks good. but i also found i could set a new display size but that the box to set refresh rate was greyed out. so no joy after rebooting. i will move on to try other advice, such as re-installing the ati card and drivers. thanks for your help, bob (ps, for what i need, running in safe mode is also acceptable, just tedious)
