i just bought and installed ati 9800 pro and it works great in xp, but i also use alot of bootable devices - such as floppys, cd-roms, etc...and as soon as the system bios is done, the screen goes blank and i get a 'no signal&quot; message on my monitor. help !!! i have spent 2 days trying to figure this out. xp professional ati 9800 pro 2.8gig mhz 1.5 gig memory dvd cd-rw 160 gig hd 80 gig hd 20&quot; viewsonic monitor
bob
the system bios is set to agp, i have the 9800 set as default, but i have also turned on and off in testing the bios vga. nothing has changed in this computer except i went from a 9700 to a 9800pro. is there a way to reinstall the 9800 bios? it seems like it's not seeing it - only the operating system is finding it after it boots up. i also reinstalled the software twice.
you haven't written much. bob
no signal means ...no signal. doesn't matter what i am trying to do - there is no signal - shows on the screen the message no signal. unless i boot to windows - then it is fine. never had any problems with the ati 9700. please go back and read the original message. thank you.
if you want to get uppity when i double check an item, then i'll wish you well and not tell you my thoughts.  gives us a clue you can try connecting the tv out to see if this tricks the card into 60 hz so you can flash the board's bios back to stock. i can only guess you had tried to overclock the board with that other bios. but that's just me guessing. bob
you're right, i am a little upset, but not at you or anyone trying to assist. i am sorry if i sounded harsh in my last posting. it wasn't meant personally.
i also understand people getting a little tense. and i'll pitch in where i can. as it stands, this is the only trick i know of so far. bob
i am wondering if, because the radeon card has both analog and digital outputs, this might be a factor. also, does your monitor have both analog and digital inputs? if the above are true, i would try some cable swapping and/or input selection from the monitor itself to see if you can get a screen from an alternate boot device.
since i just added a new card(ati), this is fresh in my memory. something very simple, but people do forget. you did remove the 9700 in manager before shutting down and changing out the cards. fwiw chuck
