i posted this on a different forum and then came across the networking forum- any help would be appreciated thanks: &quot;i have two computers, and i use linksys b wireless broadband router to connect computer #2 to the internet from computer #1. comp #1 is my primary cpu and i do not use comp #2 that often. i am going to be purchasing a new printer primarily for photos and will connect it to comp #1 and take my old printer and use it with comp #2. now, comp #2 is on a different level on the house. i plan on networking the two computers, so i can send a print job (documents etc.) to the comp #2 printer. here is my question- is it possible to have the computer in power save mode and still send a print job to the computer? by sending a print job, will the computer wake up and then print?? my printer turns on by itself when a print job is sent to the printer. since i use comp #2 very infrequently, i don't want to keep it on all the time- i would prefer to leave it on powersave mode. is what i am suggesting on doing feasible??? i've never really networked computers except for internet access so i am very naive in this area. thanks for any help and suggestions!&quot;
unless the os is running on the remote pc, it's not going to be able to respond automatically to a print command but i'm not sure what you mean by power saving mode. anything like standby or hibernate is not going to work. it might be possible use a wol (wake on lan) scheme but these are rather tricky and, in my limited experience with them, a bit flaky too...that's the best i can describe these as i've only used them with nas hardware. you can certainly just turn off the monitor and leave the pc running...perhaps even allow the hd to power down, but i have to wonder if another option might be just to use a network print server. the downside of these is finding compatibility between printer and server. they don't all work gracefully. but, if that's an option, you can leave the other pc off and it will still have access to the printer when you do turn it on. good luck.
by power saving mode, i really meant sleep mode. if this doesn't work, can i send a print job to the computer when it is off, or in sleep mode and then print it when i wake or turn the computer on? i am still not even sure how i network computers so i am probably jumping the gun here- but this is the reason why i want to network- so i would want to make sure it is possible before i go through the work of trying to figure out how to network. thanks for your help!
it may remain as a pending print job from the originating pc and keep trying but this might tie up other print processes. so, no, sending a print job to a sleeping pc isn't going to work. it needs to be on and ready to act as a print server. again, a network type print server is another option but you need to check printer compatibility with these first. if you put together a network and want to share printers, having the printers on the network via servers (external or internal) is really the best way to go. btw, you'd still need to have your printer turned on using the remote pc as a server and it would be consuming a small bit of power anyway.
