i bought this epson stylus cx4700 all in one a week ago. it can do everything (print, black&white copy, color copy, graysclae scan) epcept color scanning. when i tried it, it displays the message &quot;cannot properly communicate with the scanner. make sure the scanner is on, properly connected, andproperly set up to scan. if using a scsi connection, restart your computer.&quot; (but i have connected it properly for sure!) then, if i want to use it again, whatever print,scan, or copy, i must turn off and turn it on again to use it. i thought it might has a problem with the usb. but i don't sure. i use microsoft windows xp pro 2002 sp2. could anyone help me? thanks.
is not recognized. did you install the associated software and reboot? it yes, check in device manager to see if the device is detected properly. again, if yes, then look on the epson site for updated drivers or software. here:
hi shinyame, like you, i just bought cx4700 3 weeks ago. everything works except the scanner. i tried everything, reinstalling the software, download latest software and driver, etc, but to no avail. both my laptops having the same problem. i searched and googled and finally i found another forums where some people was having problem with their usb scanner (not epson) and some one suggested that the usb cable might be the problem. the usb1.1 cable doesn't have a good shielding compared to the usb2.0. today, i went back to the shop and specifically requested a usb2.0 cable. they gave me a usb cable from cooler master. on the back of the package it says it's usb1.1 and usb2.0 compatible and it has emi shielding. after i plugged it in, the scanner works perfectly. i hope this works for you. good luck. tian
i had the same problem with my epson all in one dx4200 device. i could copy and print but not scan. i have tried everything, from removing background processes, to playing with control panel, getting a new cable, chatting with epson etalk support etc. nothing worked. then i installed one usb card on one of my pci slots. it worked. it's not the usb ports that have problems, because i use microsoft wireless mouse on it and a usb card reader which work fine, but those epson drivers which were definately poorely written.
