hey everyone. i've run into a bit of a problem. couple weeks back, my computer's ram started having issues. ran memtest on it; one of the modules was broke, not sure which, and corsair wanted both modules back for an rma so it didn't really matter. anyway, got my replacements today; the exact same module i was using before, only new and not broken, installed them, but now i've got a 'cannot find signal' on my monitor. any ideas what happened? i should also note that it worked fine for nearly nine months before the ram went bad and now i'm here. asus p8b75-m/csm micro atx intel motherboard corsair vengeance 8gb (2 x 4gb) 240-pin ddr3 sdram ddr3 1600 (pc3 12800) intel core i7-2700k 3.5ghz (3.9ghz turbo) lga 1155 quad-core desktop processor evga geforce gtx 560 se (fermi) 01g-p3-1464-kr video card
try that as well as trying one stick at a time and checking that all boards are well seated.
my motherboard does indeed have onboard video. i tried unplugging my graphics card and using the onboard video and still no video. i removed one module of my ram, since i've got a v8 cooling fan for my processor stuffed inside my case; and it blocks one of the modules of memory from being removed, meaning that one is quite snug inside it's slot. no video using just that module.
any signs of life?
no signs of life on the single module stuck under the v8 fan; i'd hate to rip the fan out, just to unplug the module, put the fan all back together again, test it, and then have to tear it all apart once more if it turns out that's not the problem, though.
and sorry but i can only guess the usual. there is another item that repeats a lot on home built units. the builder has left an extra mounting stud under the motherboard. it's been a good money maker for the shop as the home builder can't believe that so they bring it in. if it didn't fry the board, cheap for us to correct. bob
it's a bit late for me to want to pull the fan and cpu apart right now, but i can only figure there's probably something wrong with the dimm under the v8, since i pulled the other piece out, but the usual start-up beeps that occur on a normally-functioning system are missing. if i can't troubleshoot tomorrow evening i'm going to have to take it in to a shop.
i've been toying with it today and its not that there's no video; the computer is failing to boot. any help/feedback is appreciated.
and i can't tell if it is getting to post or you mean a boot to windows. either way your average builder usually dismisses the extra mounting stud until it happens to them. the shops my buddies work at love finding that one. and you can bet the owners will exclaim &quot;it worked before.&quot; bob
what's the purpose of the extra mounting stud? the computer turned on and would bsod every 28 or 30 hours before i replaced my ram. corsair required me to send in my malfunctioning ram sticks before i was able to get replacements. i plugged in my replacements, put the v8 back on my processor since the v8 covers my ram slots on the motherboard. and now it won't boot. doesn't get to windows. everything turns on, i can hear the hdd spinning, motherboard light is on, all the fans start up, but the typical booting noises from the internal speaker are missing and the monitor never registers a video signal. i tried pulling out my pci-e video card, with both sticks of ram in; pulled one stick out; then swapped. nothing worked. tried each stick with the video card plugged in and no difference there either.
so they can remove it and hope the motherboard is ok. my comment here is not saying that's it but given the clues it's one of the items i look for. my other comments are what the owners usually say. my buddies smile, take in the pc and don't try to make them feel bad about it. your choice to look into this. bob
some folks think that using the &quot;windows shut down&quot; or the power button on the case removes power from the machine........not. the mobo is hot! i hope you did not replace parts with a hot mobo.
once in awhile you read where they left the power attached or on.
i my computer had been turned off and without power supply for four hours, if not longer when i initially removed the faulty ram. by the time i received replacement ram, my computer had been sitting, turned off, without power supply for two weeks. i don't think i need to worry about that. however, when i took it into a shop this morning; the guy told me my mobo had still managed to short itself and i'm in need of a new one -.-
