hi, i have 2 imacs at home, a g4 and a g5. i love them. i now need to buy a lap top for my work. the question is, should i buy a windows or a mac. i would love to get a mac, but i am concerned that at this time, some programs will not run on it (and it is work related..) , even given the new boot camp software. advice ? ??? thanks, galit.
i understood, i could be wrong, that using boot camp allowed windows to run as windows. have you done any research into the feasibility of running your particular program(s) on a mac running windows? there is also a utility called parallel which also allows windows to run on a mac. armed with a copy of your program, head off to your local apple store/reseller and ask them to test it for you. they should be happy to do so. let us know how you get on p
i don't have a specific program that i am currently running on windows. i'm just worried that at some point i will need to run a business related program that will not work on the mac...
and worry when it became necessary. at that point, you could fire up windows and go for it. life is too short to worry about things that &quot;might happen, maybe&quot;. besides, murphy's law says that if you get the windows machine, there will never be a windows specific program required for work. i have not heard of any programs not running under boot camp, you would have to be specific to find that out. p
i feel it would depend on your line of work. if you work in the corporate world, then i would suggest getting a laptop from dell or hp or some other company. if your line of work is more informal or more personal, like you work by yourself or use the laptop as more of a personal computer while doing some work on it, i would suggest the apple laptop. it doesnt really matter about the software running on the computer anymore, unless its a very complicated software, more software is able to run on both types of laptops. all computers can run windows now, but in the corporate world, its better to have a windows based pc. an apple based pc is more simple and personal, but can also dualboot to windows for running additional programs.
you are very quick to down the mac os x, for some reason, which is something that is normally found in someone who has never used it and has no experience of the os. why, exactly, is it better to have a windows based pc in the corporate world, rather than having a mac? after all, you did say in another post that all computers can run windows now. so a mac running windows would be the same as any other machine running windows, is that right? if not, why not. ''an apple based pc is more simple and personal'', what exactly does that mean? you have first hand information that you would like to qualify that statement with? go ahead, we're listening p
