hi everyone - i am hoping i don't have a unique problem but i feel that i do. here is my situation. i had been running a linksys wrt54g as a router on my home network. included on that network i also was running several panasonic bl-c130(1) ip cameras so i could keep an eye on things while at work. well i outgrew the linkysys, was having some slowness issues so i purchased a new netgear wndr 3700 router, great router very fast compared to my linksys. so here is where the problem comes in. the panasonic cameras only support wep encryption or no encryption which is not really an good option. my netgear router does not support wep. so i have been trying to setup both routers on my single internet connection, using the linksys solely for the cameras. i've tried chaining the routers together (internet to the netgear internet port - cable from netgear port to linksys internet connection as well as lan port), making sure the wireless channels are not overlapping, turning off dhcp on the linksys, turning off wep encryption on the linksys (again not a good option), etc. still not working. so i am wondering if i am over-thinking this. can i just take the internet connection from my cable modem, send it through a small switch and then 1 cable to the netgear internent connection and 1 cable to my linksys internet connection?? essentially running 2 seperate routers/networks off a single cable modem connection. if not, i've been looking into changing the firmware on the linksys with dd-wrt or other similar 3rd party firmware. thanks in advance for any and all help.
and about page 38 shows it still does wep. i own the 3800 and it can do wep. as to chaining, google this phrase. &quot;how to use a router as a wap&quot; as to your question &quot;can i just take the internet connection from my cable modem, send it through a small switch&quot; the answer is yes but it is costly. the last time someone did that if your cable bill for internet was 50 bucks, the second ip would add 50 a month, and so it. so yes, but you pay! so here we are with your statement &quot; my netgear router does not support wep. &quot; and the documents disagree. bob
hi bob, thanks so much for your reply. wow, internet bill doubles??!! i won't be going that route also, thank you so much for spotting that in the manual. i read through that document and there are 2 places that wep is mentioned but still i look at the screen and there is no where that i see wep. my hunch was that you are right so i investigated futher. so in order to use wep, which is not mentioned in the document, is the following. i am going through the trouble in case someone else needs to do so. advanced tab -&gt; setup -&gt; wireless setup and under wireless network 2.4ghz change the mode to 'up to 54mps'. once that is done wep is revealed! so thanks again as you spurred me on into finding this though investigation.
it's not that great a speed loss. i've had to limit some wifi spots to 802.11g mode and speed and while it is slower, it's not so bad. that 300 speed is under the best of circumstances. bob
hi bob, yes, i agree that there is very little difference in the speed. i did a speedtest for reference and the amount was unnoticeable. i did get everything working as well. i renamed the ssid from default to a different one and it started working immediately. so all is good. i wanted to thank you again for your interaction. have a good one!
