i want to upgrade my mother board because i have found that i have an off brand and i would like to upgrade my video card. i don't however want to have to buy new memory or a processor. i have an intel pentium 2.6 ghz processor. and i have ddr sdram. does anyone know what mother board i could get. can ddr and ddr2-dimm ram run in the same motherboard?
no. there are boards that have both type sockets but none allow installing more than 1 type. bob
ok so is ddr sdram the same as just ddr? when i am looking for motherboards.
you can narrow it down with the pin count and form factor. bob
what motherboard do you already have? what video card do you already have? what do you want to be able to do with the new video card? download and run cpu-z (cpuid.com) to learn the manufacturer name and model number of your current motherboard. you should have a socket 478 cpu with a northwood core (confirm this with cpu-z). that means you need to start your search by looking at socket 478 motherboards that support a p4 (not just core solo or core duo cpus). i only knew of three socket 478 p4 motherboards that had a pci express slot, they weren't the greatest boards, and they are getting difficult to find these days. you should still be able to find some good boards with i865 or i875 chipsets and agp 8x video slots. another option that will allow you to keep your ddr memory is to move to a socket 939 amd cpu & motherboard; but, if you are going to spend that much money, i'd just bite the bullet and build a complete core 2 duo system.
got to this site via google. hope someone can help. thanks in advance. my dell dimension 2350 cannot be upgraded to accept a x16 pci express. i plan to build my own via tiger or egg. my question is: after removing the hard drive, floppy and cd r/w, will i be able to place them in any atx case, or does it have to be a micro atx. also, will the hard drive (with my windows xp be automatically usable in the new machine? it was preloaded on the dell. it didn't come with its own os disk--just a restore disk. tx dd
