i really know nothing about the &quot;mechanics&quot; of my computer, it is about 5 years old, and does need updating but still works fast enough for browsing the internet. the other day when i went to turn it on, there were sparks and smoke came out of the tower, where the fan is on the back. i opened it up to see if i could tell what got fried. i can only tell that the box inside that houses the fan, on -off switch and where i plug the tower into the wall, smells heavily like the smoke. nothing else &quot;looks&quot; damaged. is this power box replacable?can it be changed out??it seems like it would be faily easy to unscrew it from the tower and put a new one in , but my computer is custom built, the company that made it is out of buisness now. i just dont know if its worth it to take it to someone for 100 bucks an hour if im going to need a whole new computer anyway. obviously there are things on the hard drive id like to get off, and pictures.. i just wanted some help deciding whats best to do.
sounds like the power supply. yes, it's replaceable like you surmise, and easy. custom built or off the shelf, they all have basically the same connections to the system board and drives. pull the supply and take it to a good computer store. reason being so you can match the leads with what is available. they are all generally the same, just do this to make sure. a good supply of 300 or more watts is around fifty bucks. my next concern would be that the failure may have caused spikes toward the system board. the only way to test this is to install the new supply and try a boot. if it fails, the board is probably toast, or a component like the processor, memory, or one of the drives. if this is the case it's time for a new pc. good luck, telephony facts, analog/digital explained. see the cnet faces behind the posts. download free software. if you're reading this, thank a teacher. if you're reading this in english, thank a u.s. soldier.
its hard to know for sure, but it sounds like your power supply may be the problem. you can buy one comparable to what you have and install it yourself, just pay attention to everything you disconnect from the motherboard on its way out. you're only talking about a couple of connections and securing the supply to the board. its really fairly straightforward. if it works, great. if not, you've not spent much trying to salvage your system. hope this helps. ls
hmm.. a device could be melting.. not likely though... if that is the case, a virus has severely damaged something
when they go, they do sometimes blow up. an older computer like yours might have a different type of power supply than most of the newer systems. check the cords inside the computer that plug into the motherboard. if there are two connecters side by side, then you have what is called an at power supply, if it is one solid connector it is an atx power supply. those designations relate to the type of case by the way. another quick way to tell is if you have audio, modem, printer, and serial connectors built into the motherboard. if there are several of those built right into the motherboard it is probably an atx motherboard which means you have an atx power supply, but still check the connectors. at is the older type and will be harder to find, i would also find someone who knows something about computers to hook it up for you since it can go in the wrong way. if it is atx then just buy one and hook it up, make sure its in the right direction, but that shouldn't be an issue. then you just hope the old one didn't fry anything else when it. went.
you did not say what kind of computer you have. name brand or custom. some name brands have a non standard ps size, like some emachines have a small 120 watt supply and there are a few others like that. so you will have to do some fact finding to get the correct one. hopefully the other parts are ok, but the only way to find out is get a new ps and see what happnes. john
