i'm interested in purchasing a netbook for school some light school use, basically for documents, web-browsing, and email. i would like it to have the following: approximately 10&quot; display solid state harddrive wireless g at least 1 gb of memory, maybe 2 depending on price metal chassis distro of linux installed so i don't have to pay for windows/office (i already have some experience with ubuntu and suse...&quot; also, the larger the keyboard the better... any suggestions would be appreciated. i've tried looking for several hours and haven't found anything that appeals to me. also, i'm not in a terrible rush so if there's something that may be coming out in the near future i can wait. thanks
the acer aspire one with xp, 1gb ram, 160gb hard disk. acer will roll out the 10.1 inch any day now and it's all of 350 on amazon.com you can install open office and you're done. my acer netbook is very nice and i'd buy that again. who has a metal chassis? bob
along with linux. there is enough cheap or free software out there for each platform.
do you need an ssd drive?
i would prefer one because it won't need to be larger than 16 or 20 gb and i'm more concerned about speed and battery life. also, this netbook will be in my bookbag, so it may get jarred a bit. if i have a standard hd i won't have to worry so much about scrambled data.
i do know that the hp mininote, i think the 2100 version (whichever one is for business) has a metal chassis.
the benchmarks i used found them to be much like your common horse race. depends on what you are doing. i went with the 160gb hard disk. it's super. bob
so far there are no netbooks that will survive abuse or riding in a backpack with 50 pounds of books crushing the laptop. in your case, do not buy anything without insurance for even &quot;abuse.&quot; bob
well i'll be more careful with the netbook in my bag. i just want something a tad more rugged. that little asus eee seems to be pretty tough, here's a torture test.  how is the keyboard on your acer and how long do you typically use it in a session? what about compared to a full sized keyboard?
no complaints here. however i do use the logitech v450 nano mouse so i can't tell you if the mouse pad is any good. bob
