hello, i found some information on this forum that helped me identify the cause of a very annoying alarm sounds my pc recently started to make when playing games and running a lot of applications at once. thank you. i installed speedfan and find that my gpu lowest temp is 135 degrees f and my cpu lowest temp is 125 degrees f. i cleared some dust out of the vents and am keeping the door open, but the temps won't go down. the side fan is working fine, and the rear fan seems a bit slow, but it's working. i can't get to look at the video card fan right now. any ideas on why my pc is running so hot? it's driving me nuts! tia
you must thoroughly clean and brush and blow out the fans to be 100% sure they're working. inspect all fans everywhere and in some system cases, clean out the frt. panel &quot;inlets&quot; of any dust bunnies as well. you mentioned you didn't check the video card, do so now. once all this has been done, then recheck your temps for results. some fans do work but can be &quot;lugging down&quot; and aren't 100% effective, so be sure if that's the case, replace fan of similar type. don't take anything for granted, check it. if you had this system for some time, the cpu glob may have be done in, replace with arctic silver to better cool, google for thier help. you can replace just replace case fans if in thought because some are so cheap that they've become gummed-up due to dust and no amount of cleaning brings them back for long. tada -----willy
hey willy - thanks for the advice. i grabbed a can of air from work and blew it all over the 3 pc fans and the video card. system still runs hot (144 f right now), but 20 degrees below alarm level. i have an alienware area-51 5100 system built in january 2004 with dual pentium 4 3.4gh processors and an nvidia geforce 6800 ultra video card. i think it has always run a bit hot. i am not familiar with arctic silver. i am an old hand at replacing video cards and ram, and even a hard drive or two, but i don't know quite what a &quot;cpu glob&quot; is. sorry for being a dork! any advice/tips would be most welcome. thanks, lisa
type arctic silver into google.com also this phrase: -&gt; how do i apply cpu heatsink compound?
what's each fans cfm and what direction are they blowing ? i've got an old p4 running right now at 29c and an amd 4800+ running a query with both cores showing 30c each. vapcmd
get a vga cooler if you have an extra slot, tigerdriect sells case fans in kits (comes with two or three fans) and get a really nice cpu cooler and apply new compound on your processor. gaming is very hard on your pc components keeping them cool will help them last longer, if you don't you will have to spend another grand or more on a pc instead of $50 for cooloing supplies. bigboy
thanks to all of you for your recommendations. i did research arctic silver and i can't wait to try it! for the short term, i ordered a &quot;thermaltake tmg nd2 video card / gpu cooler cl-g0078, for nvidia 6800.&quot; that hopefully will channel some hot air out of the chassis. my raid 1 drive crashed last year and i could not revive it (so now i'm on 1 160 gb drive, re-imaged from oem on raid 0). i wonder if this hotness is what killed my raid. i just quit playing the witcher enhanced edition, which should be cake for my system (3ghz ddr2 ram), and saw my cpu temp at 172 degrees f. i'll see what happens with the vga card. anyway, thanks again for the great information. happy gaming, and happy thanksgiving! ~lisa
