(windows xp)recently the cdrom/ floppydrive and cdr stopped working properly. when i insert a cd and try to open it i get this error message: d or a:\ is not accessible. incorrect function. but if i restart the computer and leave the disc in the drive, after restarting it will read the disc properly. for some reason the disc needs to be in the computer when it boots up for it to recognize it. i was going to reinstall the drivers, but this wouldnt make sense considering it's the three different devices doing the same thing. the only thing differently ive done to the computer lately is i installed a usb smartmedia card reader, which said it was not tested to run with xp, i installed anyway and it worked at first, then it would not and so i removed it. but my usb mouse still functions properly, so i doubt this is the cause. i also got the service pack2 to from microsoft to update windows xp. and i got new antivirus software as well as adaware and spysubtract. these shouldnt have an effect but theyre the only things ive done differently on the computer recently any help would be great, i dont know too much but am learning through each new problem, and just need some direction as to what things to check out.
select start/run and type msconfig go the startup tab and uncheck any items related to anti virus, spyware or adware. in fact, try removing any software that you recognize in the list that isn't part of windows itself. reboot and see if that resolves the problem, if it does you can restore the items a few at a time until the problem occurs again, and you can narrow down the cause. i have either installed or had clients install sp2 on a few hundred systems and not run into the problem even similar to what you describe.
system works or av or nis which have all been noted to cause this error message. in a few instances avg and mcaffee have also been noted as culprits. go here  and search for not accessible. incorrect function. with the &quot;all knowledgebases&quot; radio button checked. so too has roxio and nero's incd also you might try this: right-click on the drive w/ the problem properties recording tab and then check the &quot;enable cd recording on this drive&quot; box. (just opposite of what is recommended for dvd)
you were right, it's norton but their instructions to fix it dont seem accurate: change the service startup timing to change the startup timing 1. start symantec antivirus. 2. on the configure menu, click filesystem auto-protect. 3. in the right pane,click advanced. 4. under startup options, select symantec antivirus start. 5. click ok until you see filesystem auto-protect, and thenclick exit. 6. restart the computer. when i open the antivirus software, there's no configure option, but if i go to options it has the filesystem auto-protect. and the advanced button is not in the right pane but is a drop down menu below filesystem auto-protect. and then after that there is no startup options, or any of the other stuff they say is there. it only says what activates to monitor when using floppy and then has two options 1.scan all removable media for boot viruses every time it is mounted 2.scan floppy disk in a:for boot viruses when shutting down am i not looking in the right configuration area (it's definately not the same as they are describing), is there somewhere deeper in the program i need to go? iwould have emailed norton with this next issue but they make you work to find an email address on their site. thank you so much for all your help, almost there
