i have read all the other reviews witg people regarding there f1703 blacking out and i am certain that my monitor has the same defect my f1503 flat pannel. it blacks out and then if i turn it on and off again it comes up for about 2 seconds than blacks out again. hp says they can do nothing b/c my model has not been recalled but it is evident that it is the same problem as the f1703 and hp is just screwing me over.
is it out of warranty? if so, no one is screwing you over. if you will be patient, they have extended the warranty on some of these monitors. a polite phone call to escalate your situation up the chain of command might produce results.
i have owned the f1530 hp monitor for just one year and two months and bingo!! - i have the blackout problem!! when i turn the monitor off and bakc on, it lasts for approximatley 2 seconds and blacks out again. what to do???? lynn
i have owned the f1503 hp monitor for just one year and two months and bingo!! - i have the blackout problem!! when i turn the monitor off and bakc on, it lasts for approximatley 2 seconds and blacks out again. what to do???? lynn
i have owned the f1530 hp monitor for just one year and two months and bingo!! - i have the blackout problem!! when i turn the monitor off and bakc on, it lasts for approximatley 2 seconds and blacks out again. what to do???? lynn
i too have experienced the problems you described. today, 1/31/06 i faxed a four page letter to the ceo, mark hurd of hp requesting that they investigate the problems we are all having with the f1503 monitors. i advised him that i am prepared and will file complaints with the state attorney general office, and the better business bureau, as well have already contacted the law firm of girard gibbs in san francisco, who had initiated an investigation into the f1703 issues prior to hp extending the warranty on those models, to open another investigation into the f1503 if they ignore my request. i advised him that there are many of us posting here at cnet with issues on the f1503 so he cannot say that they dont know anything about it. in the past i have found this type of action to end in positive results, but if not i will proceed with my complaints. if i get any resolution i will advise mr. hurd that i will forward anyones name who is interested in a resolution also. i will be back to let you all know the progress on this nd if its good we can maybe communicate so we all can get our issues resolved.
i was on the phone today for over an hour with three different people in india. i guess this is where hp support is located. i was told that there are no problems with the f1503. i then explained that i have read on the cnet website about many people having this problem with the f1503. i was told that i should not look for information on any website except the hp website. please include me on any information that you get. i did have to buy a new monitor just so i can use my computer, but i still want them to fix the problem.
i'm having the exact same problem with my f1503 hp monitor. i think i just am gonna get a new monitor. when you got the new monitor did it completly fix the problem? and how long have you had the new monitor for? which monitor did you get? thanks
i'm having the exact same problem with my f1503 hp monitor. i think i just am gonna get a new monitor. when you got the new monitor did it completly fix the problem? and how long have you had the new monitor for? which monitor did you get? thanks
well, talked to a case manager and after a bunch of circling around the block, i asked if hp was refusing to investigate a consumer complaint to see if any connection existed with the f1703. the case manager stated that hp was refusing to investigate.... the better business bureau is forwarding my complaint to hp as we speak, and i am filing a comnplaint with the california state attorney generals office in next few days. i also contacted girard gibbs law firm who had previously investigated the f1703 issue and they are looking into opening an investigation into this one. i will keep all advised of progress as i hear back from sources. i also emailed contact 4, our local television consumer source but not sure if they will pursue. put it this way...its not over until the last dance has been danced. will update soon, hopefully...
i too have the same problem with my f1503. i wrote to mark hurd ceo of hp. i contacted hp support and they gave me one option, buy an upgrade to the 17'' for a mere $259.00. that's great ''tech'' support. not really!
well, onto my state attorney general complaint.....gotta document this lovely road trip....i havent given up yet as there are still a few avenues to go down. ill keep you all posted.... what i need from everyone affected by the problems with the f1503, only if you would be willing, is to email me at hpf1503watchers@hotmail.com with your first and last name, return email address, how old was the monitor when you started having problems, and did you contact hp. what i am trying to do is document an actual list of people affected so i can validate a problem exists, and so that if i can get some action from hp or someone who can represent us i can make sure that all of us are included in making a choice to pursue. as you all know hp ignores forums and byline names but real names and email addresses equal real people with a real problem. i will not use the information in any way other than to get an accurate count and if any opportunity presents itself i will email you to explain what the next step maybe and see if you want to continue with the ones who do. any help you can all give me will just make our case stronger for trying to secure representation or support. my name is ann baldetta and the above email address is strictly for f1503 victims. thanks to all who are out there and dont give up yet, i live about 20 minutes from the palo alto corporate headquarters and if nothing else i may have to drop by and say hi to hp one of these days in person to lodge our complaints.
i bought my hp f1503 monitor 1year and 3 months ago and yesterday the screen blacked out. i called hp customer service and was told i would need a new one, it would cost more to repair. so the hp rep proceeded to give me a hard sell for another monitor( a refurbished one at that!), even after i told her i just wanted to think a bit before buying another monitor. i think i was transferred around to every hp extension when i began complaining about the monitor being just over a year old and breaking down. i kept asking them, how can i be sure another one of their monitors would not do the same thing after just a years use? i had the feeling i wasn't the first to complain about this monitor. please let me know how it all turns out. i am interested in some resolution.i am really unhappy about this and i have always used hp products! thanks.
i'm sharing the frustration of a blackout hp monitor that's only 15 months old...after numerous emails, hp is still not willing to replace it, however, with enough of us pursuing them, we will receive recourse soon! in the meantime.... i took the advice of several other postings and took apart my monitor. i know nothing about motherboards or soldering, but followed the instructions closely and successsfully fixed the problem while making a cup a tea! seriously, i'm just a 30 something, cute girl with blonde highlights and was able to dismantle and correct the blackout. of course, i blankly stared at the bright, colorful screen for another 20 minutes; disbelieving that i actually fixed it!! i'm tempted to go into biz. reparing these for $50 a pop! there's a couple really good postings...i used this one:  don't let this website overwhelm you, but have since found another very detailed one:
&quot;edward&quot; is in the ceo office for quality control and told me today that i am only the 2nd person to complain of a f1503 blackout!! (???) so, let's all call edward at 877-917-4380 ext.79 he was actually a very nice sounding person... i emailed hp ceo mark hurd and said that if someone doesn't try to rectify this ongoing problem, a class action law suit was in order. i refuse to buy another new monitor for $350+!
anyone/everyone call hp's ceo office 877-917-4380 and ask for &quot;edward&quot; ext.79 this is the hp quality control office and they need to be made aware that more than 2 people have a problem with f1530! i was actually surprised that someone actually responded to my complaint to ceo mark hurd (via phone!).
thank you! i will call tomorrow, friday. everyone keep hanging in there.
i called the number and got jed on line and he was quite unpleasent about our problem. he said to go on ahead with legigation to resolve our problem. jed is at ex. 6143.
i have the same problem. first occurred about a week or two ago. rebooting solved it the last time. no such luck today. since there are so many posts to this forum, it doesn't seem to be a case of an isolated bad monitor after all...
just curious if your monitor was an f1503 or an f1703? is there a danger of voiding any extended warranty that hp might decide to offer should the troubleshooting attempt go awry?
i went ahead and opened the f1503 up and tried to fix it according to what i read here. after a few frustrating hours, i took it to a friend who sometimes works on electronics. he did find one leg that was rather loose, but he also found a couple of resistors that were bad. he gave me the resistor numbers, and i ordered them on the internet for about $2 each. a few days later the parts arrived and my friend fixed it!!!
ok...so maybe not &quot;easy&quot; for you, but atleast cheaper than buying a new one! safe to say that none of us will be purchasing hp monitors again....
i recently had a problem with my monitor as well it is just like all the posts that describe the problem and i did the online help with hp and they basicly said i need to by a new monitor i was not aware of the problem with the 1503 and 1703 until a coworker said somthing to me about how hp replaced his 1703 monitor after he brought it to their attention that he knew that they were having a problem with them. has there been any results for the 1503 getting replaced or fixed by hp
i noticed your issue and thought i would add more info. i have a vf17 monitor from hp and it too has had the blackout issue. there are a couple of posts from people that have the vf17 as well. i just got off the phone with hp (the 877-817-4380 x79 number). talked to a serge, but got nowhere. he stated that my problem was nothing like the 1703 issue. he said that the 1703 issue was not related to the monitor blacking out. i sent a complaint to the ftc consumer affairs
vinnyd85, try this! what i did, and my problem originated from placing in a new harddrive. wrote down any particular settings like 1024x767 and 60hz. 1) uninstalled the video driver for the monitor, and then reloaded from original cd (no fix?) 2) unistalled monitor from the computer (even disconnected it while powering up) and then reloaded monitor with cd (no fix?) 3) moved my video card...jest pressed down on it into the slot to ensure it was seated... (fixed!) 4) did a few computer updates to ensure monitor would not have the same problem...worked great then 5) downloaded the most recent driver from ati radeon site (package installer) as their site doesn't have my ati radeon 9200 listed...updated using the full installer and still working great hope this helps puddle jumper
