hello to whom it may concern, please help! i have a dell vostro 200 mini tower, i purchased it recently. it has xp home edition installed. it came with a dvd rom and a 250 gb hd. both are sata drives. i have two other drives that i am trying to install from my old computer. 1st is a western digital 120gb hd. 2nd is an lg dvd rom writer. both are ide. i purchased two ide to sata conversion kits with the necessary cables. i am new to all of this so forgive my ignorance. thanks....
i can't tell if you tried and failed or just asking for a reading from the old crystal ball.
suggest starting there. vapcmd
i installed both drives, hooked them up as i thought they should go. when i start the machine it dosen't recognize either drive. i'm not sure where to set the jumpers to. please feel free to ask me questions, i don't know what else to put in the feed... thanks.
on today's dells they use the 80 conductor ide cables so you set the jumpers to cs and then make sure (again the dell docs) that the bios has the ide port enabled. bob
bob, you keep referring to the dell docs, i'm not sure how to access these or where they are?? i tried using the &quot;help and support&quot; trouble shooter that came with windows it didn't seem to help. i did noticed that the bios ide port was enabled. i'm not to sure how to set the boot config though. i tried setting the jumpers a few different ways, cable select & slave, not master. it seemed to recognize the hd when it was set to cs but not the cd rom. i went into the device manager and saw the new hd there. i clicked properties, it said it was working properly but i couldn't access it. then it started acting funny after i rebooted. windows wouldn't boot correctly it seemed to hang up..
go there and put in your model number and read the docs online. since yours is a mini tower your options are likely to be very limited but dell years ago switched to 80 conductor cables so at lease we know how to set the jumpers. &quot;i'm not to sure how to set the boot config though.&quot; you set it to &quot;your choice.&quot; i can't make that choice for you given the details so far. bob
bob i was searching for a solution that enabled me to connect my plextor 230 cd drive to a newish sata dell (insp 520). i'm not a hardware guy at all so am having to take this slowly. there is no ide connector that i could see although there is a plug-in for a floppy drive connect in tghe diagram of the motherboard which looks like an ide cable connection point. assuming a can connect here will i need to install a pci card? if this option fails i wonder whether a simple ide to sata dongle would be the way to proceed ... assuming i have spare sata connection and power points. i am hot at home where the dell is but will return there for a week in 6 days and would like to get any stuff i need on the way home. would appreciate yours and others advice about this. mark
sadly we can't tell in advance it the ide to sata will work. so we keep both on the shelves and use which one works. the really bad news is a new sata dl with lightscribe drive is too cheap now. see  (was under 30 bucks...)
sorry, i missed something ... what do you mean we keep both? i want to use the plextor to get virtually perfect rips of my cd collection and tests suggest that nothing can match the plex here - that is why i want to use it. mark
(virtually)... the first thing we try is the ide to sata converter. if that fails we install an ide pci card. if that fails we try an external usb case. at some point the owner makes the choice. hope this helps. bob
