i was updating my hardware drivers last nite and did the one listed for the bios from the hp website. upon doing this the computer froze. when i started it back this message comes up on a black screen. award bootblock bios v1.0 bios rom checksum error detecting floppy drive a media insert system disk and press enter wireless keyboard and mouse wont work so i was forced to hold down the power button to shut it back down. i have tried restarting pc and pushing f keys. nothing but the same message would come up. i think went on another computer and had a chat online with a hp tech. they suggested i start it up and push the f10 key every second and the bios setup screen would appear. tried this numerous times with no success. i have also tried putting in my vista recovery disks that i created from this computer. still doesnt work when started up, and the light on the dvd/cd player is on and working. after pushing the f10 key and nothing happening. the tech then suggested i send the computer to them for repair. i was going to see if anyone had any answers before i look for outside help at some repair place. please help me if possible someone.
but i missed what model this is and the information to see if that was the right image as well to look if there is a recovery method. bob
sorry its a compaq sr5113wm with vista home edition- desktop computer
there is no bios listed there. can you share a link where hp lists the bios? if this is like the usual, hp has to be contacted for details about how to create their very special boot diskette that loads the old bios. bob
thats what i installed and it froze up then upon reboot got that error message i originally posted. i just dont understand why the hp rep. couldnt help me further during our online chat. they just want the pc back for repair which had an expired warranty.
under the vista drivers i found this bios. unless hp supplies a boot diskette the outlook is grim. let me see if we can make one. fantastic!!! there is a way. but be warned i will not hold hands in creating the bootable cd. this is advanced work and i can't write 20 replies how to create the cd. ready? read
thanks to everyone for all the replies, much appreciated.
