i have a host dell desktop with xp and a guest emachine desktop also with xp. i have a linksys broadband router and a linksys wireless card. the dell has working internet with no problems. i have tried to set up a network (many times) and the wireless connection is fine. however, the local area connection says &quot;the network cable is unplugged&quot;. ??? its wireless, right? what does this mean?
ethernet port in the back of your pc? xp could be reporting it as being unplugged.
im sorry, but i dont know where the ethernet port is that probably means i have an unused one
a telephone jack would, but slightly bigger. usually on the back panel of a new pc.
yes, they are both empty is that bad?
it would just indicate that windows is properly reporting that you are not using the ethernet port. since your wireless connection is working, there is no problem.
it says the wireless connection is working, but i cannot access the internet on that computer
did you enable dhcp on the router (wap) did you get an ip address? did you use wep or wpa security? have you tried to add your wifi network to this computer? tell us how you install your wifi and the setting you have done.
&quot;the dell has working internet with no problems. i have tried to set up a network (many times) and the wireless connection is fine.&quot; it appears you have a working internet connection.
i had been using dhcp, but i checked and it had not put in the settings correctly. i then stopped using dhcp; i put in the settings without it. i did get an ip address i used wep 128-bit security i tried to install the network on the main computer and it said, &quot;the wizard cannot create a wireles network, either because a wireless network adapter is not installed or because software for the wireless network adapter is not installed.&quot; i just installed it, but i didn't get a choice on what channel to use, and it chose the wrong one (it picked 6, my other computer is using 11) how do i change that?
im sorry, the computer that needs the wireless connection says the wireless connection is fine, but i still have no access to the internet on it the computer that directly connects to the router has working internet
u have 2 local area connections turn off the one thats not for ur wireless connection
i got it to work i have internet in my room and downstairs thank you so much for helping
