i about fell off my chair when i came across this review this morning:  we ordered a pc from alienware amost 8 weeks ago. it was supposed to arrive 8/28. we finally got fed up and cancelled the order yesterday, 10/6. the number of excuses alieware can come up with as to why they haven't built and shipped your pc is mind boggling. i can only hope we don't have to contact the florida state attorney general and the federal trade commision to get the $3400 charge removed from our credit card. cnet, stop stop stop stop promoting alienware!!! they are turning your store ratings into a joke. 4 stars for alienware, gimme a break.
you might even find micahel dell's information and e-mail him directly... the acquisition was announced in march, to be complete after regulatory approval; there's no pr at the alienware site to say the deal has been sommuated, however, so it may still be in process. -- dave k.
i knew that dell bought alienware. my problem is with cnet continuing to give alienware a 4 star rating. you don't show reviews that people post for stores, only products. you check any other reseller rating site and you will find dozens of bad reviews for this company yet cnet continues to give them 4 starts. here on cnet you don't see what an awful time people are having with this company unless you read the reviews for alienware products. it's turning your own store ratings into a joke. look at:   yet here they are on cnet with 4 out of 5 stars.
i was in exactly the same boat, but i decided not to allow alienware to drag me along that long. when they started giving me delivery dates that were a month longer than they said when i placed the purchase, i immediately cancelled and built the system myself. my dollars speak for themselves, i build the same system for about $1500 less and used the difference to buy a nice dell for my niece. i'll never buy again now that i've built a system on my own.
cookiebun, i am sorry to hear about the trouble you have had with your order. just out of curiosity, which system did you order? was it the same one from the review? what was the reason they gave you for taking so long to ship?
i built the pc i'm using now. we cancelled our order with alienware and decided to build my husband's new gaming rig ourselves. we spent about $3000 at newegg.com. most of the stuff will be here thursday. if all goes well he'll be gaming again by sat. i think i'll build all my own p.c.s in the future. this was total b.s.
it was a core 2 duo area 51 system. since placing the order in august they managed to be out of: the case the motherboard. the dvd drive. the power supply. machine sat at stage 5 for 3 weeks until i filed a complaint with the floridia bbb. jumped to stage 8 and sat there for 4 days. called alienware, they said stage 8 usually takes 24 hours unless there is a problem. obviously there was a problem so we decided to cancel. see my review (and others) here:  glad i'm not the guy who waited for them the actually ship. he's had 2 mobos and the machine still doesn't work.
i configured my area 51 7500 9/4/06 3 weeks later i reconfigured it as of 10/12/06 they tell me i,ll be at stage 5 by 9/16/06 other than the check status site still showing my old price and sitting on stage 3 forever i haven,t had to many problems with them i.m exited about my new system but getting nervous reading this negative stuff
i meant 10/16/06
i went to check on the status of my pc today but decided to check my email first and there it was to my suprise a tracking # from fedex my pc is on its way i hope everything is ok updates to follow
let us know if it boots up ok. we finished builing my husband's pc this past weekend. still haven't got our refund from alienware.
on the 20th of oct 3 of the 4 boxes showed up everything but the tower today the 21st of oct the tower came it,s massive it works great it,s everything i expected and more i,m stil loading software and configuring it for the best performance all in all i,m thrilled i,m sorry for everyones in the messages i read but i believe they make an outstanding product. [physced in beantown]
glad to hear it, you're very lucky.
