i just placed an order with dell for a studio xps system with core i7 processor, and now i am having second thoughts about my choice for memory. i went with 6gb option which was the lowest offered and is 6 sticks. it seems sufficient as currently i am running a single core processor with 4gb of memory. they offer upgrades to 8gb and 12 gb. the 12gb upgrade costs $300, and replaces the 6 1bg sticks with 2gb sticks. since later expansion will require replacing sticks in the future if, how likely is it that i will need that much memory in the next 3 or so years? i realize that this is a bit of speculation which depends on my usage and what happens in the future applications. i use my system for drafting, rendering, photo work, and a very small amount of home video editing. so, basically, if you are not into gaming, is 6gb a good choice, or will it choke the capability of my machine? i would appreciate you comments and suggestions. thanks, allen ps this is my first post. i expect this is a frequent question, and i do not mean to be repetitive. if there is a relevant thread, perhaps you could point me to it. thanks again.
i found this review by cnet:  . it links to a specification page that says it comes with 64 bits vista home premium. so it can make use of all 6 gb. that's nice. for your usage, i'd say that 6 gb is more than enough. kees
kees, thanks. i checked out the review. i had not seen this one before. thanks again. allen
well it says the motherboard has 6 ram slots, i dont know if that means theres gonna be 6x1gb sticks. either way, you should be able to mis-mtach ram sizes later on. of course i think 6gb ram is plenty
this has continued to be a question mark for me, too. dell does populate all 6 slots with 1gb sticks which is a real bummer - if i order now with 6gb and see that my heavy home video editing could use the full 12gb, then i would have to replace all 6 1gb dimms. so that is a waste of the initial investment for me. my question: if i'm running corel videostudio prox2, editing a large movie (45+ minutes), have multiple photoshop image files open, etc., could this system take advantage of the full 12gb of ram? a previous poster recommended ordering with 6gb and monitoring usage, but i don't want to waste the initial investment by throwing all those away if i see 6gb is not enough.
i know if its dual channel, the memory sticks dont have to match sizes in each slot. id guess its the same with triple channel id personally go for 8gb. its only another $100, and saves the trouble of having to buy it separate online
videostudio pro x2 is a 32bit app and can't take advantage of more the 2gb of ram.
