hello, i own an hp pavilion elite hpe-400y (specs)  i have replaced the power supply with a 600w corsair power supply and an nvidia gtx 550 ti i have been having trouble with it overheating to incredibly high temperature. (gpu at and under 100 degrees and cpu at and around 70 degrees) i need help modifying it in terms of cooling it down as much as possible. since i am a novice at computer hardware modifications i figured you guys could give me good advice on what i should do to make it run cooler, whether it be new fans, heat sinks, liquid cooling, a new case, etc. if you recommend one of the above can you also suggest a replacement part that i might be able to use? if you need any more information i am more than happy to provide it. and yes i blow the dust out of the fans regularly. thanks a bunch all . -ohno21212
are those temps in &quot;f&quot; or &quot;c&quot;? if &quot;f&quot; ........your good. if &quot;c&quot; .......take the side cover off....test. try a different temp monitor.
you could add an exhaust fan like the one here  not knowing how old this pc is or whether it might need new thermal paste, i can only say that this could be a consideration, expecially if this computer is more than a couple of years old. ` good luck.
celcius. i will try in a bit.
ill take it under consideratoin nad i got it in may 2011 sorry for not clariying
be placed, i'd start there. if you have existing fans that don't remove enough heat....perhaps a more robust or larger fan could be used. most of these case fans can connect directly to the psu and many have adapters too. here's the link i used. if there are no existing/unused case vents, you may have to make (cut) your own.  vapcmd
this is your basic oem build pc from hp. 1st the amd cpu tends to run slightly hotter, but well cooled by most setups. however, once added &quot;hot air&quot; is thrown in it starts to create heat build-up. your new gpu will do that, so be sure its fan or cooling setup is well cared for. as others suggested, added cooling can greatly improve the situation. they already covered that so i add, either add more fans or improve(replace) current fan(s) for better rpms for air exchange. make darn sure how that new psu is working with its fans, some maybe counter to accepted oem &quot;air flow&quot;, so inspect. if optional range setting, increase it. tada -----willy
