i'm home from college with my laptop (apple powerbook) sitting in my room without any internet. my brother, one room over, has road runner. i am confused as to what to buy if i want to share that internet connection with him wirelessly. do i get a router/gateway or an access point? i'm a little confused. should i just buy a cable modem/wireless router all in one if i am planning on moving out anyway? any help would be appreciated. thanks.
offered here&gt;&gt;&gt;  will do. adding a wireless adapter to the mac is all that's left.
i don't know about having to add an adapter to most of the new laptops now a days, unless i have been confused about this as well. for most of the new laptops if it says they have wireless airport technology(apple) or wireless centrino built in, doesn't this mean that the notebooks are ready to go? for instance, i know my powerbook has an 802.11 g and b capability built in. i don't need to buy a receiver along with the router and plug that into the notebook do i? thanks.
get an access point with a router capability (its a combo) yes your laptop is already have a wireless adaptor built in...
having a powerbook and wanting to go wireless, i figured this would be a good device to go with. my question is this: if my brother has a pc that is connected to his cable modem, do i merely place the apple airport express in between his cable modem and pc, and then reap the benefits of having internet in my room wirelessly? is it that simple? thanks.
modem --&gt;&gt; router --&gt;&gt; pc in one port, and your airport express in another port. you configure the airport express through an application/a utility in your powerbook. remember to disable dhcp in the airport express, let the router be the dhcp server.
if i don't necessarily want to create a network, but rather just want an internet connection can i just place a wireless router (i have wireless capability) in between my brothers cable modem and computer? my concern is if incorporating a router would mess with his internet connection? i assume i could do all this and then just set up the router on my computer. any input would be appreciated. thanks.
the wireless access point have be connected to the modem .. since the modem only have one port, you need a router, to be able to connect your brother pc and your wireless access point... unless its a modem/router combo.. modem --&gt;&gt; router --&gt;&gt; pc and wireless access point (each connected to the router port)
