i need to buy a lot of ink cartridges, so i'm trying to find a place online to buy these for the least cost. i wasn't sure if anyone had any favorites. so far i have checked with: staples office depot office max circuit city best buy cd amazon antonline beach audio ace photo digital j&r the nerds.net b&h video direct inkjet superstore ebay wal-mart kmart also, if you have any negative experiences with these sites i appreciate that info as well. thanks
ok lets see - b&h is going to be expensive, staples and offices will sometimes have sales or coupons. i havent found anything on ebay that made sense yet. the internet ? i have tried 2 different places and had nothing but problems. i have an hp 6210 all in one - 1 black and 1 color cart. soooo i get mine at wal-mart until i find something better, which i hope may come up in answers here :-)) ted
i have had good luck with my cartridges at carrotink.com johnny
hi there i have been using phoenix inks for a while now,they give a great fast service and reasonable prices too plus a buyback service on (some) empty cart's.give them a look at:--  good luck............steve.
if you have a local walgreens drup store around, they should refill your empty cartridges a lot cheaper than buying more new ones. once you have an empty one just drop it off at walgreens and they will refill it.
i have had good luck on ebay with the abacusfree store. they also have a site:  . same people, ebay site has free shipping, the other does not. been using their aftermarket cartridges at work for almost 2 years without a problem
i buy mine from  they have a wide assortment of the brands. they are usually half price if not better. free shipping if you join there club. the club is free just they setup a regular delivery schedule of ink for you. which you can adjust as you see fit. i've been buying mine there for a couple of years now. there inks are good enough for everyday printing and decent photo output. if you require top notch finish stick with the retail ink from the manufactor. they are usually the highest quality. but not cheap. this goes for all the generic ink outfits. for me i haven't needed the highest quality. also i have found by using the cheaper inks i can go for better paper and get pretty damn good quality there. just my 2 cents!
i have been buying compatible ink cartridges from clickinks.com because there price is a few cents lower that others and they also have a buy 2 and get 1 free offer on all orders. so for the price of 2 i get 3 and save some money. and they are quick on deliverys. they also sell oem ink. check them out.
for years i've been buying my ink on-line via  and have had nothing but good luck with their products. it's all been non-oem stuff but it's also cost a fraction of what it would have cost me through the big name retail channels. honestly, in the hundreds of cartridges i've used over the years i can count on one hand the number of bad one's. if a cartridge is bad it's not so painful to just toss it because they are so cheap to begin with. i'd suggest buying a few just to &quot;try them out&quot; and see how they work with your printers. i certainly can't complain as they've worked great for me.
i have been getting mine from printpal.com for the last few years. service has been great, and fast. never had to return any, so i cannot comment about that. for a 10% discount and free shipping,use  10. before i found these guys, i bought from mrink.com. i had a couple of leaky carts and a wierd message on the monitor due to incompatibility problems. mrink made good with minimum hassel. urgent needs i usually get at walmart. thinking of trying the refill trick at walgreens next time o have an empty. iheard bad news about some of the e bay vendors, so i didn`t even try them. ymmv, and good luck.
sometimes you meet great people dealing online. i'm a photographer and a graphics guy who uses a lot of ink. ran into a start up guy named brandon who owns inkgrabber. great attitude. he saved me a fortune looking for local specials and my epsom photo printer functions really well on the non-original equipment ink they have. if you try them out please say hi from bob from upstate new york.
i have been buying from  for 3 or 4 years. i have never had a bad one. they are very cheap, but usually are the same off brand cartridges sold by others for 2-3 time as much. my canon pixma1500 carts are $.99 for b&w and $1.49 for color.
has anyone here tried walgreens' cartridge refill service? if so, how is the quality of the ink, and of the job itself?
myinks.com
i have bought my ink from two places, the first is 123inkjets.com. their prices are very good for the printer that i have, about $4.00 per cartridge. the last place that i purchased ink from was abcink.com, and their prices were just as good as 123inkjets.com. the only reason that i changed companies was 123inkjets.com no longer uses paypal as a payment source. i received fast service from both of those companies.
for europeans meeding to avoid postage costs from usa sources, the british  does quite a good deal on compatible cartridges. any other good eurodeals?
sorry it took so long to answer. the replies were not showing up on my profile, so i didn't realize all these had come in. i appreciate all the help. i went ahead and bought from staples, i ended up saving about $10 over what i could find from the cheapest store for the cartridge. since i needed them quickly and needed good quality i decided not to take any chances, plus i could return them right to the store if there was a problem. i appreciate all the help and definitely will be checking these sites for the future. thanks again!
i just tried office max brand of canon ink for my all-in one and the black started to either dry too soon or clog the print head. returned it and replaced with canon brand to fix it. now about to try premium imaging products (made in china..damn it!) from  hope it will be better. i don't think any off brand will ever be as good as the original for any printer.
always compare the printer cartridge prices before youre buying, it will save you a lot of dollars which is certainly important in these hard times.  and  lets you compare prices on the products so you now that you get the cheapest available price.
