bought a hard drive and a external enclosure yesterday, i set the hard drive to master as shown in the instructions and installed it in the enclosure. i have two computers one with xp home and one with me on it when i plugged the hard drive into either of the two machines the drivers were installed automatically and the hard drive showed up in the device manager of both machines as this device is working properly however the hard drive does not show up in the c drive of either of the two machines. also i have both usb2 and firewire connections and have tried both and have checked their stasis in the device manager as well and they also show as working properly . this is the first time i have tried to get an external hard drive working and i thought that it was plug and play anyways, any help that anyone could give or if someone could explain the steps that i am missing would be greatly appreciated . dragonstar
1. &quot;i set the hard drive to master as shown in the instructions &quot; mine have always used cable select or cs. may be an non-issue, but many enclosures have documentation issues so i note it. 2. &quot;i have two computers one with xp home and one with me on it when i plugged the hard drive into either of the two machines the drivers were installed automatically and the hard drive showed up in the device manager of both machines as this device is working properly however the hard drive does not show up in the c drive of either of the two machines. &quot; a. not supposed to show up in the c drive or as c. b. you didn't tell if you partitioned and formatted the new space. bob
i belive it was set to cable select the first time that i put it in the case but the red light on the case came on so i put it on master and pluged it in again and the gree light came on and that was when i pluged it into my usb2 connection. the booklet that came with the case said that it would show in c drive as another hard drive ? where should i be looking for it then ?
&quot; the booklet that came with the case said that it would show in c drive as another hard drive ? where should i be looking for it then ? &quot; looks like another fine manual then. i don't think it (the hard disk) should show up until you partition and format some space. bob
do you know of a link that would explain how to find the hard drive so that i can format it, also i ran a couple of tests at seagate and the online tests that could detect the external hard drive said that it was working normaly. any advice you could give would be appreciated.
for windows me, it's a bit scary for some since we get to boot windows, run fdisk and create a partition. formatting can then occur after a reboot with explorer. for windows xp, it's in the start, help and support so there is no need for me to tell you to look anywhere else. hope this helps. bob
i had the same problem. i just ran the disk that came with the hard drive called western digital data lifeguard tools. inserted cd and it will autorun and the program let me format my external hard drive. after it formated then the icon appeared under my computer. web site is  you can download software there or go to the manufactturer web site of your hard drive. :-}
