hey, i'm having some trouble in internet connection sharing. my current setup is like this: i have a wireless router in the living room. it is connected to a cable modem and an xbox through a wired connection. in my room i have a computer with a wireless adapter, and it's working .. so i'm recieving wireless internet. however the problem is this, my computer is connected to another computer via crossover cable. this is what i want to do: the internet is accessed on the first computer via wireless and the second computer recieves internet through the first computer via ics. i've tried setting it up, but it the setup keeps telling me that the ip is already in use on the lan ??? just for some extra information i'm using xp the ip of my router is 192.168.0.5 the ip of the first computer is 192.168.0.1 i can't seem to setup the ip of the second computer any help is appreciated! thanks!
if you must use ics and the crossover, you need to set ics to use a different ip address range than the router, such as 198.168.1.xxx. however, you could save yourself all kinds of headaches if you simply got another wireless adapter for the other computer. dw
within the same network segment is an exercise in futility. use another wireless device and ditch ics.
thanks for the help! well just to follow up on what i did in the end: i moved the wireless router, and got an cat5 extention so the second computer and the xbox were wired, while the first computer recieved internet wirelessly. everything was working fine - until - i went to the next step of my wireless journey - security. i decided to use the wpa-psk method of security. after installing it, everything seemed to be working fine..except when i started msn messenger. for some reason, when i have wpa-psk activated, signing onto msn causes the wireless signal to disconnect. everything else works, (internet explorer ect.), just msn doesn't. after turing off security, everything went back to normal. any ideas on what the problem could be? .. thanks in advance!
can cause agita in a lot a home networking scenarios. i prefer to enable mac filtering for the pcs/devices and leave encryption turned off.
