which desktop computer &quot;brand name&quot; do you prefer? acer (please explain why.) apple (please explain why.) dell (please explain why.) emachine (please explain why.) gateway (please explain why.) hp (please explain why.) lenovo (please explain why.) sony (please explain why.) no-name (custom built) (please explain why.) other (what is it?) we all have our brands loyalties, so please respect each others opinions and keep this discussion civil. thanks!
they're built like a tank. i currently have four (two desktops and two laptops), and three others have been given to kids, and all are still working. ibm has the best on line update service anywhere. one click and ibm looks at the machine, and recommends updates all the way down to bios updates. i did have one problem with a laptop (turned out it was my problem), but when i called support the guy was located in atlanta, ga. and he spoke english. to me, this is worth more than money. how many threads are started with an ibm problem?
two words - tech support!
custom built for the last 10 years i've been building my own pcs rather than any 'brand' pcs, basically because it works out cheaper and i know everything that's in it. alot of my friends have bought 'brand' pcs with varying degrees of reliability and performance. i'm currently running an intel q6600 water cooled and overclocked to 3ghz, asus stryker 2 formula motherboard, geforce 9600 gt sonic 512mb graphics card, 8 gb ddr2 800 ram, 1 x raptor 150gb sata hdd, 2 x 750gb sata hdd, lightscribe dvd writer in a thermaltake armor case and connected to 2 x 22&quot; widescreen monitors and also connected to my 50&quot; plasma tv via the graphics cards hdmi output all running vista ultimate 64bit. this system has cost alot of money but it can be built up a step at a time so spreading the cost to a more affordable range and ending up with a constantly evolving system. i'm not knocking any of the brand make pcs but for me personally i like to get into the guts of a computer and get a great satisfaction from doing it myself. from the experiences of friends etc i'd probably rate dell over many of the rest for reliability and emachines probably rate worst as most of my friends who have bought one have had nothing but trouble and they had no luck with customer support either.
everyone likes their breakfast, lunch, dinner, clothing, music, etc. a certain way. why shouldn't our computer system be made the way we want??? from the case on, there are choices, choices, choices. yet, my wife gets frustrated in the &quot;cereal&quot; aisle, because......&quot;too many choices&quot;!!! i want to know each and every component in my system, (i have someone build it for me), but i choose (or have suggested) what drive, ram, videro card, how many fans, drives, etc. i want, then, when i'm done (and my wallet is crying for mercy, i choosw what case i want. see-through, lit??, am i going to carry it? (oh no, it stays put) but my biggest factor is &quot;expandibility&quot;!!!!!! my system has some components 9including the case), that going on ten years old now. it has four fans, a upgraded 500gb hd, wonderful new flat screen monitor, have gone through keyboards like my wife goes through pantyhose (anyone else now despise wireless keyboards)?? when it comes time to &quot;start over&quot;, i am confident that much of what i am using now will be utilized, and as far as... ahem, uh, tech support....., well, the guy or gal, who built the system for me, has all of the component criteria at their fingertips, no &quot;mystery&quot; gear that's &quot;sorry, you can only use our parts with our components&quot; runaround. now, if there is need for multiple systems say as for a office app, then, i would have to say &quot;dell&quot;, because as a &quot;temp&quot;, i am in many many many offices, and the vast majority is dell. now, if i can only convince my wife that &quot;alienware&quot; really will make the internet a &quot;smoother, faster, cheaper&quot; place to be......
its hilarious.
i build my own pc's for a number of reasons: 1. a new pc with the features i build in would cost considerably more. 2. i use ubuntu linux. most new pc's come with vista or xp pre-installed. i have no need of these so have no desire to pay royalties to microsoft. 3. in my experience hardware problems are very rare. most issues that i had problems with back in my windows days related to software weaknesses. these are also not a problem, and any questions are quickly answered by a very active forum. i am running a 64bit 6400+ amd dual core processor with a radeon 2600 video.
basic dell today, with michael back at the helm can't be beat imho just bought two more 3/11 duo core intel 2.2 ghz 2mb ram, 250 hd 20&quot; flat panel analog, dual optical 48x cd/ burner and 16x dvd+/dvd-, integrated graphics, 10/100 nic, xp 499.00 each delivered........just cant get a better deal than this and a 1 year warranty
i researched machines with an eye towards reliability, cost and customer service. after reading countless reviews on cnet adn seeing comparisons, i chose the e machine. it fit within my very spartan budget, does what i need it to do and so far as a wannabe mr. wizard on computerese, no problems. however, the customer service bragged about in reviews is less than the stellar in mho: my issues with my cd burner and drive door with an, &quot;oh well. whatever you want to do&quot;, attitude. seems that companies still don't get that consumers have a choice. and they talk. lee, maybe a discussion on customer service needs a new airing? blessings, dina
i use 2 thinkpads and have owned 3 earlier ibm thinkpads. earlier poster is correct, they're the easiest systems to upgrade; 'system update' grabs bios, driver, and even windows updates all at one time. the updates are tuned to the specific machine, no non-applicable updates. only notebook that you can place on the ground and stand upon. see their well-written blog at  they remind me of michelin tires; pricey, but once you make the switch you never buy anything else.
after building 3 computers for people in the house, i would not be of a mind to buy a ready-made brand name for personal use. it's a real breath of fresh air to not have the crap/shovel ware that is loaded on brand name computers. the primary tech support is immediately at hand and i might only have to deal with microsoft or some other vendor on a small issue. i have an intimate knowledge of the components and software with no need to send the pc to the factory or turn it over to a repair service. when i may indeed have questions, i don't have to wait on hold ad infitum for an answer, they're mostly available on-line and very quick and easy to get.
custom build (cb) has more profit better any one, even though the spec must be compatible with the other hardware in computer desktop. u can choice the best hardware and can combine to make the best perform and quality in your computer. if u actually using animation or games program u can understand what i mean.. with cb u can learn how to installed your own computer, u can cut more price computer from technician computer or build computer, u can upgrade as u need or want without worrying to difficult search some hardware, u can choice other mark which compatible to u, 'n finally u can sell it hardware one by one if u boring.
hello everybody, this is my first reply here in cnet forums, and i was just interested in the poll. i preffer to build my own computer, i select the cabin, the motherboard, and such hardware items, as well as sources and stuff, they are customized to my needs. for me, and i think that for many too, the best thing to do is to build your own computer, if you know what you're doing of course. thanks for reading! martn
my personal preference would be hp because of its design & after sales service. more over its quite reliable so far coz i've tried a couple of other brands and this brand have not give me any problems...
i've heard many people put down emachine computers before (including the salesman that sold me mine), but honestly my $500 t3092 that i bought 3 & 1/2 years ago has been spectacular. i have had zero problems with it, and even if it explodes in another year...who cares! it was still half the price of a dell/hp/etc. and it's time to upgrade anyway. i only wish they still made laptops, i'd buy one in a heartbeat for my next computer.
as individuals we're all idiots but as a group we make pretty good decisions. so who is &quot;other&quot;? hummmmm, i want one of those. this thread untracked.
lets set a clear point: well made things are precious monuments from that hidden and beautiful side of human being. firms and their brands are after our money, but when that is done with the quality reward to consumers, that is simply wonderful. apple does that job quite like that, and also for quite a long time. then i love linux and open source; it lives well with apple. then i need windows too; it runs on apple. sure, apple does play some bad tricks, but that happens one in a thousand of times you times, and on my personal experience it has never happen to damage my work. thank you mr. jobs, commerce is a wild land and may make also of you to act as a wild and nasty person, but i understand you and support your brand.
i couldn't agree more. i personally just choose anything that'll work. i use apple myself. i have gone through too many computers in my time. this one seems to work the best. i have a macbook. it's surely built like a brick. i'm happy with it. steve jobs and the design team deserve a fridge of fine imported beer.
previously i have always had - and - furthermore recommended dell systems. from my early pii 300ghz & 1ghz piii. this being in the main because they have always been very reliable and reasonably priced. looking now however this seems to have changed with the dell web site basically going all out to snare the would be buyer to parting with hard earned cash - not on system components but on warranties etc...you seem to have now pay through the nose for what was once expected. additionally i have found that upgrading system components through dell is very expensive. this time i have therfore decided to try a build my own - with a specification i require for my needs - we will see if this was worth the gamble [assuming i do not trash any components during the build process !!] regards paul mitchell
i like hp. love the technology, always reliable (at least in my experience), but their so-called &quot;tech support&quot; sucks, ever since outsourcing to india. i've had hp's for many years, and i loved when i had a problem and called the &quot;american-based&quot; tech support...they always helped me resolve whatever it was ailing my pc, but no more, i can't stand talking to an indian as most of my calls have been so frustrating. i usually can't understand their &quot;english&quot; or they don't know jack about my problem(s), so i gave up calling a long time ago and usually either resolve it myself or thru someone on the net. otherwise, i have no problem with hp's technology. there, i said it, that's my vote.
mine is a custom built, &quot;no name.&quot; i got it, because: a. i know the builder. b. i respect his opinion. c. he is a technoid, not a sales rep! d. he shopped around for the most modern hardware (nothing, past its use-by date!). regards, mick2222
sony! since it has been around for awhile, and always seem to make good quality items. no matter what it is! radio's, tv's, stereo's, all in general. i'm know expert, but using sony from experience of 25 years. never had any problems with there items. thanks and thats my opinion. just from my personal use in my home. thanks you1
i have always build my own machines, (well... since about 1996 when i first started!). although i do appreciate that computer system manufacturers build machines suitable for most everyday users, that will work for most purposes and programs, i do think that if you are looking for a computer that can work well for customized/specific uses/programs, then a custom computer works best. you can change what you want within the pc without having problems for example; invalidating the warremty on your machine, or problems locating drivers that can be accepted by the manufacturer of the machine. also as the subject states above, if you know or have an idea what you put into your built machine, you usually know what you'll get out and/or what you'll have to do to upgrade it.
i compare with my old computer, an amitec, witch only had half of the system uploaded, and i was unable to download servicepack 2. allways breaking and always recovering to status. but now i am happy with this new one. by the way, wondering who get the second computer they made, amitec i meen. sotis.
i prefer dell for quality and great customer service
my 24/7 computer is an ibm tablet which i never leave home without, but as far as desktops go i still need to use one for certain tasks. i don't need a lot of whistles and bells, television shows, games or software i don't use, but i do on occasion need the desktop for some applications. so why pay these giant corporations who are so arrogant that they make you stay on the telephone for 20 minutes and go through menu after menu only to find out that they've put you through to the wrong person for tech assistance, when there's a local guy with a small shop who will put in what i want and only what i want, do repairs and upgrades right there, and charge me way less than the behemoths? i've had it with supporting people who make more in an hour than i will all week. any time i can give business to a local shop and help out the local economy rather than give money to one of these megacorporations, it helps everyone.
i have had had packard bell, a clone and a gateway prior to my hp. the hp is lightyears better. knock on wood! i have had little to no &quot;issues&quot; since getting it about a year ago. i got it from a third party vendor [make it work], that was my only giant mistake! i got screwed bad! and did not get kissed! i am not computer literate so i hire people to do things to and for my computer. miw was and has been a nightmare! avoid them like the plague! major overpriced and real morons as techies! i have managed to get the hp almost the way i want it, except my email configuration is not what i would like it to be, but will get it the way i want it soon. all of my email accounts, sans one, is working the the way i want it to work. now i am shopping for a laptop, and will go with hp, dell or acer i guess. any great advice would be appreciated.
i like asus. good stats, decent performance, good price.
i have bought gateway computer for the first time in 2001. just last year i replace one part. it did cost. but love to trade in my computer for a update one without paying out more money. i love the new without wires. and add everything to go with it.
before you buy a dell, hp or any other pre-made machine ask yourself this: who's hard drive is in the machine? whos video card is in the machine? who's ram, what is the power supply wattage and whos is in it? who's motherboard is in the machine, what is the upgradablity of the machine? if you can find out the answers to all of that and you are happy that the parts are from quality manufacturers and have good ratings (doubtful) then buy the machine from dell, hp or whoever. if you cant get the answer to that then build your own. yes it may cost you a few bucks more, and yes there will be no customer support ( even when you buy it most customer support centers dissapoint anyway) so i guess in that area you are really even you are just paying for it when you need it rather then pre-paying for it. if you build your own or have it built for you, you can tell them exactly what manufacaturer part is to go into your machine. in the long run you will end up with a much better machine in my opinion.
the hp machines are more friendly with restore cds and waranty. i like the amd hp machines. support ok. dell is easy to back winxp because delloem cd with xp can be installed instead vista without activation. -believe me, too much ask by downgrade- the cons of dell is some tower/desktop models are ugly design. but support ok. emachines is nice and good style. price is better. at this time i never needed support.
building your own is both economical and pleasureable. you get the components you want with the brand named parts recomended and there is no need to upgrade from &quot;on board video, sound and ram. there is also the tendancy by brand name computers to include &quot;trial&quot; software that is only the partial program and it runs out in 30 days or so. then you are faced with the prospect of having to buy the &quot;full&quot; program at considerable cost to you. there are also &quot;bundled software&quot; to deal with, some of whitch do not play well together.want your own virus protection and spyware tools? if you buy a system from dell, you get there take on this and it can be hard to get rid of it. i use tiger direct for the quality products i want, at the price i want and have yet to be disapointed in both the products and the advice i got from the helpfull staff. it is easier than you might think to &quot;build&quot; you own! i am currently on the third generation amd system i have built and going strong! j.r.
my 2002 hp pavilion desktop computer has been 100% problem free. it has never required a single repair, and has never had any problem of any kind. i don't know if hp technical support is good/bad, because i have never needed them. my previous computer was a high-end dell desktop. it was dead-unrepairable after three years. in addition, i found dell consumer technical support to be completely clueless. i guess if you want a dell technical support person with a brain, you have to be a business customer.
bought three of these machines over the last two years and have been very happy with them. i chose them because they were relatively cheap for the machine you got. i was pleasantly surprised when they turned out to be great machines. as i said, i own three of these machines and have had no problems. they are a quality build, easy to upgrade, and very quiet. the last desktop i bought was so silent i couldn't tell if it was on of off.
i built my own, i know what is in it, all the settings, i can get into the set-up and change things to suit me. i don't have to do my head in trying to contact manufacturer's etc.
cnet should have included a button for simply &quot;name brand&quot;. my own preference might be hp, because that's what i have and it isn't causing me any problems, but actually most any name-brand computer would probably be good.
for a desktop there is absolutely no other choice than hand building. in most instances its cheaper. not to mention i am putting exactly what i want into my system, no bulkware, no bloatware, i can overclock, change components and get a case with room to expand. all without worrying about voiding a warranty. unless you absolutely positively can't fathom building your own system, its something where once you do it once, you never buy oem again. cheers cameron
as a public and corporate it professional, i have had the privilege of working with and on most everything... when i break down my experience (with pc's) to basics, it comes back to maintenance & support. if the computer is designed with the long-term customer support / retention built in, then the brand will build a loyalty base. there are always exceptions, when people are given a pc or have to purchase the most cost effective at the time, and they have a good experience, they may become loyal to that brand. i have had the best experience with ibm thinkpads, and aptiva's which are now product lines of lenovo, but the same great minds that built them before are now joined with the great minds of lenovo, and the synergy that the team has acheived is apparent in the newest product line models. i acquired a new z61 model in the last 6 months, and it is the best ever...(it's my 6th). i have either owned or been assigned a thinkpad computer since they came out with them in the early 90's. otherwise, hp is really high on my list as a very close 2nd mostly for the same reasons. ps i do own a self-built generic server running win 2008 server and it is like a child; you never fall out of love with it...
dell computers, and sony computers, are the most eco-conscious computers with regard to toxic chemicals (i.e greenpeace's electronic report) my dell precision m90 laptop is extremely solid. it contains aluminum, steel, and thick rubber on the bottom. it has been dropped from a backpack onto a sidewalk and the &quot;strike zone&quot; technology kicked in, i did not lose any data and when i booted it up, the websites i had been working on as well as the word documents i had been utilizing all popped up. the keyboard is extremely solid. it is not &quot;mushy&quot; like apple computer keys. i plan to consider the dell xps 13'' notebook-the industrial design is exquisite! as well as alienware's magnesium alloy cased 17''' laptop(also made by dell)
bought the first in 1998 and retired it in 2005 p1 still did ok on net till modem failed. video card failed early on but it was a diamond card. added upgrade. now on a acer 2 yo with zero issues. well satisfied thus far. good performance and reasonable price.
have been using acer products for many many years and have experienced very few problems..also both my wife and myself on lap tops both acers again no problems
for users who have little or no experience with computers, a &quot;brand-name&quot; system is usually the best for them. since the components are relatively cheap and easily replaced, it's a definte benefit for the novice user or someone who simply doesn't want to worry about their computer. i, however, want to control what components are installed in my systems and know what to expect from them.
at the time i was looking for a desktop that would give me the option of adding periphials such as hard drives. i had 2 from previous pc's, and wanted to keep them and utilize them as backup and etc...plus, the fact that they were in excellent shape. i tried the brand names first, but most of them did not give u the option of adding other hard drives...don't forget this was before usb external hd's. now, i have 3 hd's,plus a dvd in my desktop and still going strong.
i was working for bustbuy recently as a technician. i see inside most of the brands, acer, hp,... do not recommand non of them. strongly recoomand custom build. at least you know what you have.
dell as of right now is number one. i have been ordering dell xp boxes right up until last week and i have bought around 6 since jan 1. the vostro pc line is inexpensive overall, works very well, has real xp cd with it, something not even the gateway did as of the last one i bought. some were core2duo most were pentium dual core. for standard office work, the pdc works just fine. if you are looking to play games, do intensive photo work or video encoding, then a much higher end unit is required. but for 80% of users, a basic unit is fine. all were ordered with a 160 min hd, 1 gig ram, dvd rw and a 19&quot; widescreen with xp pro. the prices vary from day to day but the price is usually around 625.00 including tax. w/o pro 525.00 is their standard tech support the greatest, well maybe not, but it is light years ahead of hp/compaq. gold tech support is outstanding. before the acer purchase i would have gone with gateway as 2nd, now i have no idea as to their build quality. hp/compaq is ok but i never liked the restore disk method, having had to do several restores for customers, the options of format or no format is a might on the limited side, as there is no repair or recovery console available. and if you didn't burn yours to begin with and the hard drive fails, you will be paying for a set from hp and waiting a few days. lenovo(ibm) bought one for a customer with decent specs; they were happy with it, but i could see it ran substantially slower than others with even slower cpu. would never buy another. emachine - although they are on the cheap side, i have sold several of these and so far (years have passed) none have died that i know about. they are less expensive and tech support is not bad. the one time i called i got a rep in utah and he was very helpful. (spoke english and knew what he was doing.) sony - worked on a few - didn't care for all the crap that was &quot;sony&quot; tagged and you couldn't remove without screwing up something. i have built a lot of pc's myself for myself and for others (approx 300) so i am not a novice to this. my own pcs will run faster and usually more smoothly than anything off the shelf. that being said, i at this point, would most likely have to weigh the benefits of a custom pc to a dell and then add anything i might want. dell is expensive when adding extras such as a 2nd drive or more ram, but you have to realize that if everyone bought just the basic unit and nothing else, they would raise the price or go broke. i have priced like hardware from dell and hp and almost always the dell is less expensive, so for me it's just a dell.
because i know exactly what's in it and can decifer any probelms that arise quickly. add, upgrade or delete when i want to. besides....i hate washing someone else' car (or laundry). lol
it has portable body.
i am in australia, i had a 9 yr old computer, a number of upgrades inc 2 hard disks, 7 gig,original, 20 gig and a 320 poetable. it would not handle adsl2. new one, custom built from gr-tek comps,liverpool, sydney. it has all the bells and whistles which as yet i have not worked all out, did i really need them?. inc tv. goes great, flamming fast. use avg anti virus etc. its great but again i will probably never use some of the stuff on it.
i bought a cyberpower pc because i could pretty much have what i was looking for without going through the hassle of building my own. the pc came in excellent shape and ran as expected. the 'fly in the soup' is their tech support be it via telephone or email. they both suck big time! i've own they system about a month now so no hardware failures per say. my only real problem came when i had to get update the bios to get the asus o/c program to work. the bios upgrade caused my 12 in 1 card reader to stop working. after trying to get support via phone(which i only could get a recording) that they would call me back(they never did)and or via email i gave up and fixed on my own by reloading win xp. so essentially you are on your own!
there is nothing better than a custom built pc, you build it yourself or hire someone, that way you know exactly what type of components are being used. i learned my lesson, and do not really trust computer manufactures a whole lot any more, as they not only use the cheapest parts they can find, but most of they're tech support is a nightmare. if i had to really buy a desktop i would go with apple (i have 2, ad they run vista really well, and tech support is amazing), my second choice would be hp, than dell (but be sure to buy from the business division, cause the other each support is horrible) and try to stay with the xps line. i loved the vaio's, but sony saw no future in continuing to build desktops, but if i need a laptop, i would only trust apple and sony. out of all of these, sony has the best tech support, waiting times are usually under 4 minutes, they now what they are doing, speak perfect english, and do not treat people like dummies that have never used a pc (unless that's your case). anyways, conclusion is, custom computer (companies like powerpc can build one for you), or apple's mac pro or even the mini for those that do not need intense graphics, cpu and ram; and you'll be very happy.
it used to be dell, but they've lost my confidence. too many bs deals they have going on. no more amd, their ubuntu systems cost more than windows (dell.ca, i don't know if it's the same in the rest of the world). open source is taking over. anything you can pay for, you can pretty much get for free. why pay more? office suite, security, music and video players or burners, web browsing. if i were to choose a brand maybe shuttle, for the novice try their new kpc k45. i see dell is at the top of the list, as long as it is, it'll continue to overcharge. build your own next time (with the components of your choosing not theirs) and see what their prices will look like in 5 years...
i would prefer to build my own. but can't afford everything i want in a desktop. so buy dell and then upgrade later( memory,graphics). there prices are within my budget. i have never had a problem with my dells (laptop and desktop)that i can't fix myself. i haven't had any yet. the laptop is a year old, desktop 5 years.
i had a gateway for almost 7 years and they were right there with support but high priced at the time now nonmae actually a vostro 200 dell made the way i want it and also to upgrade.
i am more concerned with architecture and os performance than with silly nitpicking about a name.
i chose other becaause i interpret the other choices as being built for me. i prefer to build my own because i am qualified to do so. (that's my conceit) really, it's because i am constantly upgrading to meet current needs for &quot;others&quot;. most folk i deal with don't want to anticipate their future needs. new comers often only want to do the r-mail thing or to write letters. if they associate with other pc users, it isn't long before they want to do more than their pc is really designed for. they oftem experience unnecessary frustration trying to do what they really can't. another problem, especially with some cheaper brand names is that they are harder to upgrade without major parts replacement. let's face it, if it's cheap there is a reason - and it's not a good one! hope this helps someone aviod a pitfall - norm smith
eww, dellienware? overpriced flashy computers, i say.
amen, brother. when i built my pc, i hadn't switched to kubuntu yet, so i did buy an xp cd (which was part of the reason i built, vista having recently taken over). but now, i have high-quality parts that i appreciate all the time (for example, air filters that i can pop off and clean, rather than opening my case to blow out all the dust). though i must say, you chose an ati card intentionally for use with linux? now that they've been bought by amd, they're actually making drivers, but still, nvidia support is way better.
the work computer i am typing this on is a dell 1.7ghz that does not get shut off and has been running constantly for 6.5 years without a failure. my home computer is a dell 3ghz which also runs constantly and has been up for 2.5 years.
we are on our second dell computer, ran the last one into the ground. they had an unbelievable deal this past fall. the deciding factor though was really the tech support....hands down that is what has sold us.
i can put the capabiltites i use on it and load an oem (in the past) that had no crapware pre-installed. my latest has linux ubuntu loaded. i had to get vista on my laptop and it sucks - xp was not available.
i like macs, plain and simple. they may cost a little more but i rarely have a problem with the ones i've owned. -imac -macmini -g3 -3 g4s -g5
the main reason why i would prefer acer is because the tech support staff is all american. some of the components are not the best (ex: the keyboard) but when you need help you can always easily understand them.
i prefer custom builds, because of more durable parts. most name brands incorporate descent parts with cheap parts. i believe a good power supply, processor, hard drive, good quality compatable memory and motherboard is the key to a lasting system. i have worked on a lot of name brands and all have the same parts. dell uses different parts. the processor, memory, and hard drive, are the best parts. motherboard and power supply are weak will not withstand power outage surges. so buyer beware!!!!name brands are reasonable, have weak power supplys and will kill your motherboard.
i certainly would not recommend an alienware pc. i paid 2400.00 for one on the 20th feb. this year and i still dont have it.
because the first computer i owned i purchased at goodwill for $35. it was entirely hp. it was old and slow but it was already 6 years old and still performed like a champ. the customer service leaves something to be desired (like native americans) but the equipment is made to last.
i am a recent being recent in the last 3 ear mac convert. love the way it works and simplicity but also have and had for some sony laptops there at last count at the time they were small looked nice alternate colors my was blue the ac adapters were interchangeable between models. i still only use pc mainly for games
if dell made good computers, they and you would not have to brag about their tech support. i currently have 2 acers...a desktop and a laptop. no problems with either of them. prior to that i had 2 gateway computers. no tech support was needed on either of them, either. guess those brands are better made than dell. sorry, guy.
as the owner of a computer repair shop i am asked many times a week &quot;which is the best brand to buy?&quot;. my response is always the same.buy your neighbors old computer. all the computers that come to our shop are made from the same third world junk that would not even be called &quot;seconds&quot; here. the parts are the same with white sticker on the partss or board with the brand name of the computer being sold. i'm not aware of any computers made in this country other than shops like ours. i tell people to look at them as you would a throw-away camera. my best advice is to keep them unplugged from electric and telephone when not in use. i doubt i've ever had anyone come in here with a toasted motherboard and power supply that didn't tell me &quot; i had it on a surge protector&quot;. seems they are boobie trapped to go with first little powewr surge.
i have had two compaq laptops purchased from costco. one is now 8 years old and has been to collage with two kids. the other is 3 years old and like the one before never gave us a single problem. we also have two dell laptops and one dell desk top. one of the dell laptops had to have the keyboard replaced. (bummer is had to mail it in to get it done) the rest of the dells have been trouble free. the only reason i would choose the compaq over the dell is they seem to be higher quality for about the same price.
acer is a korean company that recently aquired gateway after gateway aquired e-machine.........so. none are made in this country. they do have offices here.
the ibm boxes you refer to are now lenovo - or china's best kept secret! or are you referring to older ibm machines prior to the sale; with that i agree with everything you say -- i have 3 older laptops - they just work and i have never had a problem; plus i like the &quot;tracking&quot; device in the middle of the keyboard. fasteddi
if i were to purchase another box, it would be microcenters powerspec and or winbook. the only issue i have with winbook is their no parts strategy; you have to send it in for repair. powerspec's typically have had weak of failing power supply.
frankly i like the idea of being able to cherry pick my componentry. i select my hd [personal preference: maxtor and samsung], video card [preference for ati despite being kicked around lately], motherboards [various but asus is prominent, and absolutely favor the via chipsets], but most especially the cpus [i've only used amd since early 1980's], but also ram, power supply, installation of the number and capacity of my fans front and rear, etc. this may come to an end, but until it does, i prefer my own selections over those of others, who &quot;have my best interests at heart&quot; - lol.
i prefer custom built by a pro, though i have built one myself. i also have had a compaq and an emachine. with custom built it is much easier to upgrade or make changes and the os software is less buggy.
cool news thanks thanks
good machines friendly 24 7 tech support
i have had my computer since 2000 and other than program crashes i an pleased tp sy it as been most reliable, it is an &quot;advent.&quot; regards dave bray
my last two computers were dell desktops and i have generally been pleased with them, and was starting to read up on their laptop lines. i saw a new dell-manufactured anti-virus software recommended somewhere here online, and i ordered one. it never came. i called. ninety minutes and six people later they had not even begun to resolve the problem. i asked them to cancel my order and refund my money, and they said to do so i would have to go back to the beginning of the very long initial customer service wait. at that point i decided my $21 wasn't worth the time i was spending, and gave it up - thus losing my money with no hope of ever receiving the product. what if i'd just bought another computer and needed tech support? never will i buy dell hardware or software again -- and i do hope their management monitors these techie chat rooms to see how many of us have similar complaints.
it is a good thing your acer hasn't given you any problems. when i bought mine last month, it had a bad sound card. in order to repair it, i would have to mail the entire computer to the depot and then they will take 7-10 business days to repair it, so, with using priority mail (i live in the us virgin islands), i would be without a computer for a month. this is no way to run a business and i will never buy another acer; consequently, i can't recommend acer to anyone else. there were other problems, too, with the pre-installed software. frankly, i found acer to be a nightmare unless you live in the same town as the depot.
i have only bought one computer. and, it was a very long time ago. after that peice of junk, i decided to build every computer i have owned since, for various reasons already mentioned in this thread. but, pimarily because i have the knowledge and abilty to do so. and, i can always build a better one that suits my needs now,primarily as a gamer. i started building/engineering computers back in the 1970's
personally. i prefer to build my own desktops but as far as laptops go, i've had great luck with toshiba's stuff. my wife should be a tester for laptops because she can find the weak point to any system whether it be software or hardware. she goes through laptops like i change my underwear, which suits me just fine because i get her hand-me-downs and after some simple repairs, most often, i have a great little machine. shes now testing an hp, which is holding up pretty well except its barely a year old and shes already talking about a new one. her last gift to me was a toshiba that i had to stick a new hard drive in because she let it sit, turned on, overnight, on the sofa with a blanket covering the vents, repeatedly until it just cooked the hard drive. amazing how where they place the vents has so much to do with how long they last. but, i didnt see toshiba on the list so i thought i would stick that one in there.
i have this xps410 dell computer and am completely satisfied with it. this is my second dell and since i can not build my own, i am very satisfied with this one.
very happy. using it for last eight years. susanhk
good counselling, good support. i got perfectly what i need and want with special keyboard, pre-installed software and perfectly working peripherals. will buy there again.
i like pcs custom built by myself or the local pc builder why custom made no annoying preloaded, free trial software
i have had a dell desktop and a laptop. i love them both. tech support has been awesome. lightening got my desktop, and i am relying on my laptop now...with no problem. a close second would be hp. all of my hp's have lasted for 4+ years or more before needing upgrades. toshiba is dead last. everybody i know that has one has had nothing but problems.
i had a gateway for 8 years and it had xp
now i have a dell inspiron 530s
basically, whatever i can get my hands on and is affordable.
thanks for all &lt;a href=&quot;  title=&quot;evden eve nakliyat&quot;&gt;evden eve nakliyat&lt;/a&gt; &lt;a href=&quot;  title=&quot;evden eve nakliyat&quot;&gt;evden eve nakliyat&lt;/a&gt; &lt;a href=&quot;  title=&quot;evden eve nakliyat&quot;&gt;evden eve nakliyat&lt;/a&gt; please go on
shanelle randisi and robert diaz are asus employees who dont know the warranty for the essentio desktop and will not honor it. they told me i was not entitled to a replacement and then they sent 3 beat up refurbished units with the sane disc drive defects for my brand new one that they could not fix. they refuse to give me a new one as the warranty states. i called consumer affairs and bbb and shanelle lied to both of them to avoid honoring my warranty. randisi refers to a customer who wants what he is entitled to a &quot;pain&quot;. she said this in an email and the company actually was forced to apologize. so unprofessional, dishonest, worthless, and ******. never again
i bought my current computer at the end of 2006, got the upgrade to vista, used that until i started with win7 rc. i did need the motherboard replaced, totally free-my audio connector had died. there have been no problems since and soon will have it's 4th os installed so that will take care of the reformat for me. i see no reason yet to get a new one. pc stats has me in top 32% with this nearly 3 yr old job and it keeps on ticking.
this is a message in response to the one sent by undulatingacrobat - 8/22/09 8:00 am in reply to: asus by rickb81 i can confirm that robert diaz is a liar and a crook. asus produces junk that is not sold or supported properly. retailer and manufacturer both refused to refund, even though they can admit to have sold and supported the item incorrectly.
custom built computer s are soooo much better and i highly reccomend it (if you have the experience and know what you are doing). by building your own computer, you get the options of choosing the performance of the machine. such as speed, look, and hardware components. atleast by this way, you know what you are putting in the system and you know that it's not going to be some cheap knockoff part that the company has installed. not to mention the programs, crappy anti-viruses like norton always get put on machines and they are crap! this way, you add your own trusted software that you like! (p.s. if you don;t know what you're doing, then... learn :p)
as i said, i got the gateway nv53 for just about $500, and i like it as much if not more than most desktops i've used. it's just an average computer as far as it's guts, but i am very impressed. it is a great looking machine, and it's survived my 3 year old stepping on it with no issues, and it screams. it's got a few goodies in it too. it's 500gb, 4gb ram, it's an amd athlon? ii x2 dual-core processor m300 (2.00 ghz, 1 mb l2 cache, 2ddr2 667 mhz, 35 w)i know 2 ghz is a smaller processor, but i absolutely can not tell on this machine. i am now a gateway customer 4 life!!
this woman, shantelle, will not even return my phone calls. i'm looking to start an asus lemon page over on facebook for people to share their experiences with this company. be sure to come looking under the page name, asus lemon page.
well i have very good experienced with hp technology, i'm still using hp pc and i found it better in all other technologies, drivers are easy to fine while in laptop i'll prefer to have dell. thanks
since my post in 2008, i have personally experience a decline in product quality, and have seen a sharp decline in the quality of products, and support from hp. although, this has been disappointing, i have seen a sharp increase in the quality of products, support, and market share of apple products. while i highly recommend and regard the lenovo thinkpad products, i am now equally convinced that the apple macbook pro is by far a superior product to most every other platform today. to be honest, if i had to buy a computer tomorrow, i would be torn between the latest thinkpad and the macbook pro. i also have removed the ms windows vista business, from my thinkpad in favor of linux ubuntu 11.10.
very happy. using it for last eight years. susanhk thank you
very happy. using it for last eight years. susanhk thank you
the heart of any system is it's motherboard and it's processor. everything else is to support that. custom built may cost less or more, depending on what one wants. i did a &quot;virtual&quot; custom build by looking for best prices the other day for a low power linux system and the cost for all new parts (case, psu, cpu, motherboard, 4gb ram, dvdrw, 500gb hard drive oem &quot;white label&quot; type) was $200. i then looked for the lowest priced dealer of comparable build and it was $50 more, which was closer in price than i'd expected, but that included the windows 8 system which was not wanted. the custom build came out ahead on quality due to a special for corsair psu for $20 after rebates. for cheap, inexpensive computers, i don't think it matters if you get one off the department store shelf from a major manufacturer, or if you order a kit or bundle of parts and assemble it yourself. price and quality is comparable. some people like the bundle of crapware that comes along with it too. that's not the case when looking for quality. for that you can't beat a custom build both for price and getting exactly what you want. you get the case you want and added benefit it won't look like what most other people get since most buy computers off the shelf. does anyone really want an icky black dell optiplex looking case today? the case can really date the look of your system. gigabyte or asus motherboards with all solid capacitors match cpu to a superior cooling solution power supply units from corsair, antec, or thermaltake which meet 80% requirements on continuous power supply, not based on some lying &quot;max value&quot; rating. ram from crucial or kingston (hyperx) you add exactly the keyboard and mouse you want instead of paying for ones you would replace. add only the software you want installed on it, not all the extra software and advertisements and limited time offers and trial period software, ad nauseum, all that stuff you spend time trying to strip out of major brand computers. industry standard items, so greater chances for upgrades and having add-ons like video cards and tv capture cards fitting the motherboard and case dimensions. no weird &quot;l&quot; shaped motherboards, no reverse cases, no odd power units supplied only by seller, no permanently attached heatsinks on embedded processors, no floppy drive cost long after nobody uses them anymore, no &quot;daughter&quot; cards to provide sideways slots space for adding cards into already cramped space. the only way you can be completely satisfied with what you want and therefore what you get, is to build it yourself.
for the past 8 years, i have only used custom built desktop computers. unless one can find a desktop that is not &quot;bloated&quot; with all the resource heavy addons, you are better off building your own &quot;basic&quot; computer with the peripherals that you really only need.
