hi all. i have 2 x 1gb of patriot ddr3 1333 ram, and 2 x 1gb of corsair ddr3 1333 ram. my motherboard (asus p5e3 ws professional) has the latest bios, and i'm running 64-bit vista ultimate. both of these dual channel memory modules work fine as a pair. however, when i try to have both pairs running for a total of 4 gb, windows won't boot. are there any steps i could take to get these modules to work together, or should i rma one? any help is greatly appreciated. thanks
is the voltage the same for both ? better choice...2-2gb dimms vice 4-1gb dimms. let us know. vapcmd
get the latest bios for the motherboard and try again. then get all the same make and try again. be sure the motherboard maker tells you the ddr3 brand/model is supported. bob
voltages for ddr3-1333 can range from 1.5v to 1.8v. the bios may be choosing a low voltage if the sticks differ. the bios may also be choosing timings that are too aggressive for one of the pairs. you can try to drop your memory speed, use relaxed timings, disable the ai transaction booster, or manually set dram voltage. you can do all of these from the ai tweaker bios menu. to drop your memory speed, set dram frequency=ddr3-1111/ddr3-1066 (whichever is available). to use relaxed timings, set dram timing control= 9-9-9-24 (or the first settings with cas latency = 9). to disable the booster, set ai transaction booster=disabled and relax level=5 . to manually set the voltages, set ai overclock tuner=manual . then scroll down and set dram voltage=1.74/1.75 (or the highest voltage of your sticks + 0.08). if one of the sticks requires 1.8v, do not use this tweak -- drop the memory speed instead. all of these options except the voltage tweak will result in slightly lower performance.
okay, i'll try tweaking the settings in the bios. the sticks are all the same voltage i believe, but the timings might be different. thanks
that didn't work at all. now the motherboard won't boot; i'm gonna clear the cmos and probly just end up rmaing the patriot ram and just go with 4 corsair.
