i jsut installed the belkin pre-n network desktop card on one of three pc's in my home. the main issie i'm having with the card is something in the device manager saying &quot;out of system resources (code 12)&quot;. i looked into this and couldn't find anything that might have conflicted with the belkin card. i looked in the the &quot;resources by type&quot; in the device manager and opened up the irq settngs and couldn't find any devies conflicting or having a problem running except for the belkin card. has anyone run into a problem like this at all?
just above every post you make should be this tip: &quot;if you are asking for help to troubleshoot a computer-related problem, please be sure to include all the necessary information (ie: operating system, model number, hardware, software, etc) that will help others identify your problem for a speedy resolution.&quot; if this is not showing, please report this to the forum feedback forum. bob
forgot to include this in the original message windows xp pro belkin pre-n network desktop card (8000 series)
some machines (which you didn't describe yours) require a motherboard driver package, a bios update or other to avoid this message. i can't help you with your issue. bob
the machine is an hp desktop (not sure model number because it diesn't belong to me) w/ a pent 4 processor. i did notice there is a built in ethernet connection on the mother board that may be causing the conflict. are you suggesting that i turn off/disable something in the bios?
i'll figure this one out and let you know what i find. my problem is with an older system that i pieced together. we just happen to find we want it wireless. but i bought the pre-n router and the card so why not(both for a total of $120). just can't seem to narrow down what the conflict is yet.
have you tried to disable the internal nic ethernet port? naturally, you wont be using it if you are going wireless. that should free up some resources. also, just more food for though....try also uninstalling the pre-n card and reboot and install the drivers/software again. good luck.
