i'm set to purchase a replacement pc for my office and have been looking at the hewlett packard's and sony avaio's i don't need a computer high in graphic or media capabilities but rather, one that will handle wordprocessing, databases, some desktop publishing but most importantly, accounting software. i would also want good display quality as the majority of my day is spent within the accounting program and a good display is very important. i have heard that xp professional might be the preferred os for running standard business software can anyone give me some hints on what is the best choice?
since you didn't say what your budget is i'll just give some general info. for the most part just about any new pc will do the job. since none of the software you are using places a high demand on the pc. so, 2.8 ghz. processor 512mb ram, 120gb hd, 128mb video card will do the job. get nice 19&quot; lcd or crt display. xp pro has better networking and security than home xp. you didn't say what you office has 1 pc, multi pc, server?? do you need on site service? fast responce time? if you have problems? so a little more info would be helpfull. john
given that your not doing any sort of graphics the purchase of 128mb boards will chew up between $40-$250 depending on the boards you select which is $40-$250 better spent elsewhere since your doing mass multi-tasking and the like i would suggest a machine of the following set-up, and it will cost around the same as his suggestion, if not a little more, but it would get the job done (i always start the most expensive position, and work my way down, most people start the ground and build up) cpu - pentium 4 3.2ghz with em64t (it's an lga 775 chip, 630 i believe) ram - 1gb dual channel ddr2 (idk what speed is correct, i think ddr2 533 is though, or ddr2 400) hdd -  ^ avliable in ata-133 for about $30 less, the only difference between ata-133 and sata (at this point) is that everyone will say to get sata due to it's &quot;future proof ness&quot; and higher data transfer rates it's 133mb/s vs 150mb/s same cache and same rpm/drive your not gonna notice much...maybe a .5% performance decrease as for a monitor i'd suggest a 17&quot; lcd or a 19&quot; crt (a 19&quot; lcd is comparable to a 21&quot; crt) and given your desired job, i'd personally get a high end viewsonic 19&quot; crt, and run that refresh rate at over 80hz (lcd's strain my eyes, like, me personally, but for you it might be different (just goto the local store, and see which you prefer, lcd or crt) also, i would suggest including some form of decent-ish 2.1 or 2.0 speakers as long hours of work are passed easier with music newegg just realeased these for sale  i would strongly consider them while they will cost much more and take a bit more to cool/power it will provide a better multi-tasking set-up in addition, for gfx i'd go with intel's gma 900 it's more than enough for your needs
hmm i dont think sony sells business pcs. how r u using the computer? in a network, office, or home environmnet. do u need it for travel? how bout a laptop?
didn't get the answer you were asking for did you? the one guy that said you don't need much because of todays standards was right. if it were me though, i would definitly go with the sony. they are better quality computers. i prefer custom built but in your situation, i would buy the sony. xp pro and office xp. don't forget the amd processor instead of the intel. sony + amd = toyota camry vs. ford escort. lol! skip
