i divided my hard drive into two partitions, c:/ which contained the os, and d:/ which would be for storage. some time later the windows 7 installed on c:/ became corrupted to the point of no boot. i backed up everything necessary, formatted d:/, and installed a fresh copy of windows 7 there. it works fine, and when booting, boot manager gives me the option to boot windows 7 or windows 7, and selecting the first one boots the fresh install without a problem. note that the 217gb storage partition previously known as d:/ is now known as c:/, containing the fresh functional os, and the 80gb partition with the old corrupted os is now d. i don't know why they switched. a screenshot from disk management captures the problem:  i want to (safely) format d, containing the old corrupted windows, but cannot do so as it is the primary partition and the system partition. after formatting i wouldn't mind merging the partitions either.
why not do just that and once done, reformat the whole drive or wipe it clean. then reformat and make that whole drive available as &quot;c&quot;. all you're doing is safeguarding your old &quot;c&quot; drive data either by backup or save critial data you deem necessary. again, once done reformat. in the install the os, once it asks do you want to use the whole drive, select yes and allow to reclaim all space. however, i like to truly wipe it clean to remove all past anything and thus start fresh. once that's done, i then reformat or install the os providing it reclaims all space and proceed. i use killdisk or dban free versions for disc wiping. tada -----willy
i want to format d, which used to be c, and d is currently the primary partition and the one containing the boot info. i cannot format it in any of the usual ways, and if i circumvent the warnings and do so anyway, my computer will not boot. i would like to get rid all of the old corrupt windows data in d and merge it with c, without installing windows again.there was no option during install to use the whole drive.
since, you don't want any data from the old &quot;c&quot; partition, then proceed to use the same info i posted earlier for the current &quot;c&quot; drive. now, you want to do w/o clearing or making a mess, but you already did that when you accepted the old &quot;d&quot; partition as &quot;c&quot; making this process diffcult. you have to start all over again and remove *anything* as in prior formats, fat setup, data, etc., in order to start fresh. once all that is done, install os again and retrieve any data you saved back to re-installed pgm. folders/directories or simply from scratch again. no matter what you do outside of what i already suggested is going to be a hassle or require intense effort and still not be 100% sure it will work. if you acquire any s/w to do this, then you rely totally on it doing the job again you build on a framework of the old, even if corrected. so, if that s/w if free and available get it, otherwise you need some partition s/w to do this. look at pm, partition magic or similar. more than likely if it works will be a one-time use unless repeated faults.  hopefully one of the above should work. however, in the time involved you can do this as i suggested and clean the mess and re-install. imho, partition manager and gparted i like. tada -----willy
