i have a compaq presario sr1151nx: i changed the hd and in doing so reloaded win xp plus all the drivers which i downloaded from hp web site as i did not have the original disk with drivers. everything works fine except no audio i went to the support site for compaq and followed all their instructions and even removed and reinstalled the audio drivers and cannot get sound from the speakers. the speakers will give off a clicking sound when i plug into the mic connector. i have the model with digital audio it has 6 audio connectors plus the 2 digital audio connectors. any help would be appreciated. rlb
installing xp is getting rough on owners. was your instructions like this -&gt;  bottom line? you want that restore cd!
i wish i could find the restore cd. the instructions i received were much different than the ones you noted. the ones i got lead me thru a series of bios changes plus downloading &quot;microsoft bus driver&quot; and other procedures. this was not a downgrade from vista. this was a reinstall of windows xp this machine uses audio codecs, legacy drivers, and realtek high definition audio. i even went to realtek and tried their drivers. i guess i will try to install a audio card and see if that works. thanks for your help. rlb
i'm running into a gluttony of drivers which make me happy i've been installing windows since windows 1.0. only microsoft seems to not get it that drivers are too hard for anyone that didn't use dos. if the audio driver installs but doesn't work, hurt down the uaa from microsoft (it's in a kb somewhere) install that, uninstall the audio driver, reboot and if it's like other machines it just works. no one wants to claim rights to why it's getting so hard for drivers today. bob
i some difficulty convincing microsoft that i didn't have the hotfix they said i had it in sp2 but belarc advisor didn't show it. they finally sent it and after unzipping it i tried many combinations of installing and unistalling hotfix, drivers, etc. it just started working and i don't know why and still is. thanks for all your help rlb
i meant &quot;hunt&quot; rather than hurt. as you discovered it's likely to be uaa. that's a &quot;real new&quot; layer in the drivers so you can imagine it's causing more troubles than it solves. bob
