i have an asus a78nx-e mother board that i have two hard drives that i want to be able to choose from one or the other at boot time which one i want to boot into. one hard drive is xp and the other is mandriva linux. currently, both jumpers are set to master. my ribbon cable has a connectors for two hard drives. is there any way to do this?
is there a reason why you don't want dual boot?
when one is only working off of one hard drive. please enlighten me. two hard drives can be dual booted the same as one? it's early and i just had my coffee.
just be sure that you are installing linux on the slave drive (2nd harddrive) and if you want complete isolation, you might have linux boot off of the floppy, that way, linux will not touch the mbr of the master hdd.
the jumpers on the linux drive would be set to...slave? and cabled on the intermediate connecter? i actually don't have a floppy drive, but two cd rom drives. i think i need to contact my motherboard mfgr and see if a boot manager is available for this. i would prefer to stay totally clear of touching the mbr on the one drive, for sure. thoughts? thanks.
there's nothing they can do for you. no floppy, that's ok, just rule it out. just be sure to back anything that you can't afford to lost that's so. good luck with the installation, it should be smooth sailing. it should be easier than windows (you have my word).
this idea is thinking the way i want to fix this. ultimately, i just tweaked the boot order. one note fwiw, is that when i selected the boot order for the first second and third options, i found that depending on which drive i wanted to boot into, that i had to set all of the options to the same drive, i.e. first scsi second scsi third scsi in order to ensure that it would take. i discovered this by accident when it kept failing when i just set it to first hd1 second hd2 third cdrom when i did the above, it would not boot into hd2 or cdrom.
it seems to me..using the bios as a boot manager is a pain in the butte (maybe something has been change that i didn't know about). not only that, if both harddrive are on the same ide connector, i doubt it can be done. just my take on this.
