hello everyone! i need some advice on what pc to buy, because i don't understand much of a pc's specifications. i'm going to mainly use it for games, movies etc. so i want a good and a fast pc. here's the ones i consider buying, but i don't know which one. so please, can you please read through the specifications. i have compared them all three there:  you can press on the green button &quot;marker forskellene&quot; and it will highlight the differences. i don't think you really need to understand danish, as it is mostly numbers. which one should i go for, to play quality games and movies on great settings. intel core or amd? which one of the pcs has the greatest graphic card - nvidia geforce or amd radeon? can any of those pcs run games like battlefield 3, max payne 3 etc on highest settings? please help out. i really hope to get some good advices. thank you.
please ignore the third pc. i'm only interested in the first and the second pc now.
that gt620 doesn't even make anyone's list. your &quot;gamer&quot; will select a gpu from a list like this list. -&gt;  the i5 is a great choice. why do i write that? &quot;our tests demonstrate fairly little difference between a $225 lga 1155 core i5-2500k and a $1000 lga 2011 core i7-3960x, even when three-way graphics card configurations are involved. it turns out that memory bandwidth and pcie throughput don't hold back the performance of existing sandy bridge-based machines. &quot;  bob
hey. i'm not really a hardcore gamer (as some would say), just an average gamer that would like to play once in a while. i don't need to have maxed out the setings. i could be running on low settings for all i care. but i want a smooth pc with a great performance and it should be fast. i should be able to play those games, maybe not on highest, but medium would definitely do. so now my choice is either the first pc or the second one. the first one has a 3rd generation cpu, the second one has 2nd. does it matter much? what is cpu cache? seems like the second one is a bit lower on that. but would it matter, since the second one has a ram of 12gb? what about the ram speed (mhz). would i be able to feel any difference? the graphic card - which is better nvidia geforce gt620 or amd radeon hd 7470? the processor - which is better: intel core i5 or amd a10 vision? would it be the latter one, since it has 4 cpu's and the other one has 2? i heard that i5 should be better though? i'm sorry for all these questions, but i don't know a lot on this subject. thank you for your help and i hope you can answer all my silly questions!
it's like drag racing in the family van. doesn't do well at all. you have a good base but the 620 video card is a problem. as to the 7470, it may be better. hit up tomshardware for scores. as to the cpu, you picked a winner. i would not change that. bob
hey bob. i think i might go ahead and buy this:  what do you think? is it much better than the ones i suggested above?
you can view the specifications bottom of the page.
shows it has dual rails of 17a each. you will sometimes see those start to falter in a year or two. at least you know ahead of time. good value selections but i would have stuck with the i5. bob
the powersupply will start to falter in a year or two? really? would you say that's the only disadvantage of this pc? could you take a look at this link:  under &quot;stromforsyninger&quot; (means powersupply), there's a list of power supplies to choose. which one would you then recommend?
i only noted the issue because if you are in the forums, that combination shows up in a year or 2 with odd failures. remember it's not that all will do that. but it's an odd choice of products so my guess is it's about the money. sorry but there are dozens of options at that link. your prior posts looked fine as far as a working pc. as you narrowed it done i took a quick dive into the psu specs to see if it would be a single or more rail. i'd want a single rail for this setup or 20+amperes on the +12v rail. this is not an offer to write a dissertation on psu selection. bob
find what amperes you will be putting on each &quot;rail&quot;. it does not have to be exact but it should the numbers &quot;under load.&quot; now double that and add up the resulting watts. for a long life pc you'll want rails that you never exceed 50% of the amperes for each rail and for total watts you don't want to exceed 50% of the total watts the psu is rated for. if you're read power supply shootouts like  and others you learn that those ratings are usually optimistic and after a year or two are not to be believed as the part ages and loses capacity. sure you can go higher on the 50% mark and many use the 75 or 80% of the rating but it's your design. make it a good one. bob
hey! i had a friend to help me and he told me this would do the job:  what do you think?
seems nice enough. will keep you out of trouble for some time. bob
