hi, i am not very tech savy but i have a cell card for my dell 610 laptop that gets almost broadband speed and my company pays for unlimited use. i was wondering if i could use this as a connection for my home pc (both windows xp) so that i can cancel my cable modem and if so what equipment do i need to buy and how would i need to connect it? thanks in advance for your help.
bumping to front for some response. please help a newbie.
this is a pretty major configuration change for a corporate laptop. are you sure they'd want you to turn on internet connection sharing and use it in this way? if you decide to do it, you'll need some method for the two computers to talk to each other. do you have a switch at home, or a router with switch ports?
i didn't know it would be such a big deal... what would i have to do to the laptop? or could i just use the wireless cell card and hook it up to my pc at home so it wouldn't involve my laptop? i have a wireless router at home but it is not all that great, so i would need a switcher? could i just turn on sharing and then run an ethernet cord from my laptop to the switcher? if so, could it screw up the laptop? thanks in advance for the help
connecting two pc's isn't a big deal. having one computer go 'through' another to get to the internet can be a little more complicated. i don't know what you would have to do to get the cell card to work with your computer, or how your office keeps track of who's connected when. when you say switcher, i think you're referring to a switch. you can get a switch, but you'll still have to enable internet connection sharing on the office pc to allow the other computer to use it to get to the internet. you could possibly attach your second pc to the one that gets to the internet directly, but you'll need a crossover cable.
if you are willing to pull the pc card out of your laptop and insert it in your desktop, and to load the software that came with the pc card on your desktop, it can do just what you ask very simply. you can install a pc card-to-pci adapter in your desktop that will allow you to simply plug the pc card device into your desktop (this requires opening the case on your desktop and unscrewing a few screws - on a 1-to-10 difficulty scale, about a 2.5). here's an example below - about $40. after the adapter is installed, simply load the software that came with your cell card and, assuming you have good cell signal at the pc, you should be in business. model -pci2pcmcia1 vendor - startech.comfeatures- cardbus/pcmcia to pci adapter you are at the office and on the road, switching between laptop and desktop computers. if you travel but don t want the hassle and expense of buying duplicate interface cards for both your systems, startech.com has an elegant solution: the pci2pcmcia cardbus/pcmcia pci host controller card. this product allows you to use your laptop cards in both desktop and laptop machines. because it is a pci hardware solution that integrates seamlessly with windows, your peripherals work with no loss of performance or features. it supports both the 16-bit pcmcia and 32-bit cardbus standards, so you can use virtually any laptop peripheral card to expand the connectivity of your desktop computer.
thanks, i think that is the way i will go, it should be pretty easy and i think i have a free pci slot. thanks so much for all the help on this board, much appreciated.
you can set up computers to ad-hoc and then share internet connection or get a mobile router easy but costly. make sure pc card is compatible with router.
hi, not a techie myself. you should be able to buy a card from any wireless cell phone stores or online (ebay, etc.) and (usb) connect. but before you invest, i would check configuration settings. not sure if licensing will be an issue. but as long as you are in range for that particular service provider, you should be able to connect.
