i have a sony vaio, rs420 with 77gb available, windows xp sp2. i rec'd a printer server (motorola wps870g)and a wireless-g w/speed booster adapter (linksys wmp54gs) from my son-in-law for christmas. i wanted to be able to use my second printer from across the room. after i installed the adapter i realized i needed a router. (which i had asked my son-in-law about but he didn't think i needed one) i purchased a router (linksys wireless g broadband wrt54gs) yesterday. i am confused now about the set-up. my adapter directions said i could use a thumb drive to download the settings of my different peripherals and then connect back to my desktop. my second printer has only ethernet ports. my printer server directions say to connect it first to my routerand then to the printer server and then to disconnect and connect to my printer after using the cd. is there an easy way to get all these working together. i just want to be able to access the printer across the room without running wires across the room. also it says,to hook up the router, i need the cable connection info, which i don't have. this also might be a stupid question, but is it possible to use a monitor without connection to the desktop, wireless monitor? i also have a scanner that i have no room for on my desk that i would like to access. sorry this is so long. i've never submitted a question before. i try to read up first but i'm past beginner questions but don't know enough about this not to have to ask.
let's see you have now: sony vaio, rs420 1. wireless-g w/speed booster adapter (linksys wmp54gs) 2. a router (linksys wireless g broadband wrt54gs) 3. printer server (motorola wps870g) - 4. second printer has only ethernet port (connect this, directly to the router)... --- if you only need this printer to be networked, you don't need the print server --- question, what about the first printer?? --- and a scanner, that you want to connect wirelessly (i don't think you can do this, you need a scanner with a network/wireless capability) and you want a wireless monitor (for this, what you need is a monitor that have a wireless feature, google it.. you might find one, maybe one that used bluetooth) now, the basic connection would be: cable/dsl modem --&gt; access point/router (linksys wireless g broadband wrt54gs) ---&gt; computer and other devices, such as, printer server (motorola wps870g) --&gt; printer, network printer, etc. first, you need to make sure your wired and/or wireless network works and function as it would. then (if you still need it) connect your print server to the router, and install the drivers (read the manual, and follow step by step -- you may need to add port and ip address into it) then, connect the (first printer, if you like, using usb or parralel port), to the print server, and install the drivers on every computer that need it... (you need the information that you get when you install the print server, such as port name and ip address) --- remember, that the second printer, already have an ethernet port, that you connect directly to the router!! --- i hope you get the picture of what i'm talking about. good luck
thank you for your quick response. i will try setting this all up and let you know how it worked. i do not have a laptop or other computer that needs to access these printers and scanner. i have an epson printer hooked up to my desktop computer (the one i just installed the adapter in) i just need to be able to access the hp photo printer across the room and wishfully the scanner too. i have no room on or near to my desk for the second printer and scanner. i can't tell if i needed the router at all or just the printer server and adapter. i guess i'll just have to try them both ways. thanks again.
if you have a wireless router/access point. i would just share all of the devices while connected to the tower, the tower must be on to access them but the wireless print server is not going to work properly with a mulitfunction device! if you attach everything to the tower and share it across the network you should be able to find and install all of the devices remotely without the print server at all.
