i have an hp pavilion g6. i got this computer on christmas of 2011. so i've had it for about a year and a half. it was working just fine up until about october 2012. out of nowhere, my computer blue screened. after it blue screened, i would try to turn it on and it would claim i had a disk read error. first, i tried to do a hard drive test, and it said the hard drive was fine...but it obviously wasn't (i thought at the time). when i went home for thanksgiving, i told my dad about it and he got me a new hard drive. so i go back to school and my computer was working fine. then, about a week before christmas, it started doing the same thing, except it was even worse. it would only turn on about half the time. i still had a warranty on it so i sent it in to hp for them to look at it and hopefully fix it. they sent it back about a month later and it was working great. in an e-mail they sent me after sending it back, it showed the new parts they put in it. they put a new hard drive, even though i told them i was sure it wasn't the hard drive. but oh well, it worked for a good 2-3 months and then started doing the same thing again. it blue screened and kept saying there was a disk read error or that it could not read the disk or that there was no hard drive at all. i was on my third hard drive. clearly, the hard drive is not what is wrong with my computer, but no matter how many damn people i call about it, all they say is, it's the hard drive. no it's not damn it. there's something else wrong with my computer, obviously, and it's still very young so this is absolutely ridiculous and i'm not about to go buy a new computer now, especially if i can solve this. anyone have any idea what's going on here? has this ever happened to anyone else? any help would be appreciated. i'm a poor college kid that really needs this laptop for the upcoming school year.
my last hp (which i mean literally unless hp ever makes good on that one) was 3 months old, and after 8 hours on the phone they took it in. it returned in a week and never ran for more than 5 minutes then lock up. all calls ended with &quot;we've done all we can&quot; and after 9 months i called it quits then share the story here. you don't want it fixed. you want a refund. bob
as stated by robert, try to go for a refund or possible upgrade to a different laptop if they offer it. here's what happened, via my wag. some laptops, to include hps get darn hot or have a hot spot, which means the electronics cause some havoc somewhere and the weakest link gets whacked. in the case for the hd, that could result in its not tracking correctly either because the electronics can't compensate or the areal(data r/w) operations get so out of spec, it doesn't make sense when cool until it returns to state of the r/w data was written if it hasn't failed during the meantime. heat is electronics worse enemy and in laptops is part and parcel what causes alot of issues. the time you had no problems, suggest it works until it finally reached a point where some weak link gave-in to include hd electronics on itself or mtrbd. i/f. i see no where if you ever cleaned or use laptop cooler fan setup, which may help. you seem to think it isn't the hd, but every time the hd gets replaced it seems to work for some time. so, take that as a clue. tada -----willy
