the only parts i am not sure about are the motherboard and the power supply. i don't know if thats enough for all that stuff. also, on the motherboard i doubt i am ever going to do sli for an 8800. and i am also only going to have one (maybe one more) sata hard drive in there and one older hard drive. i do know that i plan on having this computer a while though so should i go for a good mobo like that or does it not matter? thanks in advance guys.
motherboard needs ddr2, not ddr.
heh figures it wasn't going to be that easy.. i just went with the best seller and i knew ocz was good.. ok thanks for that anything else anyone?
you have two mouse listed? a gaming one and a laser? do you really need the intel core 2 extreme? yes it is best but you pay some 3-400 more for it. also there is rumor that the prices well drop on all these dual cores sometime in july augs. if you can wait this same extreme well be around 2-300 from what it sounds like.
evga nforce 680i sli nvidia socket 775 atx motherboard w 4gb ram core 2 extreme qx6800 2 nec multisync lcd3210-bk 32&quot; lcd monitors radeon x1650 pro, but i'm upgrading that next week 2 seagate 500gb 7200rpm sata hdd the motherboard is excellent and the bios easily supports overclocking. good choices.
hey madtownidiot, i'm planning to build a new system with the qx6800 processor. now, i've been looking everywhere to try and find this processor, but no luck. i read somewhere that intel only sells it to oem companies like dell, alienware, etc, but not to hardware retailers like newegg, tigerdirect, etc. so my big question is: where did you buy your qx6800 from ? i really really wanna know. thanks a million.
there's very little difference between the qx6700 and the qx6800 except that maybe you can oc a qx6800 a little more i get mine from a company called maingear through a personal connection, but they're not generally available except to computer manufacturers, although that will probably change in about a month when intel lowers their prices
