so, here is my problem. i bought a asus n6600, and it ran fine for about a day, and then basically anything 3d heavy looked like this:  i thought it was the card, so i sent it back, and recieved a new one(same model) a week later. no change. i can only assume its my computer, since i tested it on my friend's computer and it was fine. what could be the problem? a friend suggested it was overheating, but whenever i check, the gpu is always under 40c, usually the same for the cpu. this is really starting to bother me. what is causing this? i have a p4 2.20ghz, with a gig of ram. my motherboard is a gigabyte ga-8s650gxm (i can post full spec report if needed) also, yes,i have every driver posssible and everything updateable updated. please help!
running any tweak tools for your graphics card eg, ati tray tool. what card is it???
like i said in the post, its an asus n6600 (nivida 6600) i'm not using anything to tweak my card, the only thing i've got is the drivers off nvidia's site.
note: if you're asking for technical help, please be sure to include all your system info, including operating system, model number, and any other specifics related to the problem. power supply? how many watts?
i've got a 350w power supply, some no name brand.
on the day after you installed it and it failed. new drivers, other software, hardware, anything? if yes revert back to that day and add them in one at a time. if no, look for a hardware problem. did your previous graphics card have a fan and draw power or is this a new load on that power supply? what size p/s is your friend using?
before i got this card i had a radeon 9200 se, which had something wrong with it (with it, comp would constantly freeze, even on other computers). it didnt have a fan, this one does though. when i got the card i thought it might be the power supply, so i changed the 250 watt with a 350 watt, but it was pretty cheap, and i've heard it can cause problems. also, yesterday i thought it might be the ram, so i ran a momory test program, and i got some interesting results. when i tested each stick of ram individually, i got no errors, but together, i did get some. i tried running hl2 with just one stick, and after 15 muinites or so, it went haywire, much like when using both sticks. so i dont think its the ram. with ram and video card ruled out, i gues the power supply could be it. could it be the motherboard?? can a software problem cause these types of severe graphical glitches (see screenshot in first post.
that the artifacting is caused by your psu. you may want to upgrade that. you can check this by looking at your current voltages in your bios, or by downloading a program that will show you your current voltages. check your 12v. if it's running around 11.5 or lower then that is most likely the problem.
i went into the boot menu thing, and watched the voltages for about a min, and this is what it looked like 3.3v was 3.29 or 3.31 5v was 5.16 12v was 12.09 or 12.16 or 12.22
