i currently own a low-end monochrome laser printer (the samsung ml-2510, which replaced a brother laser printer that was a hand-me-down from work) and an epson perfection 3490 flatbed scanner (used for approx. 90% of my product images in my ebay auctions). the scanner sits on my computer desk, while the printer is on a repurposed rolling wooden tv cart (quite roomy)next to the computer desk. when the time comes to replace either the printer or the scanner, should i replace both at once with a (prob. inkjet) multifunction machine (no more expensive than the combined cost of 2 single-function machines ($200?), but pref. much less)? or (assuming one can still get standalone flatbed scanners priced for home-office use by then) should i stick with my current setup of a separate printer and scanner (bulkier, but roomy scanning surface, and (theoretically) cheaper per/copy cost for laser toner)? any suggestions would be greatly appreciated.
unless conserving space is more important than quality and/or reliability, i'd buy products dedicated for one purpose each. all-in-ones are space savers but none can produce the quality of dedicated components. as well, all-in-ones share electronics and a failure of shared parts causes the whole thing to be a goner. it really comes down to user choice and need but, yes, you can find dedicated flatbeds or those with document feeders if you really need them. as for inkjet, versus laser printing, the choice is yours again. inkjets can still do a better job with some graphics but the cost per page is much higher. laser printers do an excellent job with text and the cost per page is much lower than inkjet. i'd never recommend inkjet types to anyone who prints very little as the cost per page goes up dramatically due to extra cleaning cycles and sometimes lost cartridges due to clogging. the main problem with laser printing is sticker shock when it's time to replace toner. but, you can get thousands of printed pages per cartridge with some laser printers and, hopefully, the printer will last until an expensive cartridge is empty. hopefully this doesn't add more confusion to your decision process. good luck.
i have a separate nice hp scanner and little brother laser printer and an hp photosmart inkjet printer. then my husband needed to print out large 11x17 printouts so we got a brother all-in-one. boy is it nice to have. it's not even hooked up to a computer all the time. we just plug in the usb when we need to print from it. and you don't have to have the computer on just to make a photocopy. just walk up and copy. just like a real office copy machine!
i loved my old brother laser printer -- i'd gotten used to it at work, and i could get high-yield house-brand toner cartridges for it pretty cheap from quill (the other office-supply chains all seemed to carry house-brand toner for it, too). i'm curious as to which brother multifunction machine you got; my local pamida store carries 2 different models (plus a current-model brother monochrome personal laser printer). none of the brother printers are currently on sale at pamida; however, since they usually put one printer on sale each week, i can get one locally at a decent price if i'm willing to wait. (maybe their price-matching policy would stretch to same-model printers on sale at those out-of-town office supply chain stores, too!) i'd like to match the scanner size of my current standalone scanner (the epson 3490 scans originals up to 8.5&quot;x14&quot;); i also like the idea of having separate cyan/magenta/yellow cartridges instead of a single multicolor cartridge (sounds less wasteful that way). it sounds like you got a &quot;tabloid-size&quot; multifunction machine; where did you get it, and how much did it cost?
got it for him for christmas 2009. at staples, it was 119.99 ($80 dollars off of 199) we really like it. it has the color cartridges. i even bought an extra paper tray for it so i can keep regular size paper in one and the 11x17 ledger paper in the other. very easy to switch, pull one out and slide the other in. it's accross the room from my desktop computer. i bought a real long usb cord and just plug it into my computer if i want to print to it. but usually my husband plugs his laptop into it. my laser is a brother hl-2140.
it was a real workhorse, too -- until it died. i googled your brother mfc-5890cn, and saw that cnet really savaged it in their review (although it got fairly decent user reviews). i could have sworn the scanning surface of my epson 3490 was legal-size (which would have made multifunction devices with 8.5&quot;x11.7&quot; scanning surfaces (f.ex. cnet's top-rated lexmark s305 &amp; s605) problematic choices. however, i finally got out a measuring tape to measure the 3490's scanning surface -- and it's only about 9&quot;x12&quot; (to fit european a4 paper originals?) -- so it's not that big after all. no big immediate rush on getting a new printer or scanner for me, so i can wait for a really good sale or coupon special (or the next time i get a big amazon.com credit from sending off my oldest's college textbooks to their buyback program! ).
i just measured the top of my repurposed wooden tv cart/printer stand, and it's about 15&quot;x26&quot; - a great fit for my current samsung ml-2510 laser printer, but not quite deep enough for a brother mfc-5890cn like the one that volvogirl &amp; her spouse own. at least now i have a upper limit to look for with the dimensions of a replacement printer or multifunction machine!
here's a link to it:  the article goes at the question from the angle of how much scanner one needs. of course, how much printing one does, what kind of printing one does, and whether or not one needs to do that printing in color would also be relevant considerations. laser toner cost/page vs. inkjet cartridge cost/page would also be worth considering. for example, oem samsung toner cartridges for my current laser printer run about $80, and are rated for 3,000 pages each. (those seem very expensive, though, so i've been buying generic compatible toner cartridges on ebay for approx. $30 each including shipping -- but i'd prefer house brand toner cartridges from an office supply chain, if anyone made them for the samsung.) how much would inkjet cartridges for that many pages cost? (i'm guessing they'd be more expensive, but let's assume a best-case scenario of a mfp brand which already has cheap name-brand regular (&amp; high-yield, where available) ink cartridges and/or widely-available even cheaper house-brand or generic compatible ink cartridges, plus separate cyan/magenta/yellow cartridges instead of a single multicolor cartridge (in addition to the black cartridge).)
since you have a home-based business, i suggest you buy an inkjet multi-function printer when you can and retire your flatbed scanner while it is still working. put the scanner in storage for emergency-backup use, and continue using the monochrome laser printer (especially for shipping/mailing labels that won't smear if they get rained on) until it finally quits. this way, you already have a backup printer on your desktop as well as a way of handling color print jobs when necessary. cost-per page is generally higher for inkjets than lasers, so plan on replacing the monochrome inkjet when it finally gives up the ghost. i would not suggest a color laser printer as your only home-business printer; i gave one away because i seemed to be replacing one of the four toner cartridges every time i turned around, even though we didn't do a lot of color printing. (it's called &quot;four-color black&quot; printing, and it happens with inkjets too.) my household has three printer/scanner combos -- a several-years-old hp photosmart 2610, a two-year-old canon pixma mp620 and a one-year-old canon pixma mp620. the hp was a good small-business printer when i bought it, and it still works well after doing more printing and scanning than i care to think about. the two newer canons are faster, considerably smaller, give better results both scanning and printing, and cost less than the bigger machine. i like the canons a lot, but they were bought strictly for home use, and neither has gotten much of a workout yet, so i don't know how they would hold up long-term in a home-based business.
i bought a brother dcp-j125 (their current bottom-of-the-line inkjet multifunction printer) on sale from my local pamida for $49.95 (and immediately stocked up on compatible ink cartridges (15 for $22) from ebay). the color printouts are certainly attractive, and the included bookscan enhancer software will streamline a lot of the product-image scanning i do for my ebay auctions. however: 1) i thought access to my day job's fax machine would be sufficient -- until a problem came up over the weekend, which i could have dealt with a lot faster, had i had a home fax of some kind. 2) the paper cassette on the brother only holds 100 sheets, whereas i'm used to 250-sheet paper trays on laser printers i've used. (a minor inconvenience, having to refill paper more frequently, but it's there nonetheless.) 3) i don't like the included paperport software (too complex for convenient editing of ebay product-image scans). i tried upgrading arcsoft photoimpression 5 (which came with my old epson scanner) to version 6.5, but decided i really prefer the old version (which, when patched, works fine with windows 7). i now plan to buy a used standalone copy of photoimpression 5, so i'll still have a program disc for it, even if i sell the old scanner. 4) i thought that the scanning glass would be about the same size on my old epson scanner & the new brother dcp-j125 (i had measured the epson's glass before buying the brother); however, the scannable area of the brother seems to be slightly smaller. i now wish i had held out for an mfp with at least a legal-size flatbed scanner -- even if that would have meant springing for a larger printer cart as well. i will still &quot;make do&quot; with the dcp-j125 for now, but may well start saving up for an even nicer mfp down the road.
