when using my laptops in the other end of the building from the present router, the wireless is disconnected, and signal is zero, because of many walls in between. rather than spending on wireless extenders, or repeaters, or antennas, i thought of plugging in a second dsl modem into the phone outlet in that other end of the building. this means i would need to buy a second router for that second setup. so, is there such a thing as a combo modem/wireless router available, that i can just plug a cable into the phone outlet (like a conventional dsl modem), and then 4 wired connections to computers from the same combo unit, plus getting the wireless capability? sorry for this wordy description. if any info, would appreciate links to some vendors or models. thanks.
my home can accomodate 2 dsl modems and my dsl supplier has that device you ask for. but the charge would be another 39 bucks a month to turn on the second dsl line. seems rather steep, but it can be an option for those willing to pay. bob
thanks for your prompt reply bob. expensive - i'll find an alternative. i thought it's like plugging in a second phone into another phone outlet.
you can find a multitude of adsl2 modem/wireless router combos everywhere at very reasonable pricing - or even used/ good working condition on ebay for less than $20. you are correct in that they can plug directly into your phone jack - dsl filters are only for phones/ faxes where you do not want a dsl on the line, otherwise as stated - no filter in the jack & you have a instant access to dsl which the modem is plugged into. word of advice, stay away from 2wire modems if you can - especially if you're looking to get some range out of the device . . . they are horrible & setting up or using wpa is a complete nightmare. i have heard that linksys cause some a bit of a headache also when initially setting them up - but there are very good, reasonably priced modem/router combos by d-link (my favorite, mainly b/c i'm used to the interface), belkin & am currently looking into a few new ones myself by zoom (x6 model, for example), etc. one other thing to make sure of is the compatibility - 802.11b/g should be fine for all computers/ laptops/ netbooks these days & 802.11n has even faster speeds/ range without much interference (i.e. portable phones, etc.), but make sure you're compatible - or at least that they are backward compatible w/ 802.11b/g & you're off to the races
the answer in 2005 means that old answer has expired. let's lock this old post so it drops in time.
