i am thinking about getting a usb modem from verizon for my home internet. i was wondering if there was a wireless router out there that could use one of these as an internet input. that way me and my wife could use it at the same time. any such beast in existence?
just recently i used my droid, easythether, a windows 7 netbook, ics and a router to do this. i must decline all the details since to do this you must be able to take the clues i offered and run with it or it's not a solution for you. i bet something similar could be rigged up using your laptop and a common router but again unless you have a firm grasp on networking this is not a solution. try this. goto 3grouter.com and see if that is what you want. bob
i found out verizon sells &quot;mobile hotspots&quot; which sound like just what i want. thanks for the reply!
a few thoughts on it. 1. beware the caps. if you exceed you byte limits, it's very expensive. 2. they do not discount the plan on this. my droid costs me less per month than the wifi mobile hotspot without a cap (for now.) 3. there were some that made claims the units overheat but mine ran 24x7 and was fine for the weeks we used it. bob
i am looking into this as a temp source of inet for the next 6 months. we are renting a house for 6 months, and pickings are slim there. sat(expensive) dial up( yea, right) or cell use. verizons 3g is really good there. since it is only 6 months i am not going with a 2 year plan, which means it will not be really be cheap either way. any other good ideas out there?
ask verizon if you are in their 4g coverage area. they are going live today dec 5 with their lte system. i have used this when they were testing and it is very fast we were streaming (ie transmitting) hidef video from a moving car. work very well considering that you cannot buffer outgoing live video. have not had time to read the fine print on their contract but they implied they were going to offer a tiered plan so you could by what you need. sprint/clear if you can get it offers a true unlimited 4g plan but in theory lte will be faster but we will see who is telling the truth.
there are air card rentals like rovair. but why not look at the six months and cost in breaking the contract? just pay the man for the breakup and what does that work out for the six months? here i got a discount on the droid and it costs less than the hotspot. i'm keeping this one. bob
thanks for all the ideas. no, i will not be living in 4g land. i will look into rentals, though.
