i'm a big tron nerd so was really looking at the tron keyboard by razer, but it appears to be a terrible keyboard unless you only want to look at it. bummer. i got to thinking though i really do need a new keyboard. i'm not an expert, but i believe i need a mechanical keyboard. i see a lot of discussion about &quot;cherry&quot; and &quot;switches&quot;. i can type pretty fast and am beginning to see how inefficient my old microsoft keyboard is and how hard i have to press to type. i'm looking for effortless and responsive typing. i do a ton of typing and want high end all around great typing. that being said i want it to look outstanding as well. cool lighting is much preferred. so far the only keyboard i have found online to be mechanical and have neat lighting is the black widow ultimate, but again i am not an expert and can use any and all advice you all have on keyboards. please let me know what is out there that would be good for me. i appreciate the help! --jwhyrock
has a few models.
although they are really designed with gaming in mind, i really like the logitech g series of keyboards. there is a g15, g11 and some new ones. i have the g11. the keyboard has a nice feel to type on, not clicky buttons, but not soft and squidgey either. they allow you to turn off the lights, have them dimmed or full brightness. one of the main reasons they are gaming keyboards is because they come with extra programmable shortcut buttons, but i find these useful out of games. i write a lesson plan every week for school, and it is in essentially the same style each time. so, i simply have the shortcut buttons set up linked to macros. i have the first 6 buttons linked to sentences that i use often in the document. for example, i use &quot;the children develop&quot; all the time, so that is key g6. i hit that in word, it types it right out for me. i have 2 other buttons set up to auto format. so i highlight some text, hit g10 and it formats the size, font and bold settings to my standard. these button also have three memory settings, so you could set up on group of shortcuts for word, another for excel, and a third for outlook or something, and simply switch between them at the touch of a button. hope this helps.
