i first posted this in the windows xp forums but it seems this is a software/hardware issue. i'm having difficulty with my system booting. i'm using windows xp pro. the problem started while booting my system one morning and it froze midway through the process. it was at the screen with the windows xp logo and the boxes going across the progress bar, it would get roughly half done and then freeze. i was able to log into the computer using the &quot;last known good configuration&quot; setting. windows informed me that the system had recovered from a serious error. it said it was caused by a device driver. the only thing i've changed recently on the system was the video card. i installed a radeon 9800 pro about 2 weeks ago and up to this point it has worked fine. but since i've gotten the system back up, i've tried reinstalling the drivers twice but to no avail. each time the system freezes during the boot process. i've searched ati's site for help but i haven't found anything that directly relates to my problem. screens now scroll strange (it's like it goes a screen at a time rather than a smooth scroll). i've tried scandisk, norton anti-virus, i've checked spyware. i then switched back to my old radeon 8500le card and the system boots fine. i installed the drivers and there was no problem. could an insufficient power supply cause a freeze in the boot up? or is it likely a defective card?
read
you're new 9800 is far more demanding than your old 8500 model. i would crtainly consider a new power supply in the 400w+ range. don't settle for a cheap one either, but at least get a 350w unit, but strongly suggest that 400w+. pricing isn't that bad, but better ones do cost, so be prepapred. on top of that, since you mentioned it worked again after returning the old video card, don't try the new until the new p/s is installed. you can further test by unhooking the cd drive(s) and verify under bios that they're gone for a temp. fix and quick check. if it boots up w/o a glitch, then p/s unit. good luck -----willy
so a lack of power could actually cause the boot sequence to stop midway through? i had no idea. how does this power supply look? is it too cheap?
try removing some devices to see if the problem clears up (as the power draw decreases). disconnect the cd and floppy and see if it goes through a clean boot? if yes add the devices back in one at a time until it fails. if it always fails with the new video in, you probably need to look elsewhere. check file dates past last good configuration to see what else besides the drivers changed.
the power supply. while i can't say your problems will go away by simply replacing the psu, if you plan on upgrading your pc a properly rated psu is a must. others will say their system is running fine on insufficient power....it is only a matter of time. your boot problems, i believe, are due to the card itself or flaky drivers. drivers not uninstalled before changing cards or out of date drivers can cause your ills. ati has been known for iffy drivers. install drivers from the cd? i'd go to the site and get the most current. wish you luck, tom
i tried the drivers from the ati site three times and each time it caused the boot sequence to freeze up. then i tried the dirvers off the cd and had the same result. the thing that really has me puzzled is the fact that the system worked fine for two weeks with the 9800.
i can't be sure if this will help you but i have a radeon 9600 card that that has not worked properly with any issue of new drivers since september. i posted my problem in these forums as well. i waited through several new catalyst sets thinking ati would pick up on this if it were a driver issue. my problem is that my monitor would go into what looked like a standby mode when the xp spash opened. then it would reboot and try again. eventually it would start but i received a message about recovering from a serious error pointing to the radeon device or drivers. so far the solution has been to use older drivers and wait for ati to address the problem. my os is also xp pro and my psu is a 430w antec. the system is not overloaded with devices so i don't think my problem has anything to do with it since i have another computer with 9 ide devices, a radeon card and 3 more add in cards with only a 400w supply and it never wimpers. radeon has older drivers available so i'd get the oldest first and, if it works, move up as far as you can before the system hangs. good luck
....return/exchange the card. if it's a few weeks old you shouldn't get a hassle about an exchange. good luck, tom
