when i play video games, the game will speed up and become really jerky. i've only experienced this with san andreas. i've tried turning the settings down and the jerkiness still happens. is it an overheating problem with my cpu or ram or hdd??? i've been monitoring my video card temps with ati tool and it doesn't get past 45 degrees c with my ati silencer cooler. just to let you know, my rig is: -athlon x2 4200+ -radeon x850xt -1 gb ram -80gb 7200 rpm it's really annoying and i can't play san andreas. i'll try out some other games and let you know what happens. thanks for any help in advance.
it's not overheating; just running the game on two cpu's messes it up. while you're running the game, open task manager, right click on the thread, and move it to cpu 0 or 1.
thanks!!! it's a little bit troublesome to set this each time i want to play my older games. will the next generation pc games support dual core? (such as the elder scrolls iv: oblivion???) thanks again!
drivers, bios are out of date. what motherboard drivers did you use? also, after the motherboard drivers are updated (don't use any microsoft button please) look up reclock. bob
i gamed for about an hour with nathan's suggestion of only using one of the cpu's. everything worked without a hitch. i do have a problem with ati's driver. it will never update (and i've tried many times). i download them from ati's website (  ) i uninstall the previous drivers and ccc, restart, use driver cleaner pro to remove all previous files, and restart again. i then install the stuff from the above website. the driver remains the same, while the ccc is updated. just to clarify, the latest driver version is not 8.231.0.0, right??? any suggestions? the bios seems to be working fine, though. thanks ahead of time!
there are multiple solutions to this issue. i've cured this with bios, drivers, reclock and more. sometimes i meet someone that insists there can be only one solution. bob
...there was only one solution to the problem.
i only offer other solutions that have worked for me. bob
was that i never said that there was only one solution. my idea just happened to fix this one, but i'm sure that there are other ones as well. by the way, sorry if i po'd you; i didn't mean to
