&quot;in fact, there are only three non-overlapping channels, 1, 6 and 11.&quot; that's a great nugget of information if you are moving your channels about to get away from some interference. bob
very interesting article. i have just obtained and returned a d-link 624 g router because the new firmware would not allow me to select a channel. the article implies that, when operating in the 108 mode, you lose the ability to select channels. what was frustrating was that no one in tech support at d-link had a clue as to why i was locked in on channel 6. it appears that this simply is the way the implementation is suppose to work. i also found posts about the netgear 108 product where people are complaining about being locked into only one channel. is this truly the way the implementation is suppose to work? if so, would you not think that the vendor's own tech support would know this? harvey
in the outsourced support, they are usually spoonfed what someone thinks they need. i find today's outsourced support to not have a ready path back to the developers or someone who can look into the issue. as you rightly discerned, that mode spills over the channels so there is no way they should allow you to flip channels in that proprietary mode. bob
out of curiosity, i went back to the d-link site and brought up the 108g documentation. under the faq, an answer to &quot;enabling the super g mode&quot; also stated that only channel 6 can be used. i obviously missed this when i originally checked out the site. amazing that tech support did not know this. as a result i returned a functioning router and d-link lost a sale. fwiw, i was trying this router because of a perceived issue with a belkin wireless g router with which i was intermittently losing the internet connection from my motorola sb4200 cable modem ( i have posted about this on this group a few weeks ago). after returning the d-link, i went out and purchased (with the right to return) an rca cable modem since the sb4200 was also a suspect (comcast would not allow me to have a new modem since it &quot;worked o.k.&quot; directly connected). anyway, it now appears that the sb4200 was the problem. it's been almost 4.5 days and i've not had a disconnect (4-6 times daily with the sb4200). furthermore, my upload speeds have increased by about 20%. i'm tempted to try the d-link again except for their poor tech support and the very good support i received from belkin (sent me out a brand new, field tested router - also very easy to get to their tech support people). harvey
the issue was their router that on some number of browses would direct the user to an advertisement. the recoil was such that belkin was ... beat up on the web. bob
my problem, of course, was not related to the &quot;spying&quot; issue. my issue started before the advertisement flap. however, belkin did appear to respond (apologize) quickly. in fact, their is a new firmware update on their site (put there a few days ago) that removes the advertising code. harvey
.
