i need some ideas, i've built a new system with an msi 945 neo5-f mobo, pentium d 820 processor, 4g of kingston pc5300 ram, 2 wd 160g sata hd, nvidia 8600gt and a new 500wt power supply. when i try to boot up and load the operating system it shuts it down when i try to save the bios settings. all the components listed except the processor and video card are new. the only thing i did in the bios was to change the boot order. is this mobo defective? any ideas would be welcome.
you say you load the os. is this os a transplant from another machine?
i turned it on went into the bios to check that it had the right boot sequence then after it asks me if i want to save the settings it shuts off as soon as i hit enter.
that i will be installing a new copy of vista if i can get it to load.
check one thing. is your cpu on the support list for the version bios that is in the machine. checking the next thing -&gt; you don't need any hard disks or cd/dvd drives to save the bios settings. also, reveal what bios settings you are changing since one poorer (went to the shop counter) soul was overclocking and couldn't understand why his system would reboot on a bios save never to show a screen until the bios settings were reset with a jumper. expensive lesson about overclocking. bob
it recognized all the hardware which is what threw me initially. i think i found the problem, i was able to view the hardware monitor and the cpu temps were in the high 80's and going up. so it looks like the mb is defective and a replacement is in order.thanks for the suggestions rob, you always seem to have a good answer and i appreciate that.
properly ... loose perhaps ? no thermal paste or pad ? check it out...that's not a mb defect. vapcmd
i think i'll try that before a new board, thanks.
you're running stock cpu setting the standard heatsink should be ok ...but only if it's making full contact with the cpu heat spreader. sometimes the heatsink locks pop loose and without full contact ...the cpu heat rises rapdily. best to checj that first vapcmd
on the stock heatsink/fan a couple of the tabs seem to behaving a problem, they snap in but won't stay so it looks like i'll need a new one anyway, this one has a little mileage on it.
over at  've go great info about the hs fans especially thermal transfer and noise. from there ...you can go to your favorite source, buy it and install it. take a look at those made by xigmatek ....they've got some decent hs fans at reasonable prices ... but it's good to get the bracket kit to avoid the mounting problem. keep us posted. vapcmd
you guys and gale are top shelf! it turns out the heatsink/fan was the culprit. installed a new one and she fired right up. you saved me a great deal of hunting and i appreciate it. cheers!!!
