i have spoken with you all a few times before, about the same computer ... i've been trying to fix it since before the summer. i just got a new processor, the ram works (tested it mom's computer), and the motherboard is new, though i suppose it could have been doa. technically, the processor could be doa too, but i really hope not, because i want a working computer (that's not my mom's). hah... whenever i turn it on, the fans go, but my monitor light remains orange (inactive). i noticed something, though ... when using another monitor, instead of remaining orange, it flashes between orange and green when the computer is turned on (when off, the light is orange). computer on or off, the viewsonic e70 (my usual monitor) shows orange computer off, the compaq p50 shows orange; on, it flashes orange & green. that tells me that the monitor is getting some sort of signal stating the computer has turned on, but isn't sending signal properly. another note: the motherboard i have has onboard video, and i have a pci express x16 nvidia graphics card. i've tried with the onboard video, as well as plugging in the video card and using that. same results for both. did i receive a bad motherboard? what's newegg's policy on returning motherboards? gosh, this is frustrating ... thanks in advance for the help!
let's (repeat) a few common mistakes and a troubleshooting method i use with great success. 1. the motherboard mounting. a high percentage of new dead pc builds find an extra mounting stud on the backside of the motherboard. this in the best scenario just causes the machine to do nothing. at worst it fries the board. 2. the jumpers and cables. it's no fault of the home builder but occasionally you'll find an error on the documentation. i was burnt on this so i always try it with all ide and other cables, cards unplugged so see if it's something simple. 3. finally the 4 item test. place the psu, motherboard, speaker and the cpu with it's hsf on a piece of cardboard. no other parts! power up and it should beep in protest. this is the beep test. if it fails then you are looking at the 1 to 4 bad parts. bob
odd, i never got a reply notification. anyway, the motherboard is sitting on its static bag, on my desk. so, no shorting on the back of it. the only things present ... power supply, motherboard, cpu, heatsink & fan, ram, monitor no beeping, though the board does have an onboard speaker. any more suggestions?
as in ram is installed, we don't know if it's that. bottom line. too many parts. bob
sorry ... i missed that note. i removed the ram, turned on the computer, fan spun, no video, no beeping.
if there is a video card, ide cables, reset buttons, etc. those go too. when we get to the bottom 4 parts then we know we are looking at the 4 possible bad or badly configured parts. bob
i had the monitor hooked up, but just now i tried again without monitor, and no beeping. to re-affirm your question, the only things on the table are: power supply, motherboard (on top of static bag), cpu, heatsink/fan. out of curiosity, how much voltage does the speaker need? i could potentially put some voltage straight to it to test it ... so you know, there are nothing on the power/reset/etc jumper pins - i am turning the computer on using a piece of metal across the two power pins.
while you need to check your work (cmos clear jumpers and such) there is some that run into this dead system where the cpu and motherboard are good but doesn't boot. i made that mistake last week with a new socket 775 system. in the end i had to hit the maker's web site and my 775 dual core cpu wasn't on the list. details are missing so no one but you can check this out. bob
the jumpers are factory, though i'll check them ... and i'll check the site for my cpu compatibility i'll let ya know ... later for now
i checked the board, and it seems the only things in the way of jumpers are something called wp_en, and the cmos clear. they are both disabled. i haven't been able to check cpu compatibility yet, though i should mention that newegg did say it's compatible back when i bought it.
i see you have more work to do. it sometimes takes a few tries for people to get there. bob
i don't understand; more parts? if you're asking what's hooked up, i've already told you - power supply, motherboard, cpu, heatsink/fan what more work to do? anyway, i'll let you know about the cpu ...
is this still in the case? when i have a dead pc i strip it down to 4 and only 4 parts. this way i know it's just those 4 parts. no case, no ram, etc... bob
about a week ago, re: troubleshooting by ck87.jf - 10/14/07 7:06 am in reply to: not a failure but a dead pc you built? by r. proffitt moderator anyway, the motherboard is sitting on its static bag, on my desk. so, no shorting on the back of it. so, there is no case.
no beep means it's dead part(s), incompatible parts or we have something horribly wrong. bob
aside from trying to find a friend with an amd 939, what are my other options to figure out what's dead? i called best buy and circuit city, and for them to diagnose the problem, they both want $50.
here i have a voltmeter, spare psu, speaker so i can get such systems down to motherboard and/or cpu. but current technology only gets us to those parts. i also use the voltmeter to read the cmos battery since if it's too low you will find some boards being held in reset. bob
like you, a multimeter, spare psu, and i have another speaker on that diagnostics card, which tells me the system is okay (debug code reads &quot;ffffff&quot;). when i get home, i'll test the battery.
my motherboard's page on newegg ...  it says &quot;athlon 64 x2 / athlon 64 fx / athlon 64&quot; for the cpu specs ... i have an athlon 64 x2 i could be wrong, but i believe this is the cpu i got - i'll get my mom to check her purchase history when i can. amd athlon 64 x2 4200+ toledo 2.2ghz
