one of my computers is a (hpmx70 with a lexmarkx6150 printer), the other computer on my wireless network is a (dell 8400 with a canon ip6000d printer). i can access the internet via each computers but cannot do any printer or file sharing. i have managed to make the printers (shared) on each computer, but when i run the (add printer wizard) and browse for other printers on my network, the wizard cannot find any. all it finds is (microsoft windows network). all firewall are off. please help. thanks. whpoteat.
i've found zonealarm to have no true off setting. i've tested it in the off setting and it still was working. in this case i uninstall the firewall and try again. bob
thanks for the reply, but i don't have (zonealarm) on my conputer. any other suggestion will be happily noted.
i can't guess what firewall you have disabled. best of luck, bob
what os are you running on the pc with the shared printer? you might want to make sure the workgroup name is the same on all your machines. this is an easy one to forget. edward fox
sorry,. mcafee firewall.
i an running windows xp, also the workgroup name is the same on both computers.
i've disabled far too many and they all still work or can interfere. except that ms xp one. go figure. sorry that i can't list all the names, but i shared the zonealarm issue in hopes you can work with the clues. cheers, bob
you said you were able to share the printers so... go through the &quot;add printer wizard&quot; and add a network printer. for the printer name put the computer share name followed by the printer share name (e.g. \\my-computer\my-printer). then point it to a print driver and !viola. you can also browse to the share and install it that way as well. the easiest way to do this is start&gt;run...in the open box type in the computer name you are trying to connect to \\my-computer then click ok. the whack-whack bars are needed for the computer to understand you are looking for a network name. this should open the shares on the \\my-computer. you should notice the printer that you shared by the name you have given it. double-click the printer and it should prompt you for installation. hope this helps a bit. edward fox
i had the same problem. make sure you have a user account with permission granted that is the same name you use to sign in on the other computer. if your sign in name is john smith, create a user account with that name on the other computer and grant full access. worked for me. good luck.
how is the printer connected to the network? is it connected to the main pc (the one with the router) or is it connected to an access point on the network? i don't think that a printer with a parallel connection to the main pc can print jobs from other pcs connected wirelessly. as far as i know, the printer must be on an access point which is part of the wireless network. someone please correct me if i'm wrong because i had the same problem and was never able to share the printer with my wireless pcs. i currently have one pc connected via ethernet and i can print from that one.
i have a computer with windows xp. on line system is thru cable broadband and aol. also hooked up to a linksys wireless-g broadband router. the printer is a hp desk jet 932c. the other computer is hooked up to linksys wireless-g ntework adapter with windows me. i am able to get on line thru both computers. the computer with windows xp and connected printer work fine. i have gone thru the steps outlined on another site for sharing printers but cannot get the me computer to print to the printer attached to the xp computer. i would appreciate any help you can give me.
i have the same problem. how do i set &quot;permission granted&quot; on my host computer and &quot;grant full access&quot; on my laptop which you mention? thanks
do this on the host computer (computer that has printer directly connected to it) and all computers that wish to use that shared printer.  (follow the directions after &quot;add a trusted network for the ics client&quot;) steps: disable printer sharing on the host computer. add the trusted network (trusted range of ip addresses) to all computers. share the printer. restart all computers. now, try to find the shared printer when you add printer to non-host computers.
regardless of whether the printer is shared (connected directly to a computer) or networked (connected directly to a switch, router, wap, etc.), the problem is usually a personal firewall issue (software on each computer). the firewalls need to permit the ip addresses of all computers, printers, and other devices that need talk to one another. the problem is that many don't even know that a firewall is running on their computers; and if they do know one is running, they have no idea that the firewall needs to be configured to permit such communication. some newer firewalls autodetect the range of ip addresses of the local network and permit those by default. other firewalls have to be told what specific ip addresses or range of ip addresses are permitted or to be trusted. * * * * * the computer that hosts a shared printer doesn't care (or even know) how other computers connect (wired or wireless) to the the network. also, it doesn't matter if the printer is connected via parallel, usb, or other method.
