hi, i just bought an external dvd burner, plextor px-716uf i think it's an external version of the px-716a. but i didn't read properly before i bought it and it seems this drive doesn't burn on '-r' dl dvds only the '+r' dl disks. i'm thinking of returning it because it is my understanding that '-r' even a '-r dl' disk is more friendly with commercial dvd players... like if i burn something on a dl disk i want to make sure it will work at home not just on my computer. is this correct? if so can anyone suggest a burner i can buy when/if i return the plextor px-716uf? maybe a better burner with more capabilities? thanks in advance! ohh, i have a macintish computer so whatever burner i get has to be mac compatible.
writes: &quot;#date posted: june 15, 2005 # improved the write performance on dvd-r dual layer media.&quot; would i win a bet your firmware is out of date? bob
let me tell you plextor has been no help... i did actually update the firmware. but here's the funny part, in some places on plextor's website is says it does support dvd-r dl and in other places it says it does not support it. i updated my firmware because thed update says it will burn dvd-r dl but then i emailed plextor about it and the response i got was that the drive does not do '-r dl' but you're right the updated firmware says it does, only probelm is plextor still says they don't. they need to make up their mind about this. i want to test it out myself but i can't seem to find dvd-r dl disks anywhere. i think i'll have to order them online or something.
i'm been pummeled for adding a feature in some devices and causing web and printed content to go out of sync. just asking, why must you have dl dvd-r? it seems odd since you can't find the media. i did see dl dvd+r out there and my friend says it played fine on his players. bob
downsizing...lol the reason i was looking for -r was that, it's my understanding that -r media is more compatible with stand alone dvd players and such. so i want to try what i can to make sure if i burn any videos they will play in most dvd players. and i always thought +r worked, but -r worked better. is that wrong?
the issue here is that it all depends on the list of players you have to play with. at first i found -r to play widely. now the list is reversed with more +r than -r. here's why i know. i have to keep a list of what type to send to who for demos. cheers, bob
just go to newegg.com and order the nec. always sells for $40-$47 including shipping. it burns all media except dvd-ram, and is rated close to 100% in customer reviews. it burns at speeds up to 16x.
