i have seagate 400 gb hard drive with alot of music on it. and i can't get it to show up on my computer. here's the deal. last thursday during a big storm, and our power went out. i usually keep the computer and the external hd on during the day while i'm at work. when the power went out, the computer and the external hd went off. last night, i plugged in the computer - works fine, no prob. i plugged in the external hd - nada. first, i can't really get it to turn on. when i push the on/off button, the blue light doesn't light. if i unplug it from the wall and from the usb, then plug it in the wall, the blue light blinks, and then stays lit if i plug it in the usb. but even with the blue light on that way, it still doesn't show up on my computer. i basically can't get my computer to recognize it, and i need some help. 300+ gigs of music (and who knows how many hours of d'loading it) hangs in the balance. thx!
go out and get another case ($20-$30).
i don't really know what that means. a new case for the external hd? and then what? take the hd out of the old case? basically, again: i can't get the external hd to show up when i click &quot;my computer&quot; even when the external hd appears to be turned on. so i can't even run data recovery software until i can get the computer to recognize that the external hd is hooked up, right?
either the usb port is broken, or the case, or the disk itself. assuming you tested the usb port by using it for some other device and by testing the case/disk combination on another pc, the conclusion should be that the port is ok and the case or the disk broken. next step: mount the drive in a new case and try again. with some luck it works. if it doesn't work in a new case on another pc either, the disk itself is broken. then it's time for a new hard disk also. a data recovery company might be able to get your data off it. kees
quick followup. some friends told me to open the case and plug hd inside the computer as a slave. i'm not really sure what that means, or how to do it. i open the case and unplug the hd. then i open the tower and plug in the hd? where? will it be obvious? do i have to plug in a power supply for the hd, too?
there's a very good chance there's a fitting cable. note the position/side of the red stripe on that flat cable! the power connection is somewhat easier. good luck, kees
really appreciate the help!
i bought western digital hard drive external 500g a month ago. it won't reconized by my pc. i checked the computer manager and device manager. it doesn't work. i have about 300g file on the hd. anyone know how to retrieve the data from the hrad drive. help! help! please..
posted in this forum. please take advantage of the information already provided here ... unfortunately it's abundant. vapcmd
gillware for affordable data recovery. &lt;a href=&quot;  &gt;data recovery&lt;/a&gt;
that's not a good sign. how fast will they work on your job?
try another computer please. or maybe something wrong with the usb. as to the lost files,you can try some data recovery tool such as wondershare, the one i once used. but first you should try all means to make your usb detected.
