on this black friday, i purchased dell xps desktop with huge discount. almost half price of right this moment's price. however recently while i am researching about dell computer, i found out that quality of dell computer parts are really low and they are using cheap parts. return policy period is not past and i kept every boxes and every parts of set. thus i am able to return the product. do you guys think that i should return the computer?
you may as well return it if you can. then, you can pay twice the price for something else and, the next day, wonder, again, if you made the right decision.
is it real that dell computer is using cheap and low quality parts ? based on what i have seen on the web, i know that among pre-built computer.
it has at least a year warranty so would your quality desktop per year be more or less?
dell parts are no better or worse than any other oem maker......i suppose not to include apple. if you go around the web you will find a 1000 post bitching about dell. why is that?......................dell sells a gazillion machines. i'm looking at a couple of year old dell desktop.......works fine.
i'm with you, dell is as good as any ready made boxes on the market. the only way to get a zoot kick butt whiz bang set up is to build it yourself, which many of us do or spend a bunch of loot and get an alienware unit...or the alternative go to mac.
this is entirely up to you if you feel you got a raw deal. imho, dell uses the same parts except for the mtrbd. that everyone else uses. sure, they buy in bulk, but so does everyone else. unless, your dell falls apart, then it's just as good as any other oem based pc out there. if you want, check 3rd party builders and check prices. also, remember you get the s/w bundle and ows which in many cases a huge hunk of the purchase, so beware of other vendors that offer a pc, yet you pay extra at least for the os or its a billable item. tada -----willy
i got the fact that dell's parts are same with any other oem computers, but how about compare with &quot;building my own computer.&quot; if prices are equal, for sure, quality of built computer will be better compare to manufactured computer, but how much different? because i also considering about building my own computer with money i receive from dell if i return the desktop. what you guys think?
i've lost count of posts where folk build their own only to discover installing windows is just as bad as it was 20 years ago. bob
go here.  price out the parts you want. don't forget the os. your call.
