as it gets ready to feed a new piece of paper, hp photosmart 8250 makes horrid grinding noise. it makes normal clicking noises, then very fast thack-thack-thack-thack, more normal clicking and then another set of grinding. there are no error messages and it prints just fine (when there's ink). it's been doing this for a while and we've been ignoring it. what could cause it? i posted this question in hp's forum in january and got no replies. we don't print enough to use the ink up before it expires. we ignore the warnings about using expired ink. that wouldn't cause this, would it? (those expiration messages are just so annoying.) now it won't print black & white because it says we are out of yellow ink. what does yellow ink have to do with printing black & white? we don't know whether to throw this piece of cr*p away or buy more ink and put up with grinding noise. this is windows 7 home 64-bit. any advice would be most welcome!
i see at  this was first available in 2005. any consumer grade printer is non-repairable for very simple reasons. the minimum shop fee is over 100 bucks and a new printer can be had for less. this does infuriate some folk so we know to not upset them by writing about this issue. (oops.) i see folk do sell used ones starting at 50 bucks so your choice to get another to take its place without issues. bob
i suppose it did serve us well. it's not the answer i was hoping for. yes, i'm one of the folks that gets infuriated by the planned obsolescence! something else to add to the landfill, not to mention the waste unused and probably expired ink cartridges (but no yellow)!
i hear you but are you willing to pay for the repairs that cost more than the printer? it's not planned ob... it's simple economics. if you can make a printer for 50 bucks retail that lasts for 2 years then why not? it beats having to pay about a grand for a printer that lasts a decade. 250 bucks is cheaper than 1,000? bob
i am using that same printer and it will make that noise when it's doing self maintenance. if it has a empty ink cartridge it will do the clunky weird noise almost every time you try to print. i let one of the cartidges go dry when i first got the printer and it did just what you are discribing. after i replaced the cartridge the noise went away except for when it does it's maintenance. have not let one go dry since and no noise. you may have a different problem, but as bob said, it's not worth wasting money to have it repaired when a new printer is cheaper.
thanks!
