hey guys, i have searched around all over the net for a solution. i am trying to network my small office. we have 3 computers all on our wifi network. we do not have any file sharing setup. i would rather shy away from doing a partition on one of the computers and sharing that space. i would rather just buy a external hard drive with large capacity to do a full backup of each computer through the shared drive. i have seen certain products like the buffalo or linksys router that you hook up the external hard drive too, but then the user reviews are usually pretty bad. wondering what is cost effective, that works, and has high speed capability for the backing up of the computers to the hard drive. ideally i would like the end result to be that on each computer the shared drive shows up just like the &quot;c:&quot; drive when you click on my computer. thank you very much for any help or advice.
today the complaints are all about speed and ease of use. today there is no product that does this well. to really hear the complaints, stick any network storage on wifi and even with the ear plugs in the screams are easily heard. bob
i have a nice little nas. it's connected to my router and contains a 450 gig sata drive. it's accessible from all my wired and wireless pcs and has worked flawlessly. and the nas has a little button that makes backups. opening explorer in each pc shows the nas as another hard drive.
i am trying to do something similar, but mine is for my house. i currently have 3 computers on line (network) and will be adding 2 more. i am using a belkin n+ wireless router. this allows me to plug via usb 2.0 into the router and the storage devise is linked into the other computers. i am currentlyn using windows vista 64bit as the main computer and have been having trouble finding an external nas hard drive. as recently as today though i believe i have found the cavalry # cand3002to 1tb external hard drive nas which is compatable. i called cavalry today and they said it is. buy.com has it on sale for 262.99 w/ free s/h. best price i found. i am a novice at all this also, but i do my research. i have networked my house on my own and i am very pleased with the belkin n+. i might add that my home is 4 stories with the router located on the third with no probs. let me know if you think its good for u or you see something better. i always like to be sure. p.s. i got the router for about 90.00. all together u should be able to hook up for around 350.00. good luck
