i thought it was the power supply at first after updating nvidia drivers, but i decided to try msi's kombustor benchmark software and ran the fuzzy and furry stress test. my pc did not shut off for the whole 10 minutes i ran it while my graphics card was under 100% load and 101% power draw. this threw me off completely and now i don't know what is going on. this didn't start happening until i reinstalled bf3 and punkbuster.(pb is for connecting to servers in bf3) i also would like to add that updating my nvidia drivers only made it shut off instantly when graphics were loaded instead of a few minutes after. i have had the same setup for about 4-5months and i have never had this problem until now. i5 3570k z77a-gd55 2x4 gskill 1600mhz cas 8 256g samsung 830 series msi gtx 670 power edition corsair hx750w 80 plus gold with 90% efficiency
it looks to be in warranty. have the maker fix this machine since you can crash it on demand. bob
i built the system myself. the power supply is still under warranty. i am just trying to make sure it isn't something else before i send it out for an rma. when it did fine during the benchmark it baffled me.
you seem to created this when you updated the drivers. go back to what worked?
i said it had already been shutting off when playing games for a few days. i figured updating the drivers might fix it, but only made it worse.
i guess i didn't clarify that actually my mistake. the problem didn't start until i moved into a new place and reinstalled bf3 and punk buster. i tried updating the drivers to see if it would fix the issue a few days later.
sadly you have to use what you've learned so far to make your best guess at what to replace. from my lessons in the field i find it's usually the video card if the machine is fine in respect to power, cooling and such. the hard part is the owner. most paid dearly for the video card and will second guess you every time. that's fine but you have to base your decisions on either a hard fail, swap a thing or what you've seen over the years. in this case i give the nod to trying another video card given the story so far. however!!!!! be sure to research that bf3 game forums. it would not be funny to find folk with lockup/reboot/freeze issues in that forum and then find a patch there. i did not do your research for you on that topic. bob
