i think i asked this question before and got something of a vague response. i have a dell computer from 2006 (an xps 410) and my video card is an nvidia geforce 9500 gt. now i've heard that with some resolutions it's not possible to see the computer on the tv screen, but 640x480 works best and full-screen games are just fine. my monitor is capable of going to 640x480. now my other question is that i'm planning on getting a new computer soon (also a dell, not sure which one yet). it's going to be widescreen, whereas the one i have now is a standard definition resolution monitor. will that impact what cable i need or will it work for both an older and a newer computer? i'm quite confused by this so any help is much appreciated! thanks!
no mention of the make, model of the tv as well as what connections are on the pc. i fear the answers must remain vague without details. for example you connect same to same video inputs and outputs. it's that simple. bob
well my tv now has the standard s-video ports (red, white, yellow) although i suppose in the future i could get an hdtv. the make of the tv is sansui, i'm not even familiar with the company. not sure what the model is, but does it matter? i thought all that mattered were the connections. i have no fancy connections on the computer, just the outlets and the monitor.
your standard red, yellow white av connections while not s-video (see  ) are rarely found on a pc. be very clear that composite and svideo is going to be unacceptable to most (so far nearly 100%!) so i strongly suggest you don't spend a dime on this. unless your pc has composite out why not try this another way? many want to watch content from the pc on the tv but given we are going to get 1/3 to 1/4 the pixels as the vga display again you find that folk after expending money and effort are often upset with the results. this changes if you have a hdtv. bob
does this tv have a monitor,or hdmi connector on it? if so,you'll dig it...otherwise it's a fuzzy waste. also,is your 9500gt built in the motherboard,or did you add it later? look on the back of it...it probably has an s-video plug.(hey guys,they have hdmi outputs on video cards yet?). analog will drive you insane,and s-video will make ya beat your dog.(maybe your 9500 has hdmi output,it resembles a usb slot) the fuzzy picture you get on your tv will dissapoint unless you run a lcd,plasma,or theater projector.they look as good as any pc monitor. the number of pins in the connector used dictates how good the tv picture will look: 1)monitor:12 pins (lose job & girlfriend) 2)hdmi vs 12 pin? (similar to 12 pin) 2)compsite:6 pins (never seen these) 3)s-video: 4 pins (begin to hate pcs) 4)analog: 2 pins (housecleaning is more fun) second: your video card can throw super hi-def in widescreen(16:9),or standard (4:3)...it's in the cards settings,and has nothing to do with whatever screen used. note:monitors support limited resolutions,but far more than 640x480....unless your tv/monitor is ancient.
so if i do get an hdtv and obtain a newer model (2010, 2011) computer, my best option is to go with composite connections? could you explain a bit further on composite and what i'd need to go ahead and do that?
maybe my best bet would've been to wait until i get a new computer and an hdtv before i ask again. my computer/tv are fairly old. the computer is a 2006 model and the tv i'm not even sure of. i basically bought it used at a yard sale. it might be a 2004/2005 model but i'm not sure.
but i explained this and i fear one more time will not improve it. try this. head to a store and have them explain the options again. bob
