i already have my os as well as other software programs installed on my western digital hdd. i doubt it's possible because all the software is already installed on my current hdd, but i would like to add another of the exact same western digital hard drive in conjunction with my current hard drive to create a raid 0 or stripped system. does anyone know if this is possible, and, if so, how i would go about it? my second question about a raid 0 system is if it is possible to backup all its files onto an external hdd?
does your raid system support such? most don't. item 2 is a software issue. i think acronis is quite good.
as bob say, make sure your system supports raid. here's what you can try. enable raid on your mb's ports that support it and install the proper drivers on your current hd and make sure they show as functioning properly. next, make a complete hd image using software capable of doing such on another hd...and preferably one that will restore from dos. put your two wd drives on the raid channel, boot and create the array as you desire. once the array is created, connect the hd with the full image on it to the system and restore that to the raid array. set the array as the first hd in the boot order and fire it up. if all goes well, it will start just fine but windows could be unhappy about the hardware changes and require re-activation. if all doesn't go well, you still have the full image available to restore as it worked before. as for your question about backing up to an external, that should work fine. a raid array is seen as a single drive and has a single drive letter. what you probably cannot do is back up a full image to an external and restore it to a non-raid drive.
the boot loader will be configured for ata/sata, and will not have the raid drivers at boottime (even if they're installed in the os). if raid-0 is enabled on the motherboard, it will erase the partition tables of the existing drives.
sweet! thanks! i'm kinda a computer noob though. how would i create a 'complete hd image using capable software' and what are some examples of the software i might use?
you can enable raid on the mb and xp will see the new hardware and allow you to install the driver. this differs from trying install xp on an existing array where you'd need to pre-install the drivers from a floppy. with the raid drivers already installed, you can create the array and move the os over to it. now, i have done this with raid 1 on an sata set but not raid 0. i presumed it would work either way but could be mistaken.
that company has been absorbed by the evil symantec corporation who has their own product called norton ghost. that would probably do the job. another popular one is acronis true image. i have no experience with it but it should work also. after rereading here, your best bet might be to do a clean installation on a pair of new drives of the same model. personally, i'd never consider raid 0 anymore than i'd jump from a plane without a second parachute but that's your choice. that you're looking for backup advice is a good thing. good luck.
just installing the os level drivers won't change the bootloader's drivers which are part of the master boot record. so when the image is applied to the raid volume, xp won't boot since the bootloader will be using ata/sata drivers, not the vendor specific raid driver. raid 1 is often transparent to the os since the controller makes 2 drives look like 1, but striping (and raid 5) always requires a low-level raid driver since 2+ drives are being merged. and, striping cannot be enable without having some drives to stripe. once enabled, the controller will clear the partition tables on the striped drives.
i'd never consider raid 0 for my own use unless going for a speed record with the intention of donating what's on it to the data black hole.
