i'm posting on behalf of my brother who has one of the more complex issues i've ever had to solve. he is using internet at his home by tethering through his cell phone and his wife's cell phone because they have unlimited data. he can connect to his phone's hotspot with his vista desktop which has a usb wireless adapter attached. his hopes were that this wireless connection could be shared with other computers in the house that didn't have wireless capability by connecting them to a router that the wireless desktop is also connected to. the problem: whenever the ethernet cord is plugged into the computer it stops using the wireless network and tries to connect through the internet from the wired network, which is not available. bridging the two networks does not work for unknown reasons, and neither does turning on &quot;internet connection sharing&quot; on the wireless network two possible solutions and why they don't work(so they don't get re-suggested) are: -get a wireless network extender in place of a router. this doesn't work because neither he nor his wife are always home all the time, changing the settings in the extender so it extends a different hotspot is too time consuming to be able to do it several times a day -get a usb rocket stick from the mobile service provider. this isn't possible because it's an even more expensive subscription and because the data offered on the rocket stick is limited to 8gb but the data on their phone plans is unlimited(they use roughly 30gb of data a month) what i'm looking for is any software solutions that anyone knows of that could take a wireless internet connection and share it over the ethernet connection hassle-free. i have no idea why vista chooses the wired network over the wireless one even though the wireless is the only one with internet access. any insight would be appreciated. thanks
i have used virtualrouter (see google) but that's for windows 7 and 8. bob
it seems to me that that's the opposite of what i'm looking to do. virtual router supposedly takes a wired internet connection and shares it wirelessly, but i'd like to take a wireless internet connection and share it over a wired local network. it might very well have that functionality, but it's not advertised, and yes, it unfortunately requires windows 7 or 8
can take a tethered connection and share it to the wifi or ethernet to something else. i can't teach you all it can do but it can do that. armed with this title you can research other titles that do similar. but i find some folk want more. as this is a somewhat complicated setup you either dig in and learn networking or have it done for you. i can offer titles that i've used but you must be comfortable with the tech since you get to own it. to be hassle free is a tall order since you are dealing with vista and can't use the free virtual router. bob
i've used ics to share a wireless internet connection with the wired ethernet port, so i can attest that it will work when configured properly. if vista is disabling the wireless connection with ics enabled, then something in the settings is amiss. most will say it's tricky to setup and unreliable. i can only suggest attempting ics again if you don't want to purchase additional hardware.
