i have a win98se laptop using a belkin wireless g pc card. i have noticed that in the win98 control panel, network connections, the entry for the belkin adaptor (not the tcp/ip entry), under advanced there seems to be alot of options (mode, power, etc.) that are not described in the documentation or appear to be accessible via the belkin utility. i assume these are windows os properties. what do these functions do, how are they accessible, if accessible would they do anything and is there any documentation? thanks, harvey
while most of this can be found on google searches, for the money you paid for the card, they can't supply a manual to document 802.11g, all the possible tweaks, why you may want to change a setting and maybe even a primer on networking in general. so to cut costs to the bone, i find the product in some small box with possibly a quick start guide and warranty card is the cheapest. some buyers of networking components need a lot more information and as such can go to cisco training, buy all the books and more. it's all a big question about how much is the customer willing to spend for such and why penalise those who just want to connect up their laptop. i don't have this answer, but maybe the answer is as we see it today. you want more, you can buy it. bob
the pdf may not be for your card, but i see they show a short explanation for each field in the control panel. have you looked at their support site? if not, why not? i ask just because i want to understand why people don't go there. bob
thanks for the links, but i think you misunderstood my question. i have the belkin card with its documentation and am quite familar with accessing their website for firmware/software, etc.. the parameters i'm trying to find are in the network connections portion of the win98se control panel. there, under the belkin adaptor (not the belkin tcp/ip settings) properties/advanced tab, are many more parameters which can be (apparently???) modified. it is these parameters that i'm trying to get more information about. thanks, harvey
but didn't detail how you were trying. let's see if you are: 1. using the phone. with the sheer volume of emails, few companies respond. i find a phone call and maybe a small amount of money gets my answers. some will not pay for answers and those people have pretty much stated the answer is not worth it to them. but belkin is smarting from a recent debacle and now is a good time to call in. 2. using the web site. i don't know which model you have and the particular field you want to know more about. i did suggest that model numbers would be helpful if you want me to comment on a field in partiticular. 3. using the web in general. you didn't reveal what you tried on  there is an abundance of papers on wifi in general and you as the person with the questions would have a lot to digest as you learn about networking 802.11x and so on. in closing, the many more parameters are mostly for belkin support to tweak a customers setup when something is amiss. you haven't written that its not working, but seem to be in the search for some general knowledge or worse, the engineering document on your card. i'm not writing this is a bad thing, but it's a lament that such is not supplied since only a few of us would ever look inside. before you get upset, remember that to contain costs, they don't just publish such things. and putting it all out on the web site might be nice, but then you run into someone that wants a free education and again that may upset you. sorry about that. there's no reason to get upset with me. they are a business and i'm just a friendly person who happens to have been on a design team of a two-way data transport system. so i can share that my desk couldn't hold all my books on the subject matter. in closing, if you can condense your question to something specific other than what each parameter does, i might be able to find a concise answer. any bigger question gets to the point you need a collection of books on data over rf and more. cheers, bob ps. and yes, i have a few 802.11x networks. home and the office/lab. can compare notes if need be.
