hey guys, i'm trying to get a clear answer here so i hope you can help me. i'm about to change from a past decade old 17&quot; crt to an lcd for the first time. going to get a 19' standard this time around and when more applications support widescreen then i'll upgrade. for the moment though i know that the size of the lcd will give a 1280x1024 reso. i've been told that lcd worked best on their native resolution and even though that is obvious i would like to know how it responds to lower settings. i'm an old school gamer. i play games like master of orion 2 and i still love my starcraft and diablo to name a few. how would these look on an lcd? i would be really disapointed in getting a screen that couldn't show some decently my all time fav games. if brand helps in this query. i'm currently looking at the samsung 932bf and the lg l1900r - both at 2ms and at 2000:1 and 3000:1 respectively of contrast ratio. thx
it works from 320x200 all the way up to it's native resolution. hope this answers that question. bob
that's great but how is the quality. working is fine, but if the quality is unbearable that doesn't solve my issue. i expect a shot in quality but to a certain limit only.
19&quot; lcds although not samsung but equal in the specs. two are wide screen, the other is standard. you'll love yours. one thing you didn't mention is your video card. will it support the native resolution of the proposed lcd? the reason i ask is i recently purchased a 22&quot; and was excited to hook it up. although my high end nvidia 256 meg video card supported a gazillion resolutions, the specific native of the 22&quot; was not listed. in tears i returned it.
quality is a subjective item. here it looks exactly as i expect a 320x200 or such display to look like. bob
the card is an nvidia 8600gts.
this may vary by os. if i r/c the desktop... select properties/settings i find a slider. it's my res adjuster. as i move the slider left/right i think it's trying to tell me what res my vid card can handle. perhaps worth a look to see if the #'s match.
i'm well familiar with resolutions. but the specific one for that monitor was not listed. i could set it a little below and the picture, specifically text was not good. above the native and i got the screen message, &quot;out of range!&quot;.
well i finally took the plunged and aquired last night the samsung i had mentioned. wow!!! talk about an improvement. i'm still tweaking the settings but already i am impressed. after much research my fears about how older games would look like had abated a bit. i loaded up master of orion 2 and found out that i could play with native resolution by &quot;changing&quot; it to what was required for me to play (640x480 for this game). i'm not sure if that is standard but my video card allowed me this. it looks a tad bit soft but its nothing major. came with a dvi corde so i was all set. yay!!!
