alright so i tried installing a new sound card on my custom built machine. when i went to turn it on and install the new drivers, when it wouldn't boot. nothing! i hit the power and the led lights come on fans kick in but no video signal is sent and the monitor just goes into stand-by. what could be my problem here? i am thinking mobo, but hoping maybe just the ram. how to i check before buying all new??
spooky or what? i turned my machine on this morning and have exactly the same problems. power supply fan and cpu fan both start,again no beeps from the memory, monitor led doesn't change from amber to green. tried pressing reset button but nothing happens, pressed power button again nothing, only way to turn off is to disconnect from mains power supply. wondered if there may have ben a power surge overnight? anybody got any ideas? otherwise it's going to be case of swapping each componant into another machine one at a time to find the fault. regards mike
hi mediafreakgodicon, since reading your post and posting my first reply, i have spoken to my mate who suggested a way to solve my problem and it has worked, so i thought you may want to try it. look on your mobo for the jumper to clear your cmos and short it out. if there isn't a jumper to short remove the battery for a short time whilst disconnected from the mains. this will restore cmos to default settings. it has worked for me so give it a try! regards mike
hey mike, i tried that out today but it didn't work as well for me as it did you, in fact it didn't work at all. i pulled out the lithium battery to clear the cmos. when i put it back in and restarted my pc i was still in the same boat as where i started. any other ideas? i'm about ready to just give it up.
sound card ?
i always unplug my pc before i ever open the case.
i had more or less the same problem yesterday. computer froze, i rebooted and...nothing. the power comes on, the hard drive light is on (constantly) the cd rom light comes on briefly and then that's it. i tried clearing the cmos but no joy i don't care about tha data...it's my kids pc, but i don't want to throw it away. bit of a bugger really richard
i just and i mean just went thru same thing! turned out mother board was fried
is there anyway to test that the motherboard is indeed fried, without going out and buying all new components?
uhuh. watching too many movies again. i mean the 4 parts to get a beep. notice a case is not in the list. the list: 1. motherboard. 2. cpu (with heatsink/fan.) 3. power supply. (yup, you need the ac cord.) 4. the speaker (connected to the motherboard...) when i find a dead dead unit i strip it down to these 4 pieces. if it powers up and beeps i start adding parts. if it doesn't power up i'm looking at 4 possibly bad parts. bob
i bought a new motherboard and cpu and my comp still wont start up. power is getting to it but there is no sound, beep or screen.
