i have winxp pro with a 2.4g p4, 512 ram, and trying the following on the nec dvd-rw 1100. i'm trying to get the drive to play a music cd so i can plug my headphones into the jack on the front panel of the drive. is there a utility that will cause this to work? i've tried letting windows media player run the cd and can hear through speakers, etc. but if i plug headphones into the front jack i hear nothing through the headphones. i can unplug the speakers and plug the headphones into the sound card and hear fine. i'm trying to troubleshoot a &quot;static-like&quot; pop or click that occurs only when a wav sound file, streaming media, mp3 or a cd is played through the system sound card. there is only the insert/eject button, the volume control and the headphone jack on the drive itself. perhaps i should be using a particular type of headphones? i'm using my koss pro/4x stereo headphones. thanks, ron
read  and set wmp to play back in analog mode. bob
hi robert and happy new year! that's quite a site. fortunately i can't find anything that applies - this is a good thing, (my interpretation). wmp is up to 9.00.00.2980. directx was updated in the past two weeks. i only have one mp3, it was from clint black's site and offered free. other than that i don't download music files. no worries about pirated software, just not worth it. xp pro is patched and drivers are updated as far as i'm aware of. virus, mal & spyware regularly scanned for. i switched from digital to analog but still no joy on the headphones playback from the front jack. this audio anomaly is mostly heard during system wav files (windows start, etc.) or feed from internet stream or web sites playing midi or wav files. i very seldom play audio cd's or video dvd's so i'm only trying to use the drive to exclude the sound card source. i started with dell a couple days ago and they've had me disconnecting this and that and everything in between. they seem to be looking for some sound issuing from a device but i can't seem to get them to understand that it is only heard through the speakers when played through the sound card. i've moved the system, isolated the sub-woofer on a separate electric outlet, tested with two other speaker systems and as i mentioned plugged my headphones into the speaker output from the sound card and get the same results every time. not sure where to turn at this point. it's not keeping me from using the computer and isn't causing any problems elsewhere. just something annoying. i would like to simply un-install the sound card totally and replace it with a new one but right now i think this is dell's call. i'm patient. thanks bob, ron
if i re-read both your posts, then i realise that you may be expecting the cd-audio output jack on a cdrom drive to output sound from the computer's sound card. &quot;ain't gonna happen.&quot; bob
you do have the audio control turned up on the drive? - fj
no, that's exactly what i want to bypass, bob. i'm trying to hear what's being played by using just the headphone jack on the drive - independent of the sound card. i figured that was the only point of audio output i could use to isolate the play-back from the sound card. ron
yup - i can rotate it back and forth but still no sound through the headphones. ron
1. what cd is this? while i did write &quot;audio-cd&quot; and to make sure the settings are all set to analog playback, another person had made a cd with mp3 files on it and was unaware it was not &quot;cd-audio&quot; or &quot;audio-cd.&quot; just want to be crystal clear on this. use some store bought cd to clear up 1/2 of this question. 2. is it in analog playback? to use analog playback instead of digital: 1. in windows media player on the tools menu, click options. 2. on the devices tab, click properties for the cd-rom or dvd-rom drive that is being used for playback. 3. under playback, click analog. bob
but thought i would check. i do not believe you can hear anything through the cd rom headphone jack while an application has control of the drive. you must turn off mp or other player and use the play button on the cd rom. you can go so far as disconnecting the ide cable and trying the drive as a stand alone cd player. good luck.
actually i am trying to use a commercial cd, fleetwood mac/rumours to be exact. i did go in and specifically set the drive to analog. it was in digital so i had to change it. is is possible there isn't sufficient output power or whatever from the cd-rom itself to drive the koss headphones? it did work when i listened from the sound card output (but then, that wasn't what i wanted). ron
interesting, however there isn't a play button on the drive. only the insert/eject, volume and the jack. i wondered about the program control and if it would have an effect, that's why i was wondering if there was a utility that would cause the player to be used on it's own specifically for using the output jack. thanks, ron
it sure seems to me that it's still in digital mode or the front panel is just too weak. here's how i test such. i unplug the small cd analog cable. here's a picture -&gt;  bob
when the jack is inserted into the &quot;socket&quot; on the front of the cd-rom, possibly the jack on your headset is not the corect one???
to feed the analog music signal to the output on the front of the drive. they can fail. i had a friend with a dell that had that exact problem [while under warranty lol].
bob, had to take an end run. wouldn't let me post further in that last one. i'll give the cable disconnect a try and make a trip to radio shack tomorrow and see if i can find an inexpensive set of headphones suitable for the pc. maybe the koss headphones need a little more output power. i'll let you know. ron
don't blame the earphone. if the light on the drive is blinking then you have either a defective volume control or a defective output jack.
hmmm, ok, then i'll pose that one with dell also. thanks, art. ron
ray, i assume that you refer to the digital to analog? if so, then i did try that. it would then go along with what art posted and i responded that i will now bring that up with dell also - - in addition to the sound anomaly. thanks, ron
