i have usb to ps/2 converter, recognized by vista, but unable to install it without drivers. this converter supported by windows 98/se/me/2000/xp. where can i get such drivers for vista?
most usb mice at the moment come with a small converter to use them with a ps/2 port. those don't need a driver. i just plug them in. the other way around, maybe? ps/2 keyboard or mouse in a usb port? what exactly is the make and model of your device? did you already check the makers site? kees
ps/2 mouse & keyboard input, one usb output. windows 98/se/me/2000/xp has a built in support in this kind of devices. so it came with no drivers. but vista just recognize it. so i need drivers to install it.
one of those driver issues you run into when switching from xp to vista. even reputable companies like hp don't support older printers under vista, so people have to replace a perfectly functioning one by a new one. i'd say the outlook for generic devices like this is not too well. maybe somebody knows. otherwise, back to the shop to ask about it. kees
sometimes members will go driver hunting. -&gt; but try this. turn off uac and try again. also you shall use an admin account. i've been solving nutty issues this way. i will not explain microsoft's ways or why it matters. bob
if someone has ps/2 to usb converter on xp or vista. please let me know how to make it work.
a &quot;company&quot; made the product. if there is no such company support then it's a dead end. i don't read where you tried it my way. why not try it? bob
it goes something like: &quot;vpro&quot; or &quot;ovpro&quot; or &quot;covpro&quot;, some unclear logo... it doesn't really matter. it recognized automatically by all windows except vista. i think that xp drivers would be good enough.
did you turn off uac and as the administrator as i noted? also your post is too light on machine details. i can't count how many times i cure these issues with a flip of the legacy usb in the bios or by using the rear ports. but your posts are void of details so i can't look to see if those apply. bob
usb legacy devices turned on, i can use the keyboard via adapter to choose safe mode or normal mode. so the adapter working. i turned off uac, restarted the computer. windows recogniozed the adapter but couldn't install it from internet or from the computer. in the device manager it's named: &quot;ps2 to usb converter&quot; with yellow exclamation mark. in the properties under general tab: &quot;a driver (service) for this device has been disabled. an alternate driver may be providing this functionality. (code 32) click 'check for solutions' to send data about this device to microsoft and to see if there is a solution available.&quot; driver tab: driver provider: &quot;unknown&quot; driver date: &quot;not available&quot; driver version: &quot;not available&quot; digital signer: &quot;not digital signed&quot; when i press on &quot;check for solutions...&quot;, i get message to download: &quot;update for windows vista, 32-bit versions (kb940199)&quot;. i downloaded it, and nothing happened.
finding it, might be a big problem. apparently, microsoft left it out of vista deliberately, and the (rather unknown) manufacturer might not have enough reason or resources to write one. the best thing to do might be to contact microsoft. they are doing their utmost best to make vista as compatible with older os'es as possible (there are still much too much people who don't want vista for reasons like this) and they might be able to help you. best of luck and let us know. kees
i have to try it both ways. but as we found out with the apple laserwriters, microsoft left out some drivers that were native, included with xp but are not in vista. try a brand name product with support for vista. bob
again, thanks for trying that. sorry it didn't work but thank you 3 times for getting that done. i can't count how many times we go 20 posts and wind up with (finally) trying something from post 2. bob
the adapter was installed immediately. so now everything works fine. sp1 rc even solved another problem with drivers of my cell phone, sony ericsson z610i. i happy that microsoft released sp1 rc now. thanks to everyone how tried to help!
you just added a nugget to the collective knowledge that microsoft slipped in some drivers on that sp1. bob
i am having hcl make leaptop model p3831.i like to connect external key board by use of usb to ps/2 converter.but it was not connecting.it asking driver can u help where should i get the driver software
anyway you might want to migrate to windows 7 if you can because vista does have many problems.
