greetings from scandinavia. i just bought an i7 950 with the extreme6 mb, i choose to pick my tri-channel ram-blocks among the few ddr3 on the market operating at 1.5volts. read that the memory-controller in the i7 chip can get damaged by higher voltages! ram-specs: kingston valueram 3 x 2 gb - product code: kvr1066d3n7k3/6g 1066 mhz, pc3-8500 - 7-7-7-20 on-die termination (odt) / intel extreme memory profiles (xmp) as-rock's mb-support page does not have these modules on the compatibility list!! now im afraid these kingston ram will cause a problem, this is my first rig-build! help me figure out whether i should send the ram back
have you tried the ram ? vapcmd
no, i havent tried it yet, it has put my building on hold
if so, read:  i see the bios goes to well over 2.0 volts so where did you read that 1.5v would be damaging to the system? bob
well, i read it in some articles, here are the ones i have the adress on:   -the source to my consearns is actually from the supportpage on the x58 extreme6, the modules arent in the supported list!! how important is it to follow these guidances?? i have wrote to asrock, and am in the process of contacting kingston. just thought, maybe someone knew how 'hard' one should follow that ddr-compatibility list. (thanks for answering guys) dc
the articles said something about that core i7's integrated memory-controller could get damaged beyond repair by memory-modules operating above 1.5v. almost all of the ddr3 triple-channel operate at 1.65v, but then i found these. havent had the time to try to figure out, whether there is a problem, or whether those sites(articles)are just amd-freaks bashing superior enemy architecture
just re-read those articles, and it seems i got it wrong: its apparently only a problem when going beyond 1.5-1.65v -so im going to return those kingston, cause they are too slow! but: does anyone know how much one should follow that ddr3-compatibility list for supported modules???
the chipset voltage and the memory voltage are on different supplies. i supplied the link to the tom's hardware so you could see that in the screen shot. i don't see the problem. but that doesn't mean people won't fret over this. bob
