i've got a maxtor model# 2b020h1 20gb ide hard drive that had a main board smoke show, complete with a melted chip. i assume that the storage area is intact, and want to salvage data from the drive (mostly photos), but data recovery services charge more than i can justify for what i'll get back. the drive is still under factory warranty, but that is just simple drive replacement, without data recovery. i've checked the web, and as the drives are basically obsolete, they are cheap and plentiful, which suggests the following question: what is involved in swapping the electrical components, while leaving the mechanical storage guts in place? can i lift out the board and motor as a single assembly and swap, or does such a swap involve smd's (which i'm nor equipped to handle) or some other other specialized process? i'd also welcome any suggestions about an established repair service who could do that swap for a reasonable flat rate. thanks! -ks
i may not be able to help much but it's an interesting subject. another alternative would be to not replace the electric things but the disk. find an identical maxtor hd,remove your disk and put it into the new one. i don't know how difficult that would be, but perhaps you could do it yourself. i did something like that once but it was between two removable disk units. it was something similar to iomega zip-drives. but a hard disk might be a little more complicated. -
you do not want to open the case of a hard drive, they are put together in sealed rooms with no dust, opening one up will more than likely destroy any ability to recover the data from it. a small bit of dust you can't even see is like a boulder under the heads of a hard drive. anyone replacing the pcb of a hard drive is taking a chance of losing all their data, which a recovery service may be able to get back.
my 2-cents... you have a very good chance of having the hd work if you replace the pcb itself. you don't ever need to remove the hd cover, just the card. while data can be recovered i consider more than a 50/50 chance of doing ok. whatever made the pcb smoke in the 1st place can resurface, but usually these are the stepper or controller ics burning up provided there is no physical internal disk damage will work with a pcb replacement. -----willy
this is true, we replaced a burnt out board with that of another identical drive and it worked a treat. to be fair we did copy the data straight off and transfered it to another drive but it worked out much cheaper than data recovery. good luck.
