hello everyone ... i'm in egypt and i'm about to buy an ipod with a very good price the problem is that i'll go to canada after a month and i think i will live the rest of my life there ... so i want to ask about the power doch which come with the new ipod , does it work with 220v and 110v ?? or when i buy the ipod from egypt (which will support 220v for sure) it will not support the 110v (in canada ) so is there anybody can help me with this ??? thanx anyway ,,
the apple usb power adapter is capable of using 110/120v and 220/240v the 30gb ipod does not come with a dock. it does come with a dock adapter which is used to ensure the correct fit into the apple ipod universal dock, which is purchased separately. the universal dock is supplied with power to charge your ipod via the apple usb power adapter. more details on the apple site p
ok i know that but it must be a way of charging without the usb dock ,me question is about this way which come with the new ipod 30 (the reguler way) .. is it double voltage ( works with 110 and 220) or it depends on the place where you buy the ipod .. (in egypt 220 and in canada 110) and so on ..
there is not a usb dock that is included with the new ipod 30gb. it comes with a usb cable that you plug into your computer to charge the ipod. available as an added extra, is a power adapter (110/220) that has a usb port on it. you plug the ipod into the adapter using the usb cord that came with the ipod. there is also available for an extra cost, a dock, which connects to the power adapter via the usb cable that came with the ipod. the ipod sits in the dock and it charged through the connector in the bottom of the ipod. the only way to charge the ipod, no matter where you purchased it, is either via the usb port on your computer or with a power adapter. this is the power adapter power adapter and this is the dock this straight from the apple store. quote what's in the box ipod earphones usb 2.0 cable dock adapter case quick start guide end quote. as you can see, the ipod does not come with a dock p
well .. ok .. just one other question .. how long does it take to fully charge the ipod with this usb way ?
but it is the only way to charge one p
well, first of all, good luck with your trip. if you want to sell it, i am looking forward to buy a used one. so, i am just waiting for a reply. thanks.
