got two questions for the experts here. first, when i try to share files/folders, they always are marked as read-only, even after i have granted others to modify files in the shared folders through the security tab. if i uncheck the read-only box, and apply the change, it still reverts back to being read only. this is on my desktop running winxp media center edition (99% sure this is a variant of xp pro). for the time, i have gotten around this by turning off simple file sharing and allowing full access to everybody on every shared folder. i don't really like that idea, but for now that's what i have to do. my second question is this. i can see and access my desktop files from my laptop (sometimes not until after a few minutes of being on the network), but i can not see the laptop from the desktop, nor can i see the desktop itself on the workgroup computers. the laptop has winxp home, and winxp media center (pro?) on the desktop. i have disabled all known software firewalls, incl. win icf with no luck whatsoever. any ideas? thanks!
you didn't write if zonealarm is installed. there is no disable for that software in spite of the disable setting. as to your file permission issues, that's just something you need to read about as to ownership and permissions. since all that is on the web for the reading, i will not duplicate the content here. some will not research such on the web and need to go buy a book on administrating windows. recap: 1. some software firewalls don't disable even if there is a checkbox to do so. 2. ownership and permissions. that's what you need to research. bob
i do not have zonealarm installed on either machine. i have googled many different word combos and tried all the suggestions i found to no avail. i'm stuck. if you had some links, it would be helpful if you could provide them. thanks.
if you can be precise about accounts, ntfs is being used and more, then we can proceed. i forgot to mention the need for ntfs since without, this will not work. let's start with &quot;groups&quot; and &quot;owners&quot;. you could have a shared directory that is full access to some &quot;group&quot;. or you could set the group access to read-only and some other group would have full access. put people in each group depending on the effect you want. as you can tell, such is all in the words and understanding rights, groups, owners, ownership and some tools. one tool is cacls or xcacls or similar. you pick which is your cup of tea. have you been to a book store and looked at books on administration? bob
