i have a dell dimension 1100 that the case was pretty damaged but it still worked fine... for months in fact. i found another case and started the process of moving everything over. the poswer supply the drives the power switches and now i can't get it to work the power indicator on the back and on the board are on. the hd indicator and the activity indicator on the power switch are all on, and the problem comes on start up. when i hit power with everything connected properly, the dvd roms and the hd will not power up. if i remove the ide cable and turn it on, the drives all work, you can hear the hd start up and the drives will open and shut. i've changed the cables and went throgh this process a bunch of times. no difference. ide plugged in no power to drives. ide unplugged and drives get power... the monitor hasn't came on yet either... any advice on this, i'm hoping that i haven't killed this thing. there has been no indications that anything has fried. in great need of starting this back up... thank you
won't start or are you saying when you connect the hdd to the ide cable it won't start ? for what it's worth i have seen situations where connecting a hdd caused the system to appear dead and wouldn't start. once the the drive was disconnected, the system it would start immediately. or does the problem start when you comnnect the power to (one of) the drives ? if the ide controller is damaged or shorting out somewhere...you could add a secondary controller for the ide drives.
yeah, not dead, but it will all power up without it plugged in, and with it plugged in, all seems to be on... lights fans, et cetera, just no power to the drives...
yeah, not dead, but it will all power up without it plugged in, and with it plugged in, all seems to be on... lights fans, et cetera, just no power to the drives...
just the ide cable ? the ide cable with any drive, the hard drive connected? what if you just connect the power to 'it...but not the ide cable. sometimes connecting just 'power' (without the ide data cable) to a hard drive can kill a system....can you check that scenario too ? you said: ide...yeah, not dead, but it will all power up without it plugged in, and with it plugged in, all seems to be on... lights fans, et cetera, just no power to the drives... posted by: destructicon (see profile) - 05/07/2006 3:28 pm
