i'm using a compaq-presario sr5130nx desktop computer with vista home premium 32 bit. it came with a tsstcorp cd/dvdw ts-h653l scsi cdrom device (cd-rom drive). the only problem i have is when i insert a cd with photos on it, and open the folder, the thumbnails appear for a brief instant then turn into the generic icon. that is the only problem, everything else runs normally. i have installed every update, all checks of the drive with pc doctor, trouble shooter show &quot;this device is working properly&quot;. thinking perhaps the cd/dvd rom was defective i installed another device (memorex double layer 16x cd internal cd burner) vista recognized it and installed it using the same drive as the tsst corp cd rom. i have the same results, a brief appearance of the thumbnails then the generic icon. when i transfer the folder to my c:drive and open the folder the thumbnails appear normally. i have made sure that the option for &quot;show icons only&quot; is unchecked. i have uninstalled and reenstalled the drive to no avail. i've used system restore but that goes back only 2 days. one other thing, when i use my photo suite program and open photos from the cd thumbnails show up as they should. now i have both cd/dvd devices installed and recognized by vista and the problem exists with both of them and both are using the same drive provided by microsoft dated 6/21/2006, version 6.0.6001.18000. once again, the problem does not exist in the c:drive.tia
but that's normal. to figure it out how this works, research thumbs.db and don't put that file on the cd. let's be clear there is no hardware issue here. you have a complaint about windows and what it is doing. bob
where do i find this thumbs.db? i assumed it was a windows problem. but how do i correct that? i know the cd roms are fine because i installed them in another computer and they worked fine. it's only in my computer and thats why i thoughts it is a corrupted drive. the computer worked fine for over a year.. bob
type thumbs.db on google.com remember it does not matter it worked before. microsoft and who else updates software on your pc and without notice you may find stuff stop working. i don't duplicate web content about thumbs.db but point out that's where the thumbnails are cached. there is a setting in explorer to turn that off and maybe, just maybe it will help. to find that setting (remember you are in a hardware forum) i'd google this -&gt; windows explorer thumbnail cache setting there's another fun issue that happens in windows where the temporary internet files cache gets so many entries. what some don't know is the interaction of ie and explorer. but let's skip to that cure. clear the tif. bob
&quot;thinking perhaps the cd/dvd rom was defective i installed another device&quot; there is a possible connection with this and that. let's think over how the thumbs.db, icon caching in explorer works and files on a cdr or cdrw could work. let's say our old cdrw drive supported and we use drag and drop capability. the thumbs.db file could be updated and the view of the cdr/w would behave just like on the hard disk. change the cdrw drive and we could break the drag and drop or &quot;cdr/w media behaves like a drive&quot; and the thumbs.db can't be written on the fly and you see your issue again. it's a shame that no one writes a good article about how this all works but nothing in your post would lead me to suspect bad drives. bob
thanks bob i'm starting to learn somthing. microsoft, bless their evil hearts are trying to send me solutions, but every cure they send me are for the c:drive. i'm going to check out what you've sent me and i'll get back and keep you posted. bob
explorer thumbnail cache setting -&gt;
