hey all, everytime i turn on my second computer on my home network, my host automatically dials into the internet. i have had the same problem in the past but can't figure out how to correct it. thanks for the help. my host is windows xp and the second computer that is pulling my host online is running windows 98 se. thanks for the help. laraine
is a typical discussion.  has articles about ics. in a nutshell, you configured it to dial on demand. bob
from microsoft... i would imagine the 2nd to last paragraph is where your issue is. open network connections. (click start, click control panel, and then doubleclick network connections.) click the dialup, local area network, pppoe, or vpn connection you want to share, and then, under network tasks, click change settings of this connection. on the advanced tab, select the allow other network users to connect through this computer's internet connection check box. if you want this connection to dial automatically when another computer on your home or small office network attempts to access external resources, select the establish a dialup connection whenever a computer on my network attempts to access the internet check box. if you want other network users to enable or disable the shared internet connection, select the allow other network users to control or disable the shared internet connection check box.
i really appreciate the help. i am going to try the steps that you have suggested when i get home this evening. i am using a dial up to connect to the internet, but ethernet to network my computers. i am assuming that when i double click the network connections that i am going to be adjusting my settings for dial up since i am using a modem for my internet. is this a correct assumption? thanks again for the help, laraine liverman
i did everything that i was given and i am still going online as soon as my second computer goes into windows.. i am in the middle of recoverying the second computer. i am going from scratch. i can use all of the help i can get, laraine liverman
