hey i have had my compaq presario 5000 series since about 1998.. i know.. its old but hey.. itas works fine unless im doing alot of stuff at once on the comp.. it has a amd duron processor at 900mhz.. it came with a ati 3d rage2+dvd video card it has 20mb memory on it and it recently konked out.... i think..well anyway.. i was screwin aroundwith it one day and i installed xp on it. i decided to take out the ati card and try to install windows xp then(the computer came with windows me)anyway. the install decided to work except now the comp runs fine except when i play videos.. extremely slow.. the computer has 8mb for the video card built in. so i think its the memory. wat could happen to the comp if i tried to plug in my old video card again?.. would it crash windows or something?
1. too little ram. a machine from 1998 might have 64mb ram which means that you need to increase that to 256 or 512 m. 2. the person installing xp forgot that microsoft does not install the best drivers. update drivers from the hardware makers, not microsoft. 3. the usual virus, worm or more invades windows xp on a first install and connect to the internet. antivirus and firewalls must be installed before connecting to the internet. best of luck in recovery. bob
ok i plugged in my video card cand let the computer boot, it botted up fine.. if anything.. it was faster then before.. about 1 minute later the computer restarts itself.. and it does this everytime it starts up again.. the computer has 128mb syncdram.. any other suggestions
the time is the key here. to me that indicates that some part is getting too hot. double check heatsinks are in place, not covered in dust and the fans are spinning like they were when new. also, try a bigger power supply if you can. -&gt; it's odd you didn't address the items i noted in my first reply. if you do that again i'll consider that you are not reading my replies. bob
ok.. so im i did not tell you about ur previous suggestions.. i have done multiple.. anti virus.. adware, spyware etc.. u name it.. i did it.. there are no more slots to add more ram... and .. and about ur new reply.. the fans and all the cool things are running fine..the computer was resotred and cleaned about 1 year ago.. and ahsnt been used since about 3 weeks ago.. because the computer stop working(video card) a while ago.so there is minal dust and anythign that can affect the fans. i felt the video cards chip and it does not seem..extremely hot .. it gets warms quickly and then the computer shuts down...ok and as for the person intalling xp put the wrong drivers...i did not install xp but a run of themill ciomputer repair shop did and the computer worked for about 2 days until it finally stop working... i have looked on ati's website for the drivers for the ati 3d rage2+dvd and there are not any for xp.. any suggestions? chris
it's the most common failure point for this machine. the duron is now fairly cheap compared to scrapping the machine. also, you did not tell if you are relying on microsoft for motherboard drivers. i can assure you that what's on the xp cd or at microsoft is not proper. try a scan with ewido and housecall. leave nothing they find on the machine. best of luck, bob
ok so new cpu eh.. woww i aint into computers that much.. well i am but not very technically inclined to that degree.. anyway.. motherboard driver.. yes i am using xp's its kinda difficult to find drivers for xp.. but for the hardware its running on..and i am contemplating the thought that it may be heat issue.. i plugged the card in after the scans you told me to do the house calls and ewido.. and the chip gets realllly warm on the vid card. i put a ice cube in a plastic bag and placed it on the chip while i start up the pc and the computer runs a little longer b4 it decides to shutdown ...not very long but about 1 minute longer at most
