when my son's computer is turned on from a cold boot, i get the message in the subject line above. i can press f1 and it will boot just fine, the computer works fine, with no problems. each time it is cold booted, however, we get the above message. why?
you may want to check in the bios settings to see if the smart for hdd's is enabled. if it is, it has correctly reported that some areas of the disc are corrupted. if scandisc, or another comperable program are available, you need to run a thorough scan of the surface area. be prepared as this may take many hours. if it does find bad sectors, it will wall tham off so that no data can be written to them .in any case, start backing up data imeediately, and shop for a new hdd. nowadays disc drives can be had for cheap, and this may save a load of aggrivation in the long run.
well its telling you that its gonna fail and as its anytime save save now because you only lose whats impossible to replace. as bob proffit says and i agree a hard drives only temp storage place
while you're at it take a look inside the box and see what brand of hard drive you have. if you have a custom built computer with a good hard drive it may have a 3 year warranty on it and manufacturers such as western digital will have the warranty expiration date for the drive you have on file. all you have to do is go online and tell them the serial number. if you have a el-cheapo pc like the ones they sell at large retail stores you will probably be out of luck. good luck
lucky for you to receive that message, other's don't, hence, they panic when their hdds bog down and they were not able to back-up their files. do back-up your files while you still have the time, don't wait for your hdd to falter. we all know that electronic parts however high quality made they are have a lifetime. one reason why computer parts' costs had gone down is not because of over supply (the demand is real high - law of supply and demand) nor because of competition or cheaper production cost, but they do have shorter life span nowadays.
