would you run out in the road naked waiting for your clothes to dry on the line or in the dryer (for all you yuppie/x'ers out there)? why would you want to wait for your windows machine to boot from a cold start? going out in the nude has got to be more fun! i've only cut off the computer (since 1985) i use when on vacations extending over 2 days, really bad lightning storms in this southern town that are close, and whenever windows takes a mind to just quit working. in all these years, i've had one catastrophic failure (a regulator on a motherboard fried, and took the cpu with it). that after 4 years of good service (amd k6-2/550 cpu and ecs mb ((last ecs i'll ever have))). all other problems (cooling fans only) have been detected through smell and good hardware/software compatibility and selection. i repair computers of all makes and models, sizes and descriptions. most of these repairs are due to spiking of power by using the surge protector to turn the machines on and off, or the wear out of the actual on/off buttons for the power supplies themselves, or lightning going in to the mb via modems. the spiking problems are inherent in hard drive failures, ram quirks all of a sudden, or power supplies fan failures (usually just the fan itself). don't you all know that electrical spikes at start up cause more damage than just continually powered up equipment? come on - get a life -spend your children's inheritance on the power company - you do own stock in it, i'm sure! be a good shareholder and invest in this most necessary of everyday conveniences. or just go out and be the cavegirl/boy and stick your head in the sand.
you need more ram or system optimizing. if you are seriously waiting any amount of time for your system to boot - you are under-powered or you have too much garbage in your start-up menu. and as to the life-expectancy, four years is nothing. my old 100 mhz green board tower, the first one i ever built, is over 12 years old. still runs like a champ! (they really don't build things like they used to...) so does its 1.68 gig maxtor hard drive. turned it off every 18 to 20 hours, or whenever i took a few hours break to sleep. i also always install extra case fansss! my current main computer has exhaust fans in the top front bay, the rear panel and the top of the case cover in addition to the standard power supply and cpu fans and hard drive cooling fans with heat sinks for each of the three hard drives. when it comes to mobo's and processors, heat b-a-a-a-d, shutdown good! if you're still not happy with your microsoft product, you could always get a mac
do you leave your car running or shut it off? the worst thing that you can do to your car is start it! the worst thing you can do to a diesel engine, is start it. so, do you leave it running? of course not. how long do you want that hard drive to last? do you like the information you now have on that hard drive? of course you do. shut down when you are not using, it is just wise investment! also, shutting down allows your computer to reconfigure when it starts up. your computer is not human - it doesn't know whether 24 hours have past or 5 minutes have past by. sure the clock knows, but it doesn't tell the rest of the system this knowledge. the computer is a machine, pure and simple! the macintosh computer was made to restart and shut down. so is the pc. have you ever noticed the people who tell you to leave it on are also people who sell computer parts? humm, wonder if there is any correlation there? as for electrical spikes, how many of you use a electrical device to protect your system? this same device also protects against spikes! read the directions and you'll know this. and this means you mac users too! read the directions, you can actually learn something! my phone line is protected, it protects my modem and it too is protected from spikes. which i should add, the only time you will ever get a spike of electrical power coming into your home or your computer is after the power company has lost power and they turn the power back on, there is a surge of electricity, this is called a spike. obviously the writer &quot;sdleggett&quot; is not aware of what a true spike is.
