my browser and pc were both hit last week; browser was hijacked; pc was hit by viruses; pc took 15 hits last week; thought my norton was working; must not have been. sent all 15 hits to norton for analysis; all 15 hits were listed as having adware components. unable to repair; have been advised by others to buy a new pc; trash the old one since i can't seem to repair the damage. would like recommendations on a basic entry level new desktop pc; nothing from dell since i have issues with their tech support for home office pc's plus all of the negative feedback i've read in other forums about dell and their company's poor customer service and tech support. i would be using my new pc to do word processing; email; internet and home finance. i'm not into computer games or digital photography. would also like to know what new security software i should have installed on any new pc before connecting it to the internet. i want to avoid a repeat of what has just happened to my old pc last week which seemed to be running fine on win 95 until these attacks took place last week. big steve end of message 04/06/05
i would get the emachines t6212. cost around $600. good value cuz has pciexpress x16 slot for gfx card upgrade and 512mb ram. should install the following from download.com adaware se personal 1.05 spware doctor spybot search and destroy zone alarm 5.5 zoneprotect personal firewall 1.0
i not sure if the zone ones are free
nerdyboy: thanks for the reply. big steve end of reply 04/07/05
i'd get a new hard drive which removes any chance of the virus being there (how to remove virus from ram, turn of the pc, the ram loses anything stored in ram the second power is not supplied (as it has to refresh every few miliseconds to store data (which is why flash dram is un-usable for memory storage) just grab a new ide hard drive  i'd get an 80gb personally and then install your os of choice you'll be fine
see the name of the files, and manually delete them. most of the time, they say that it can't be repaired, so i manually delete. roger
question: what if anything do you know about norton's anti-virus software? i have norton av 2004 installed but haven't been able to receive any live updates for quite sometime. what could possibly be causing me to not be able to receive any of norton's live updates? i have had no success in contacting norton for an explanation and my av subscription is scheduled to expire in nine days. big steve end of reply 04/10/05
it seems like your system is jsut sorta on the fritz you have a few options but what i'd do right off the bat is reformat with a clean install of windows do not connect to the internet yet upon reformatting re-install nav 2004 goto the store, and buy a copy of maximumpc that includes a cd with at least firefox (your doing this to get the cd, you can keep the mag if you want (their usually pretty decent) but firefox is what you want, along with spybot s&d) still do not connect to the web install spybot s&d and firefox (firefox is a web broswer, if you don't wanna pay $9 for a maximumpc, connect to the web after installing nav 2k4, and then go straight to  and dl firefox, and then get spybot s&d) firefox keeps spwyare and adware out, and automatically blocks pop-ups it's just such a great web broswer using ie 6 npf 2003 on my system would give me pop up block alerts, intrusion stuff, and various other things all the time with firefox, i get firefox telling me it's doing something, and npf2003 (and prevx...which is annoying to say the least, invision npf's intrusion detection, combined with spybot's registry protection thing, btw i have spybot and npf! so i get 3 alerts at about anything that affects windows...but hey, it keeps the system clean) firefox just makes the web better
it's a lot less expensive.
do a clean install; install a firewall and av and spybot, adaware, ms antispy, spywareguard and spywareblaster,cwshredder and crapcleaner before you go on internet. new pc why?
when you say simply re-install windows which in my particular case would be windows 95; do you mean by use of the windows 95 cd? my brother gave me this computer as a birthday gift 6 years ago come this june 2005 and unfortunately a windows 95 cd wasn't included with it so that would be a problem; correct? i've got my eyes on that new emachine t6212 i think; that might not be the correct model number. since i know basically nothing about the workings of a computer; if i do decide to buy that emachine; should i also consider purchasing an extended warranty or not? if so for how many years? please advise. big steve end of reply 04/11/05
looks like a super machine at that price.  as far as the extended warranty...there's no &quot;right&quot; answer. circuit city wants $139 for two years. without reading all the fine print, i think this means it is two years in addition to the 12-month factory warranty. it's really a &quot;peace of mind&quot; thing, a form of insurance like any other insurance. i guess it all comes down to how long you will keep, and be happy, with the system. you might be ready to dump it in a year. or maybe not. regardless, it looks terrific. pick up a nice flat-panel monitor and you're good to go.
