i am trying to set up a wired router to a wireless router. i would just get rid of the wired router (model no. r1524su - actiontec), except my internet requires the phoneline (it's a modem -dsl connection) to function. the router has a phone-in port and 4 ethernet ports for connecting 4 computers simultaneously... when i try to connect my wireless router (model - netgear wgr614 (v6)), the network will work for a small amount of time and will then kick out on me - i will experience frequent connection problems and the like. how can i connect the two together so that they will function correctly together? thanks everyone, help is much appreciated
i think the problem may be in interference of your network addresses. go to the router configuration of any one of the router and router network address from 192.168.1.,,, to 192.168.2.,,,. hope this helps. i had the same problem. - shri garg
you need both routers running on the same subnet (192.168.0.xxx). this is required for your computer to be able to talk to the router with internet access. i have a set up with two d-link routers, but i have set up d-link and linksys routers on the same network before, any combination should be possible. to set them up right, you will need to disable dhcp on the router that is not connected directly to the dsl, and make sure that the ip addresses on the routers do not conflict. ie, one should be 192.168.0.1, the next 192.168.0.2. let me know if this helps.
ok so i disabled dchp on my netgear and now that i did, i can't login to my router... now that the ip isn't automatically assigned, i get an &quot;automatic private address&quot; issued... how do i log back in? oh, plus, will i connect my wired ethernet pcs into the wireless (netgear), or the wired (actiontec), the one that recieves the internet through the phone line? you guys have been great so far...
plug the power cable into the secondary router, at this point no pc's or other network devices should be plugged into the router. press and hold the reset button on the router for 10-30 seconds, this will return the router to its factory settings and avoid any complications from the set-up you might have had when the router was being used as a primary router. connect a pc that is going to be on the second network into one of the numbered ports using standard straight-through ethernet cable (you'd have to ask specifically for 'cross-over' eithernet so don't worry to much about the name), i suggest you plug it in to port 1 but any will do. now restart or turn on the pc you just connected. a light should appear on the router correlating to the port you used to plug the pc into the router (e.g. if the pc is plugged into port 1, the light for port 1 on the front of the router should now be illuminated). when the computer has finished its start-up process, open your web browser. type 192.168.1.1 into the address bar and press enter. if this address fails to open a web page consult the router manual, as different manufacturers use different 'start' ip addresses (e.g. belkin use 192.168.2.1). a dialogue box should appear asking for a username/password. again you may have to consult your router manual for this. linksys tend to use 'linksys' for their password and belkin tend to use 'admin', neither of these use any username. however, if neither of these work then you will have to consult your router manual for the default password. when you have it, type it in and click ok. once you have accessed the routers adminstration/set-up page, find the page/area that allows you to change &quot;local ip&quot; and/or &quot;dchp&quot; (typically this page is called &quot;setup&quot; or something to that effect). first change the local ip to 192.168.1.2 - you will probably now be asked to re-type this new ip into the address bar of your web browser. next you need to disable dchp on the secondary router and ensure you save the settings. with all this done, your secondary router is configured - but don't forget to change the password that lets you access the adminstration settings for the router!! plug in the pc's and any other devices that are going to be connected to the secondary router (ensure 1 port is left free, e.g. if you have a 4 port router you can only connect 3 pc's or network devices - one port must be left for connecting the main router and this cannot be the wlan port). at this point switch off all the pc's and network devices (e.g. network printers), so that you can connect the secondary router to the main router. connecting the two routers together: unplug the power to both the primary and secondary routers - you actually don't have to do this step with the main router, essentially you need it to drop the network and come back 'up' again and if you know what you're doing this can be done via the main routers admin web page. the quick route though is just to unplug the power to both of the routers. using striaght-through ethernet cable, connect one end to the main router and the other to port 4 of the secondary router. now plug the power cables back into the routers, power up the main router and then the secondary router your two routers are now connected together. power up the pc's connected to the two networks respectively and check that they all have web-access etc. troubleshooting if your main router is a belkin router or other manufacturer that doesn't use 192.168.1.1 as their local ip, then you may need to adapt your settings on the secondary router. for example if your main router is a belkin router, which use 192.168.2.1, then you may find that your secondary router needs to be configured to local ip 192.168.2.2 always remember to restart your pc's, dchp probably won't spring into life on the first occasion of you plugging the wires in and hoping everything to be networked. upon connecting the two routers, its best to reset all the pc's before coming to the conclusion that something has gone wrong.
to answer the rest of your question - once you get your routers set up properly, it will not matter which you plug your wired devices into. the connection between will be transparent, and you or your computers will know no different between the primary and secondary. let us know how the setup goes.
i have the same netgear router. i have verizon dsl and they use a modem/router combo. the first tech person told me that i needed to change my ip address from 192.168.1.1 to 192.168.2.1 0r 192.168.3.1 i accidently changed the ip to 192.168.1.2 and it locked up the netgear router. i could not reset it to the factory defaults or nothing. i had to send it back for a replacement. try login in with this url  i use this url to login using internet explorer. before i could login, the tech person from netgear, walked me through the process. if the netgear router is new, register it. if you cannot reset it to factory settings, they will give you a case number. then contact the person you bought it from and exchange it for a new one. then register the new one. after registration, then call netgear support and have them help you configure it to a new ip number. as someone else said, the subnet numbers must match. hope this helps. rick
you all have been amazing... thanks especially to darton fury for the long, specific walkthrough. seems like everything is working, the netgear router did reset after being powered on and the reset button held down for a while. pc is hooked up to primary router and the netgear seems to be working. once i bring my pc or psp back here, i'll be able to test the wifi. (i am not living in my own house for the time being...) thanks everyone for the help... you all are gods and give great, fast responses. thanks!!!!!!!!!!!
well, tried everything, router 1 works just fine but if i restart and try to connect to router 2 (by connecting my pc wired to router 2), it won't issue me a valid ip, only an auto private address. if i go to properties and try to force the pc to use the ip 192.168.1.2 (the one that i configured the router(2) to use), it won't let me, it'll tell me that the static ip is already in use on the network... perhaps this isn't possible with my configuration? i'll diagram it if it helps... internet&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;router 1 (actiontec) (wired pcs connected)&gt;&gt;&gt;router 2 (wifi netgear)&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;wifi and other pcs router 2 is connected through a standard ethernet cable, from port 1 on router 1 to the &quot;internet&quot; ethernet imput on the netgear.......
wow... sorry all for triple posting... but i re-read through all of your comments and found out what the problem was. i was wiring the internet connection from wired router 1, port 1, to the netgear router in the internet port, not in one of the numbered ports... if that makes any sense. thanks everyone, you all have been so helpful
you caught your own mistake before i could pipe in. you hit the nail on the head. to clarify for everybody else; when connecting two routers together, you need to use the numbered ports, or an 'uplink' if you have one. the internet port is only be connected to a dsl or cable modem, not for linking routers together. glad everything worked out for you. enjoy the wireless
i hope this is my last post for questions... now... how do i configure my laptop? it will recognise the wireless, i'll type in the right password, and it will try to connect for ages and eventually give me an...... yes... a automatic private address! is this because dchp is disabled on the wireless? do i need to manually issue an ip that my router will recognise? why is it that my psp will connect just fine? same password and everything, it gets an ip just fine!!! (why is a $250 sony device better than a $1k hp pc??) do any of you know of a router that supports wireless, and offers the phone-input for internet? (something where they are all built-in and i don't even have to worry about cross-patching routers?) my actiontec (prim router) does support their own wireless cards, but only up to b, not g, so it would be way to slow. is wifi always this much of a pain? i mean, i know it's slow, succeptable to interference, and has shortages and deadspots, but honestly all i want is a way to get internet in my room without running a wire through rooms... my room doesn't have a modem port (phone), so i'd have to wire a 100ft ethernet cable... i have a special-needs child, so the cable would not be a great idea for medical reasons... guys!? thanks, you all. i owe you all a beer....
wireless b is more than fast enough for your internet connection. cable and dsl are usually 1.5 - 6 mbps downstream. 802.11b is capable of carrying 11mbps. there really is little benefit to running g if you are only looking for wireless internet. it may solve some of your woes to get the actiontec wireless b card for your router, and rid yourself of the troubles of patching an internet router with a wireless ap.
