hey, i have missplaced my quick restore cd for my compaq presario 7598. i spoke with technical support and they no longer supply the cd. does any have this cd and want to get rid of it or does anyone know a awy around my problem. i installed xp and uninstalled it and now i am having problems with some windows 98 drivers. any help is appreciated.
the drivers for anything that came with it from the compaq website which i think is now hp since they merged. search for the model # in google and you should get to the correct site. if you reformat the drive using the regular format you will also lose access to the bios. you should also be able to download files to a floppy that will allow you to access the bios / setup files again.
1. installing xp may have deleted the 4mb f10 diagnostic/boot menu nondos partition. do you still have the f10 &quot;setup&quot; option? at boot? 2. if not, you must start over again with no partitions on your hdd after downloading the floppy maker from hp-compaq and have 3 no-error floppies. you go through a process of inserting the different floppies back and forth or use the floppies by themselves at boot that will present bios/setup to you. 3. then make a primary dos fat32 partition and load win98. you'll have to have the downloaded drivers on a cd or slave hdd. 4.  to start the search for presario driver section and more. you only lose the f10 partition if you have deleted all partitions or have a new hdd.
i have a 7598. it has two restore disks. i have never used them but i can try to burn them but i am not sure you can do that. gene
where at first you said you didn't have one. these are cd's, right? yes they can be burnt if you make a cd image first, then burn from the image. why are you wanting to burn them? except they are borrowed? they should be allready labeled, 1 as system restore, which reformats the hdd, puts in the f10 partition, and loads the os. 2 is the driver and software cd, used next. what happens when u try them?
i dont know what you are talking about in your message. &quot;now you have two&quot; what does that mean. i have the same computer, he needs the restore disks. i have them and have never used them. i dont plan on giving them to him. but i will burn him a copy of each if it can be done, also if he is willing to pay for the cost of shipping. i have never opened the pack the restore disks came in and i dont know what they say on them.
sorry. i thought that was a gillaks reply. nice of you to offer a hard to find item. hope he responds. hope it is the same model compaq. again, yes you can burn them, suggested to make an image file first.
i can make you a copy of the cd's for $30.00....let me know if you are interested
i can give you the setup files for you maybe through your aim if you have one for free. i have a friend who has the exact same model as you, so i could get it for you. e-mail me at hkpk_2005@yahoo.com if you're interested...
u have the compaq presario cd's? needed to restores the system chipsets?? let me know darc_prime@yahoo.com
