is this a global problem? my screen blacked out before the 1 year warrenty, it settled down and was stable until 2 months after the warrenty expired. now i'm in the hp blackhole alongwith my screen. hp refuse to show any customer skills- how stupid were we to trust a hp product? hp claim this is not a common problem and have no evidence of widespread complaints - they have no plans for a product recall - obviously they won't listen, it would cost them too much ! the f1703 is not fit for the purpose intended and not of merchantable quality on a global scale. im taking it to the press in the uk and would appreciate your support. we need to show some consumer power and hp need to show they are fit to present themselves as a quality global brand.
did they honor the warranty? bob
are you still are having problems with your hp monitor, or have you thrown it in the trash already? reply back, and i'll let you know what i found out about this problem..
i have my damn f1703 still on and it started to act up again so i usually just turn it off and on but that isnt working no more = ( can someone help me out or let me know wtf to do?
i purchased this moniter on may 26 of last year (2004), and this issue didn't get worse until the beginning of this week... my monitor only stays on for 2 seconds, and then blacks out. i called up hp yesterday, and they said that they have been having alot of problems with these monitors lately, so therefore, they extended the warrenty, but then he also said only 4 out of 10 people are capable of receiveing a new moniter (and i was one), so they're sending me a new one of these crap things withing 3 weeks or so, and i have to mail my broken one back. i am expecting the new one to breakdown as well, but until then since it's free i'm just going to &quot;enjoy&quot; using it, and then buy a dell or something .. never buy hp!!!!!!!!!
...they aren't known for their monitors...i, like you guys, found out the hard way...but, i found a solution, if you have the daring and the guts to dig into the monitor...no guarantees....this'll void your warranty, so proceed with caution....but it's relatively easy, with a few common hand tools...screwdrivers, needle nose pliers.....worked for me...reply back to this discussion, and i'll tell you what i did...monitor's working fine for now, so far, so good..:) matt
i'm kind of desperate to get a video back so i can access my files so i'll give it a try. i'm in some sort of dialogue with hp and have filed complaints with the bbb in their area but that's not helping me get anything done. i'd appreciate it if you could let me know how you got yours working. thanks.
i would love to know your suggestion on how to fix the problem. our f1703 just went off warranty so i would like to try it!
...from athens, tx, usa...i usually reside near port arthur, tx, but unfortunately hurricane rita has displaced me for a while, and the instructions i have that helped me get the monitor back up and working are back home...it involves dis-assembly of the monitor and removal of a heat-shield looking thingy inside...i would not want to try to talk you through the process without the details i have back home, so i will post back here (hopefully within a week or so) as soon as i get back home...sorry for the inconvenience... matt
after all my ranting last week, i did get the problem solved by hp. even if you are out of warranty, if your monitor meets the requirement shown on their web site you will get a replaement monitor shipped to you and materials for shipping your old one back to them. i strongly disagree with their requiement that you give them a credit card number as collateral and really went to town on customer service but did finally give in and give it to them so i could get back up and running. i was very pleasantly surprised when the new monitor arrived the next day and everything is now working. i kept calling customer service until i actually got an agent i could understand and who spoke with me instead of reading from a script and putting me on hold - once for an hour. i also e-mailed the ceo of hp and got two phone calls the next day from his consumer affairs deptartment. keep at it. it is a defective product and they know about it. good luck.
i just got off of the phone with hp and they are replacing my f1703. it will be a month, but they are replacing it. they said they would replace f1703s even if they are out of warranty.
what is the ceo's email address? i think a month is way to long to wait for a replacement. thanks!
i too have an hp laptop where the monitor just died. i would appreciate help.
i just went to their corporate web site and drilled through menus and found a way to contact his office. got lots of phone calls for the next 48 hours. the problem was solved, i just don't like their procedures. good luck. soryy it took so long to get back and hope your problem is solved by now.
mine just went out too. what did you do to fix yours. my warenty has expired
hp pavilion f1703 lcd monitor - intermittent video, no video, no backlight  thanks, lennyo !!!
thanks to all who posted here. special thanks for the link to hp. took me 15 min on the phone for them to ship me a replacement monitor - 3 months out of warranty. while i appreciate the replacement, i already bought a new viewsonic 19&quot; lcd for about 1/2 what hp charged me for the 17&quot; monitor 15 months ago. what a difference. the hp f1703 is a piece of crap. perhaps i can sell it on ebay. no more hp products for me.
matt if you still have a fix for this monitor can you let me know because i am stuck with two of them and all they do is turn on for 30 seconds and then go back to sleep. williams.henry@hotmail.com
do you have instructions and diagrams to show how to fix the black out problems. i understand there is some soldiering to do to fix the problem, due to bad soldering in the manufacture of this product, do you know where to solder to fix it? thanks for any help you can give me. linda
i have seen the diagrams that show one contact point to re-soldie but i need to know where they all are, can't figure it out from the instructions. can you help?
