just wondering. with all the hype of win7 being released at the end of 2009, what's the scoop on upgrading pcs to take advantage of the new technology? does anyone know if you can just upgrade / buy a new monitor, will you need a new monitor and another interface card you can plug into your pc, or will you have to get an entirely new system altogether if you want to be touchy-feely? the technology's so new that i haven't found a lot of info online about the specific monitors yet.
very generic and look like a mouse to windows. so there is nothing special needed for them to work. the technology is no longer new. bob
thanks for the info. it's time to build or buy a new pc again, and i will probably hold out until win7 launches or build it with vista and upgrade. if all i have to do is buy a touchscreen monitor later to add on to an existing system, that's great.
we use the touch screens for factory testing setups, point of sale and such. but the brutal truth is that for long use its far too hard on people. try this. pretend a spot on your desk is a mouse tap area of your screen. now tap it. fine. no problem. now tap it for an hour. most people will end up with a sore finger. bob
i review and sometimes create a lot of print collateral. i concur that touch screen technology would get really tedious for msoffice chores or scrolling a long web page. but it would be awesome if the technology could interface with edits in photoshop, illustrator, or other graphic design programs. a clicking mouse gets on my nerves when i'm trying to drag a photo to a trash can. i keep missing the trash can
hp has one out now. most will look at drawing pads and other things as well. no need to wait. bob
now you've uncovered my real agenda. what will probably occur is, if all the hype around win7 creates a real demand (and supply) of touchscreen monitors, maybe by 2010 there will be a few more players in the market and competition will make larger screens cheaper and give us a few more choices. hps touchscreen system got mixed reviews -- well, the two that i read anyway. but, back to your original suggestion --- for right now, a good ol mouse is doing just fine!
&quot;the tablet pc.&quot; let's get back to windows 7 for a second. my sources think one of the major reasons for 7 is the netbook. i think i agree. bob
that's probably a good secondary objective, touchy-feely netbooks. and to be honest, 75% of what i really do can be performed on a netbook. but we know the real reason for win7 --- maybe everyone will forget about vista. and just my luck. i was one of the boobs that bought a pc when windowsme was launched too, and i went and did the same thing with vista. you would think i would have learned my lesson by now.
this is the biggest scam any corporation could put onto general sale before all the others users of windows products have had chance to provide all the drivers required to operate the system, it states you will not loose any of your programs, i purchased windows 7 upgrade ultimate as a download with back up disc, on downloading the upgrade when it got to the final section of the upgrade it stated upgrade unsucessfull, it will restore back to the original settings, did it hell it wiped out my accounts, my payroll, microsoft works,and all other software that was on vista ultimate, i paid a computer expertto recover my data, this program is a sham windows xp is far better than vista ultimate is controllable,if you have any disc that states windowxp, vista version 12.0.0 it will not work,hp solutions which i use for uploading material is wiped out,can i sue them yes i will
&gt;&gt;can i sue them yes i will good luck. you'll make headlines if you're successful. before looking for a prosecuting lawyer, find yourself a bankruptcy lawyer first.
