hi there, i have an acer aspire 5610 laptop. windows died recently and if i use the acer recovery program i will lose the contents of my hard drives - something i am very keen to avoid. so i got my hands on a windows xp pro cd and have installed windows. the problem is now i cannot for the life of me get it to recognize my maxtor usb external hard drive. i've installed every little thing i can find on the acer/intel/microsoft/maxtor websites etc but still nothing. i've tried uninstalling the usb ports and reinstalling them - still nothing. i've checked device manager to see if it's recognized but not mapping correctly - it's not in device manager. i went into my bios to ensure that usb was enabled and it's not an option in the menu (i have phoenixbios). i have tested the external hard drive on other pc's and it works fine. when i plug it into my notebook it plays the sound to say it's recognized a usb input and then the usb symbol displays in the task bar with the message &quot;device not recognized&quot; - what can i do to get this to work - i've spent 26 hours so far and nothing has worked and it would take me forever to back 120gb onto dvds! any suggestions would be greatly appreciated!
microsoft's xp cds and many others don't have the drivers. here's what i do when i need to save an owner's files. i boot up one of our collection of livecd's that have linux on them (you don't need to know linux!) and i can look at the files and then copy then off to some usb hard disk or over to our network (usually via ethernet). getting that xp working may or may not be possible. why? are the laptop drivers available on acer.com? bob
i know nothing about linux - if i install a linux operating system will that support usb?? i've already downloaded some drivers from acer but they haven't made a difference sadly.
the current cds i use most often is ubuntu and pclinuxos 2007. these do not touch your current hard disk so you can look around without any commitment. bob
something new to try - it's exciting because there is pretty much nowhere to go with windows it seems! so how do i use the programs?? like i said i know nothing of unix. and where do i find them?
as to use, you double click on my computer and ... well you get the idea. bob
