hi, yestesrday i installed a new virus software, it installed restarted it and the computer was acting weird so i switched it off. went to restart and nothing it just loops trying to start and then saying set up is being restarted. i have bought a cable to connect my harddrive so i can get the information off it so i can reformat the drive. however when i go to look at the information to get off it, all the information is stored under my profile. which when windows loads asks me to type in the password. however now i can't get access to this folder it just tells me access denied. i know the password but it doens't give the option it just tells me access denied and i wanted to know if there was a way to get this profile password off as i really need the information on the hard drive. i am truely hacked off by this problem now and the fact that the virus software killed my computer never use bit defender!! so any help to resolve this problem would be very gratefully appriciated. thanks ceri
yes, people say to never call them in because sometimes the building is blown up. who knows if some pest decided to go nuclear as it spotted the install of an antivirus? i think you see the point. on to how i (safely) recover files. 1. i remove the old drive. 2. i install a new blank drive. 3. i install the os, drivers and &quot;protection.&quot; 4. the old drive is added to the machine and we copy off the files. 5. if xp complains we type &quot;xp take ownership&quot; into google.com i'm sure there are less safe ways but i don't trust them. bob
however i have attached the old drive to my laptop and i can't copy the document and settings folder, with my user account in because it says access denied. how will putting in a blank drive and reinstalling windows illiminate the problem i already have because i still wont have access to that folder because it is password protected. sorry for the questions i appriciate the answer i just want to be sure about things.
that's usually it.
honestly that can't be the only answer, you can get information off the hard drive its just a matter of how and there must be someone who can help and tell me how to get to the files i want even though it has a password kinda embeded on it.
sorry i missed the title that said see item 5 i will look into that
