first, let me say, i'm very impressed with the knowledge of the members here. last weeks question about sharing files and printer between pcs prompted my own question. i have a mac g4 os 10.2 hooked up to a hp smartjet printer. i also have a fujitsu laptop pc running xp pro. they're both on a linksys wireless network. my question is does anyone know if it's possible to share files and the printer between the mac and my laptop. if so, how would i go about doing that? thanks
hi rhender105, yes it is possible to setup file sharing between the 2 over your network. windows isnt very &quot;friendly&quot; with non-windows computers so your non-windows computers have to trick windows into thinking its just another windows pc. the way this is done is via samba. samba is used in linux and macosx environments to allow sharing of files. i dont have the exact instructions for macosx but i'm sure apple's website provides good information about it (i've seen it there somewhere before). i may not be a macosx user currently but i use linux (which both run off unix environment) and they use a lot of the same technics and programs. hope this helps!
select a folder to share on the xp machine, say my documents, and share it. go to the mac and &quot;connect to server&quot; and you should see the xp machine there. double click, enter the username of the xp user and the password and it should just connect. i connect to a w2k machine with no problem. hope this helps too p
mrmacfixit, thanks for the advice. tried it. works great. because of my work environment, i have to work with pc's most of the time. so i have to have a pc at home. my wife is a graphic designer, so her world is macs. she gets to have all the fun. of course, i'm on the mac every chance i get. anyway, at home i'm the go to guy when it comes to anything tech. lately, my wife has been having trouble with applications quitting unexpectedly. safari, ie, photoshop, quark, and others. she has a g4 mirrored front tower. running os x 10.2.8. do you have any idea how i would go about investigating/fixing this problem. thanks for any help. rickey
using the disk utility in the applications/utilities folder. that's a start. disk warrior is a must have for mac users. it is a directory rebuilder. download onyx and run the routines in that. in a worst cast scenario, a clean archive and install will replace the system with a new one and save all your data and settings. do not start deleting things you do not recognize p
