i am running windows xp and i just wanted to know if there are any good registry cleaners. my computer is running slow and i assume that that is what i need to do to make it pick up. my internet is slow (i have shaw highspeed), programs start slowly, and my computer just doesn't respond as well anymore. thanks
it's more often choices we made as to how much runs at a time, once in awhile issues with antivirus choices (free avg?) or malware. try a few of this forum's favorite freebies like... ccleaner malwarebytes
be cautious with some of that stuff but as bob mentioned, doesn't smack of a registry issue.
i would start out with 'malwarebytes' to check for malware then i would download 'advanced windowscare' [try the beta3]. it is easy and does no harm. if you don't want that - cc cleaner is another that does no harm and is good, easy to use.
superantispyware. i have used it and malwarebytes. these freebies found items that adaware and spybot s & d didn't find.
my husband uses cccleaner, and mr. fussy is very pleased with it. i like registry fix (which is not free, but worth the money)--it has a super simple interface, you can customize it, and i have never felt uncomfortable using it. it tells you what it did, asks you if you want to save or repair, and that's it. no scary stuff.
always back up the registry. the software asks you if you want to back it up. i've used ccleaner for a long time, it's very safe and never had an issue with it.
i have been using &quot;regcure&quot; by paretologic technologies for several years without major problems. also i use in conjuction with it: &quot;system mechanic pro 8&quot; by iolo technologies, ccleaner and a new one i stumbled upon: &quot;netcom3&quot; which will optimize your registry, search for parasites, and can be used side-by-side with your current antivirus program. it includes pop-up blockers, site guards, system back-up and more !!! the two i like most are system mechanic (which i've use around 5 years now) it will speed up your internet connection you speak of as well as many other individual utilities within it to keep your computer running in top shape. my second favorite i used in the last six months or so: netcom3. a good defragmentation program such as &quot;diskeeper&quot; will help if you do a lot of uninstalling/downloading, ect., like i do. good luck....check them out!!!
registry repair by stompsoft, works great, its easy, not expensive. at costco it is $25. i have used it when needed for at least 6 years.
i use the excellent, simple glary utilities freeware. it has a simple one-click cleaner, and also lets you wipe empty tracks - though on internet explorer only.
dell tech support tells me that registry cleaners are unnecessary.
if you tend to download and uninstall a number of programs, apps, and games, uninstall does not clean out everything. example: if you have yahoo messenger installed and then 'uninstall&quot; it the right way, and then check in the registry, you will find the entire installation still sitting there, right down to the executable bits. the only way to remove them without a registry cleaner is one at a time, hundreds and hundreds of bits. every time you download anything on your computer, when you delete it, it leaves a fingerprint behind in the registry. a cleaner will go after those fingerprints, cleaning out all the loose flappy things that don't belong to anything anymore; dll files, missing files, bits of games and apps you thought you had deleted years ago. they dont do any harm, perhaps, but over time they build up. when i installed registryfix, i had about 200 of those things in the registry. now i get maybe two or three a week, and can manage them nicely.
hello i think you, must use a anti spyware (kaspersky internet security) also, you must use &quot;ccleaner&quot; goodluck
...unless you're seriously expert in your technical understanding of the windows registry - say, one in one hundred windows users sort of *expert*. i would not recommend messing with your windows registry at all, unless you're *expert*. items like ccleaner, registry cleaner and similar have caused more blue screens of death (*bsod*) for windows users than any other product class that i know of. if you want to get rid of the *gunk* from your system that windows builds in the temp files / folders, browser caches, etc, try *atf cleaner* from  but because your system is running noticeably slow, it probably has little to do with some accumulated junk that needs cleaning. the problem - short of a system infection, which others have addressed here - might probably be a hardware-related one. contact your manufacturer (hp, dell, lenovo, etc) with the problem or go to their website. most of the big manufacturers have system / hardware diagnostics programs and driver update programs for each machine they built. run these diagnostics programs and make the needed updates recommended on their site. if the machine's still running far too slow after getting your needed and recommended oem updates, you have to decide whether it's smarter to send it in for repair for whatever they'll charge or whether it's smarter to put it off to the side and invest in a new system.
i trust cccleaner, i have tried also advanced windows care v2 personal and also glary utilities. i believe in registry cleaners. i think you should use them. first, read them carefully and work with settings. second, you should check start menu. maybe there are few softs that start together with the sistem. advanced windows care v2 personal is very good at this. if there are few softs to start with the sistem, they will slow the sistem, of course. good luck!
i agree, i trust the concept of registry cleaners, but unless im comfortable with the process involved, i won't use one. there are scams out there, sure. but most of it is common sense. my husband, who has never used one, was having a problem with something on the computer that he couldnt resolve. he got ccleaner and cleaned it right out. i am familiar with the registry enough to know how to deal with it, how to stop processes from working, how to clean it by hand. now and then it's necessary. too many people, yes, can muck up what they have by seeing funny names in there, and deleting everything in sight. it also helps to understand its purpose, which is to be a repository for every bloody thing that ever crosses your computer window. you have to do your homework. i like mine, my husband likes his. we're comfortable with them both. frankly nav caused me more headaches than a registry cleaner every has.
you have work to do and many answers.here's another one.first,my os is windows xp-home edition-sp2/celeron 1.7ghz processor. my opinion is:before you spend any money on shareware try freeware. 1.-run antivirus:avast4.8,avgfree,mcafeefree,etc. 2.-defrag.your hd:iobit smartdefrag 3.-cm diskcleaner v2.1.7(i've been using it about 4 years)it makes -for you-a restore point of your system before anything.also has *disk cleaner&gt;clean garbage on disks *applications cleaner&gt;old entries not removed *optimize ram *file eraser&gt;prevent recovery tools to find delete files *one clip clean up&gt;clean pc fast & easy bob:good luck!---by the way:yes!registry is a delicate issue and i'm not an expert neither but we try to help each other.
what you are saying about registry cleaners being 'all bad' is probably a holdover from the days when they were new and a bit shaky around the edges. it's also like saying, &quot;my dad had a chevy truck and it was a lemon' and refuse to even consider another chevy anything, ever, because someone else had a bad experience. learn from the bad experiences, but don't let it color your own attitudes about stuff to the point where you lose more than you gain by avoidance. and yes, try a freebie that will give you a demo first, look at what they find, do your homework by finding forums for that cleaner, online, and what problems they're having. dont listen to the hype in the ads. listen to users.
mittens?:you missed the point.about i trust in reg cleaners comes from two quotes of user's answers:one said:&quot;the dell techs says reg cleaners doesn't work!&quot; the other one says:&quot;we are not expert,the pc registry is delicate&quot;.so,i just gave him an option,there's another good software out there.i've never choosed a product before listen what the users say about it.i never follow the &quot;hype ads&quot;.i guess it was a bad interpretation,anyways,tku for your reply
fair enough.
there is a great registry cleaner i use call &lt;a href=&quot;  &gt;ms-errors&lt;/a&gt;, i use it on my both pc's with different os one is xp the other is vista. this registry cleaner fixed many errors i had and the slow preformance i had. i recommend that soft but use what you think is the best for you.
