first off i did not realise a dvd drive used two lasers to read either dvd and normal cd rom + music disks. how long should a dvd or other optical drive last? my drive still plays all my music cds and can read cd roms but it will not read any of my movies any more. all they do is spin the drive up and then it says there is &quot;no disk in drive.&quot; drive is about 14 months old. is this how long these things are meant to last these days?
some machines will get months, others years. the deciding factor i'm seeing is how hot it is inside the computer case. while many owners learn about cpu temperatures they often neglect cooling for other parts. a year may be typical for a box where the drive is a bit warm. bob
a few yrs. ago many a cd drive would last longer and the reason is the speed factor. as drives become more speed-x they have little room for error and &quot;settledown&quot; time is nil and quickly errors out. however, a basic cd drive is darn cheap nowadays and reflects that, but quality still matters and usually will last longer excludes any other factor. dvd drives by default are more demanding and quite easily get tossed early after normal wear&tear. my rule of thunb upon hearing a drive going bad, is it at least 1yr. and used often, then you got your money's worth if brought with the system. plus, now you have the &quot;combo drives&quot; which just allows more possibilites of having a problem, so there you go. tada -----willy
you guys won't believe this but just today i put a dvd into the drive and it worked!!! i fell of my seat almost literally. i think i have solved the problem of why it did not work when i first mentioned this on monday. the drive has drive belts inside that spin the disk. i am not sure what the belts are made of but they seem to be a bit greasy to the touch and sometimes the drive won't spin properly when the disk is inside it.. dvd disks spin at a higher speed then normal cd or cd rom and i suspect that all this fuss might be due to the crap quality of the drive belts and this &quot;greasy&quot; substance that builds up on them......
