i have a belkin n+ wireless router for the convenience of our guests. a couple of our guests aren't able to connect to the internet, and the common denominator is that they are using apple products. one is an i-pad. other guests with windows laptops are getting on the internet okay. i have the network set up with wpa2-psk security. does anyone have an idea as to what could be wrong? i feel bad that these people can't connect.
set the router per this forums suggestions then pull back to 802.11g and wpa. i have never had this fail me when an apple was involved. bob
thanks for your response, bob. i'm surprised and dismayed at the idea of downgrading the settings of the router. kind of negates the advantage of getting the latest and the greatest equipment, which is why i bought this router, per the recommendations of the cnet editors. wouldn't switching to wireless g compromise the increased range and speed of the newer n standard? same with changing from the more secure wpa2 to the less secure wpa security?
but wpa is still tough to crack. and you can mix and match the advice to see which item it is that is causing an issue. it could be the old hidden ssid issue but you didn't write that. once in a while i encounter a client that won't try something because &quot;what i have now should work.&quot; then i know that they will have to buy a new router. bob
...to try one fix at a time. i could try switching to wpa and see what happens. by hidden ssid, do you mean hiding the network's name from view? i haven't done that. i want our guests to see our network's name show up on their computer, then enter the password. would you recommend a better router to use? the important thing to me was getting the longest range, to reach our whole building, which this one does. thanks.
my advice was &quot;everything i change to be as compatible with the most things.&quot; the advice at the top of this forum is well worn advice. don't hide the ssid. it's not adding security and in some setups folk find the connection drops out. ok, ok yes this means there is some driver or other item that is showing there is a bug but it is our choice to &quot;go with what works and is secure.&quot; wpa has no ready exploit that we know. yes there is that tool that you can run and then take a day's reading then pay for a cloud service to crack it in a few days but this is far beyond what your average kiddie will do since &quot;they have to pay for it.&quot; hope this helps and remember to try the latest router firmware too. bob
in regard to the suggested changes in settings for the router i got to thinking that everything i've read about the different wireless standards says that the newer ones are backward compatible with the older ones. is there more to the story?
in checking the router's settings, there are three settings for the wireless mode switch; n only, g only, or n+g+b. it was set on n+g+b. seems like the correct setting would be n+g+b if you wanted to accommodate all users.
but my printer would not play with my first n router on that setting. i had to set the router to g mode. since there was no firmware update i returned that model and the next model is fine. i've encountered folk that get stuck on &quot;this should work&quot; rather than experiment to see what works. bob
