hello, and thanks in advance for your time. i'm running a dell latitude e6500, and ever since i pulled it out of the box a few days ago, the disk drive will not recognize new disks. if an audio cd is in the drive, and i switch it to a data cd, it will not change the icon or name of the disk in the drive. for example, if cd a is in the drive on boot, and ten minutes later i replace it with cd b, when i open computer i still see the information for cd a instead of the information for cd b. when i hit &quot;explore&quot;, however, i see cd b's data. even after i have done this, cd a's information remains displayed. i run windows vista ultimate, and the drive is an &quot;hl-dt-st dvd+-rw gsa-u20n&quot;. i already checked for driver updates, loose contacts, and autoplay issues. any help would be greatly appreciated, and as you can see, this is my first post on these forums, so if i left out any necessary information, let me know and i should get back to the thread within a short time.
i would reseat the connections at both ends, several times. verify that any addressing jumper is present or is proper. why, did you pull the drive in the 1st place, to access something or replace it, etc? did you use proper &quot;static&quot; handling? if not, then you now have the result from improper handling. if this is sata type connection, these can be awful when reconnecting as it is possible to break or spread the contacts from touching 100%. verify all this and come back with results. tada -----willy
the latitude is a laptop, it shipped with this issue, so static is out. but yes, i own an antistatic mat and wrist strap and utilize both when working with internal components (i've been called paranoid). and i did not remove the drive &quot;in the first place&quot;, i did it in response to this problem. thanks!
i pulled and reseated the drive in order to (potentially) solve this problem, which arose before i did so. that's better.
if this is a new laptop, use the warranty. however, you may have voided the warranty, depends. if this is used and can return it as it wasn't stated having that problem, if possible. because, this is a laptop, a repair from a proper shop maybe the only cure. other than a hd swap, could you begin suspect something else. your options become very limited as user repair. i have laptop adapter/kit to see if the hd works elsewhere. you can use usb ext. case as well to check out hd. tada -----willy
