i am trying to transfer some pics/vids from my sony cybershot camera onto my dell studio laptop (vista). when i plug in the memory card reader it installs as drive f, but when i click it, i get the &quot;please insert a disk into drive f&quot; message. obviously the memory card is in the reader so i have no clue why it isn't being read. the card works fine in the camera, i can view the pics and vids i am trying to transfer. i have also tried plugging the reader and card into two desktops, a dell running vista and an hp running xp. oh and the reader also shows that the memory card has been inserted by lighting up green, so i don't know that it is the reader's problem (i don't really know what the problem is, that's why i'm here). the reader is a dynex dx-cr501. of all the problems i have had with computers or electronics this is by far the most frustrating! i seriously want to punt a cat that's how frustrated i am. any help is greatly appreciated...
wow..that sounds great but 6 in a slot? that seems to me it has to be a very precise device for perfect alignments. does it seem to seated well?
not really, i mean, i do have to use tweasers in order to get the card out of the reader (i think that's what you mean); but it has worked before so i don't think that is the reason it isn't working.
for the sony cards you need to get and adaptor (card slides into it) then you put card into the reader, otherwise you can have problems, that is a sony thing.
the card isn't a sony as far as i know, but i know what yu mean i am going to try to get an adapter for it, thanks.
same problem here with sandisk 4gb hdsc card (i have 2 other identical cards that still work so it is definately a problem either with the physical card hardware failing or a virus in the root of the card - which there is no apparent way of clearing as the disk is only accessable for the initial 3-4 secs of being read on insertion to the reader (still managed to salvage a few of my smaller files by quick copy and paste (drag&drop) to the desktop. however large *.pst files are apparently lost. i intend to return the card to sandisk with an explanitory note (their support line simply advised me to invest in a recovery tool - that can't work because the drive only exists for those few seconds - and i think that as there is a possibility that the fault is a physical defect they should at least attempt to fix/recover the data. sage advice to back up these things regularly - my last was early feb and between that and the recovery of those smaller files it is not a complete disaster this time - but still loss of e-mails may matter later on. let me know if you have managed to resolve and i'll post the outcome of my efforts later. ps - on one forum a suggestion to read the card on a linux system as most virus are designed to interfere with windows - that might hold water with your &quot;the card works fine in the camera&quot; statement. regards
turns out my problem was resolvable simply by getting a new card reader. i agree though backing up is a necessity now considering companies who make memory storage use that as an excuse for their products to fail and not have any responsibility (i had to spend $250 to have best buy recover files off of a external hd.)
