i have a server (old pc i used) with a asus p4g8x deluxe motherboard and a geforce 6800 ultra (asus v9999) video card on it. the system uses liquid cooling. i decided to get the tower back up and running for various purposes, but that story aside, i have a problem. two to three drops of coolant leaked (which is fixed) and somehow managed to land on the agp card right at the agp slot. after not running for a large amount of time, these drops solidified (for some reason). recent reuse made it hot, and the contacts on the agp slot (about 3 of them from what i can tell) melted. this also caused burn damage on 2 of the contacts on the agp card itself. the agp card still works in another agp board. my concern is, will these two blackened marks (partially covering contacts) cause the contacts/agp slot of another board to overheat/melt? thanks, guys.... i've attached a i have a server (old pc i used) with a asus p4g8x deluxe motherboard and a geforce 6800 ultra (asus v9999) video card on it. the system uses liquid cooling. i decided to get the tower back up and running for various purposes, but that story aside, i have a problem. two to three drops of coolant leaked (which is fixed) and somehow managed to land on the agp card right at the agp slot. after not running for a large amount of time, these drops solidified (for some reason). recent reuse made it hot, and the contacts on the agp slot (about 3 of them from what i can tell) melted. this also caused burn damage on 2 of the contacts on the agp card itself. the agp card still works in another agp board. my concern is, will these two blackened marks (partially covering contacts) cause the contacts/agp slot of another board to overheat/melt? thanks, guys....  this shows the damage. a single contact is melted upwards. any information would be helpful. i'm primarily concerned that it might cause damage to a new motherboard.
i apologize about double pasting my statement- i don't know how i did that. that'll teach me to preview posts in the future.
you have to ***** the risk in re-using the agp slot and system in general. do you want to take a chance with known contact problem provided you did a fix? it really comes down, is it worth it to you. if yes, go forth knowing you're attempting a restart after your fix. -or- don't and try fresh with another mtrbd. and/or system. tada -----willy
i'm with willy on this -- if this machine were a client's/customer's, you'd not even hestitate to say it's time to scrap the main board. even if it were your employer's, your hourly wage is worth more than the board is. in the photo, it's obviously a mess. the card is reasonably nice, was once quite nice, in terms of computing power. but the mobo isn't. finding a replacement local could be tough, but if you gooogle or ebay, the price for an agp board isn't much more than what you'd pay for shipping it.
i've gotten a new motherboard, but i'm concerned the damage on the video card may damage the agp slot on the new board. any idea if that would occur? the agp card does obviously have issues. it runs stable (for whatever reason) in a board, i'm just concerned of possible overheating/further damage being caused by the card. the original damage was caused by the board.
maybe this is the excuse you need for new mtrbd. or old yet new tech such as pci-e or 16x plus whatever step-up on that mtrbd. for the money and effort, you'll be leaps ahead and you can try newer stuff. sometimes, its worth it to leave well enough alone and step forward. tada ------willy
the card in the pic looked pretty icky, i assume you cleaned it up and polished the contacts. if it's working, i'd go for it, if it were mine. seems like really the only risk (now you know it's working) is increased risk of corrosion. but if you eek out another year's service from that guy, it's a win, eh.
