the internal power cable in my external hard drive case is broken, and i have googled everywhere but can't find where to replace it. anyone have a link for me to a place i can buy it online?
you mentioed &quot;molex&quot; which is the brand of connector and usually refers to the inside power cable as well. if that's the case, get your hands on a &quot;y-cable&quot; and splice and dice as necessary. if it is something more different, look at these websites:    get the part if available or something that has the part in order to slice it all together. for a neat job, you may want &quot;shrink wrap&quot; to insulate and pretty the job up. tada -----willy
there has to be a place that has it ready made. i'm not handy with wire-cutters and shrink-wrapping and splicing and dicing. i don't want a y-splitter. i just want a short little cable with 4 pins on either end, both female. one end plugs into the external drive case on the inside circuit board, and the other end plugs into the power plug on the hard drive or dvd burner. that would be simple! where do i get such a cable?
you didn't mention diddy about who makes the product. so, in this case contact them(manufacturer) for any reference for a replacement cable. contact the orginal vendor and go from there for the &quot;exact&quot; cable replacement. if none of this helps or resolves the issue then you're stuck with my first reply, that's the way it goes, especially on special or non-big selling products. overall, going with what little you did mention, splicing and dicing is a quick resolution if the cable itself isn't so unique. tada -----willy
the external case was cheap and i got no customer service from the place i got it. the manufacturer shouldn't make a difference. the bottom line is, i thought this was just a simple computer cable that connects a hard drive to the pc power source... the smaller end connects to the pc and the larger end connects to the drive. these appear in every external case and also in the computer, so they must be standard. the y cables you mentioned wouldn't work, because all they are is extension cables if you want to add a second drive, and the single end is just a male power extension cable, it doesn't have the mini-4-pin end. does anyone else have any suggestions on where to find this cable?
i think it's at the nearby electronics store.
