hi i have 2 monitors, 1st one shut down mos ago, did'nt know why, the plug that goes into the video card the 1 of the pins looks broken, bigger the other pins, is this monitor shot, or can i go inside and replace that cord. the other monitor it started with the screen going half the size, now all i get is a line on the top, i can see just a little, i worked on the controls for days, and it won't come back to normal is this one shot also i hope not i hope you can give me good news, but otherwise lol, i'll take the bad as well thanks
it can be the monitor or video card but most likely is the monitor itself. the only way to rule out the card is with a known good monitor, however. if you are certain the problem is a broken pin on a connector, it is possible to replace the cord but it depends on your comfort level and related expertise with electronics. i have replaced a cord but few here would recommend it as you will be in the proximity of a very high electrical charge on the envelope of the crt. you will need to know about wire stripping, splicing and have good soldering skills. you will need to be resourceful in finding a proper replacement cord. an extension cable might work but may not be the best quality or properly shielded. you will need to know the pin outs (which pin/wire carries which signal) or have access to and know how to use an ohmmeter or dvm to make sure the rewiring is done correctly. it's not the same as replacing an ac cord by any means but can be done. i doubt this offers much encouragement but hope it answers some of your questions. good luck.
thanks, the one with the broken pin i'll give the monitor to someone they can fix it, i build my own pcs myself (i'm no tech lol) but never worked on a monitor won't either. i have several video cards and i tried all of them specially with the monitor that shows something on top of monitor screen, so is this one out of order also, it sounds like it, their both several years old, thanks again i've read up on working inside a monitor i won't go inside too risky thanks again
they cost too much to repair, and too dangerous to tinker with. if money is tight, then find a repair shop that sells used working monitors, or read the classified ads in local newspapers.
shows you what signal is on each pin. it's fair for me to write that wiring up a vga connector is beyond your average technician or they don't have the equipment or patience. not to mention the cost involved. if you examine the pin out carefully you may see that pin 15 may not exist on some monitors (some may write it's broken!) and some systems didn't use all the grounds (a bad idea in my playbook.) as to the screen that shrank to 1/2 the size an dnow is a solid horizontal line, that is a classic failure a tv technician will know about. but is not repairable by consumers. in closing, lethal and fatal voltages are inside such devices even after the unit has been unplugged for more than a year. don't open it. bob
get new monitors bro. they're most likely gone, and it's not worth it to repair them. you can buy new ones for the price you'd spend repairing them, and they may not repair them. search  or  for the best prices.
