i have a shared canon mp970 attached to my hp desk station that runs windows vista. i have an hp laptop that also runs vista. i have shared the printer and i can print fine when connected wirelessly. however, then i connect through the eithernet cable, it will not print. everything else seems to work fine except printing. i have tried several location, tried reistalling the printer etc and i feel i must have overlooked something simple. my router is a d-link dir-655 n(1. any help would be appreciated
i discovered my laptop got a different ip address on wifi versus ethernet. what a shame the windows networking couldn't sort all that out for us. bob
after your message i disabled my wireless and restarted the laptop so that i think it would assign a a new ip address. i was sure it was the solution but i still have the same issue. thanks for trying to help.
have shared the printer and i can print fine when connected wirelessly. think about this again! your machine moved to another ip address and those other pcs that had found the printer can't find it because it moved to another address. if you give it time the other machines might work but i found most don't want to wait for that. just get on the client after you settle on how you will be connecting that laptop and re-setup the printer share. bob
this may be over my head but my router is a dhcp server. so does this mean that i will have this problem every time that the computer that is connected to the printer is restarted and assigned a new ip address? thanks, alex
not over your head i see. it's why many hard assign any server a fixed ip. in your case this is not a good idea as you flipped from wifi to wired. and it is hard on most owners. the lesson here is simple. put your print server on a machine that won't be moving around. bob
its not moving around. the printer is connected to a desktop. however, system updates during the night, sometimes cause a restart of the unit plus i live in the boonies and lose service at least once a day. if i set my router to static ip, i guess it won't really effect the kids when they come down with their machines. i could set the printer up on bluetooth but i am concerned about the range. again thanks for moving me in the right direction
i read your first post and read it as if the printer was on the machine that changed from wifi to ethernet. sorry but that's me reading your post and it wasn't clear the printer was on a desktop. ok, if it still prints over wifi then the most likely is the old firewall issues. i don't help with firewall configurations with step by steps since there are dozens out there but look at allowing all your lan access to the server. i don't see the router ip as the issue here. bob
