i am looking for something under $80. i am also looking to have it completely wireless. i am trying to boost my signal from my bedroom to my living room, so obviously i dont want to have to wire a ethernet cable from on end of my house to another... do i need a new antenna? extender? acess point? there are so many options! please reccomend a specific product.
i only use things like this:
this is super expensive though. i am looking for something much cheaper... any ideas?
since the details about the setup are missing and that extenders and antennas are hit and miss, i got the feeling you didn't want to waste time on possible solutions and hear about a solid solution. that is, you may be upset if i noted an antenna or extender and it didn't work in your setup. bob
theres gotta be a product under $80 that i can buy that can do the trick for me...
what i discovered is antennas may help but without a make, model, and sometimes revision of the router i can't tell if it accepts an antenna or if the old reflector would help. also, repeaters are often hit and miss as you find some only work with the maker's models and then that can be untrue as well. you asked for specific models but without the details to work with i shared what i find to really nail this issue. bob
in my mac network which should be the same as any 802.11g or n network i have an old airport snow router that i use as a slave to a new airport extreme---you simply configure the routers with the configuration tool. you used to have to configure the remote node first as a slave endpoint (not a repeater as a repeater requires yet another end point router). so then you have your main router---then you have the extending router some 60 feet away, if you have an 802.11g rouiter simply upgrading to 802.11n likelyu doubles your range but i still use an old 802.11g to serve my bedroom pc as its upstairs from my office 802.11g router and its better to dedicate that router to then tandem switch my data over to the 802.11n than contend with my daughter's and wife at night...keeps the airwaves segmented better and isolates any issues i have to the extending routers. antennas? well the fios 802.11n routers they give you are mega powerfuil and i do not use them as i don't like them as they don't autoconfigure with my mac wifi net as well so they blast wifi in my house and i should disable them as its not good for other wifi or anyone sitting near it who is male and under 35 planning to have children. forget antennas. go with a newer better updated front end router--some come with antennas if you don't want to go macintosh but imho mac is the bomb--its now idiot proof but was not for 8 years until now...
airport extreme for front end node running 802.11n. buy and airport express minirouter that allows you to attach to your stereo and stream itunes vie a speaker wire, and extend your network as a network endpoint configured as an extending slave router to the airport extreme. it may cost you 150 bucks but this is guaranteed to work for years and super easy to configure. if you use pcs well, what can i say, get a cheap macbook for 899 as it will blow away any pc you have by miles in every category of work except word which you will have to buy from msft for 199 along with powerpoint, and excel if you must.
get real guys. im not gonna be a 900 computer just because i cant get signal in my living room. what kind of router extender should i get!?
i hinted that more details would be needed before i would offer any idea on an exact model of extender. you may be upset if i noted one that does not work with your router. bob
