hey, i was just recently browsing through tigerdirect when i came across this motherboard.  i looked at the specs and the picture and it seems to be everything i was looking for, for a new motherboard. it is sli certified, has 4 sata ports, 3 pci slots, socket 775 (compatible with my pentium d), core 2 duo ready, gigabit lan support and 4 dimm sockets that support up to a decent 667mhz ddr2 240 pin memory modules. what is the downside to this mobo? what am i overlooking? is this a reliable brand? what seperates this mobo from the $600 ones? is the chipset any good? if not will it effect graphics performance greatly? could you send me a link to some other mobos that are better, sli ready and a reasonable price? the site is tigerdirect.ca so the price is in can dollers.
anandtech.com, tomshardware.com, pcper.com, hothardware.com, xbitlabs.com, etc., you could also go to newegg.com to read 'actual buyer' reviews/comments of the product. vapcmd
i never trust ecs, jetway, epox, mach speed , pcchips etc mobos these mobos have no nice tech support and can't be used more than 2-3years because of the weak capicator. these mobo are expensive but really good even good at overclocking 1-evga 680i (16x16) 2-asus p5n32-sli (16x16) 3-asus p5n-sli (8x8) better choose a mobo which works sli in 16x mode. there are many other mobos in sli
the chipset on that mobo failed to meet the high expectations for an nforce chipset. the 610 was the first to be considered to be as good as or slightly better than the intel chipsets. look closely though, some of the intel chipsets have zero support for pata drives. although on a given mobo the mobo mfr may add a chip to provide one pata ide port [2 drives].
i think the $600 motherboards you see are actually combo deals. motherboard + cpu, motherboard + video card, etc.
thanks that little bit of info helped me understand the pricing of motherboards. just one other question, what exactly is the purpose of the little 1&quot; slot next to the pci express slot, i know that its a part of the pci-e slot but that is its purpose? i cant seem to find anything on a video card that would plug into the slot. not even the big monster video cards that take up two expansion slots.
