i'm using win xp sp2 and have just reformatted. but then it my computer will crash/freeze like every hour and becoming more frequent, until recently it will crash every time right after i startup windows when i turn on my comp. every time right before the crash/freeze occur, i would hear a slight clicking sound from my comp, sounded like its from the hd not the floppy. then after i restart, i will get the message disk boot failure, insert system disk and press enter. i then check the boot options on my bios and notice it isnt detecting my hd. but my floppy which is what i have set as a priority to boot from is detected. ive always had the floppy as the primary boot drive for the past few years and no problem until i recently reformatted. so now im just wondering what the problem is? is it my hd, my operating system or something else? thanks in advance.
did you try a new hard disk?
have had this same problem when installing a new motherboard in an e-machine. the ide cable was to short and was not in the motherboard all the way. if you moved your cables around inside your computer, it is more than likely the formentioned problem
ok dumb question, you dont happen to have a floppy inserted d you?? have you physically checked your hd? check the disc itself for scratches or indentations. and yes you will need to try another hard drive in your mobo. have yu tried a different port? have you set the jumpers correctly? spoon
unplug it then plug it into the motherboard again. check those jumper settings. if there not right it wont go. it should boot from the c: drive first not the floppy. might need a new drive. do the above first then find a spare and test to see if it's shot. if it beeps see the beep codes at the manufactures web site. these will tell you where the trouble is, maybe. this thread is untracked.
if it isn't installed already.
did you try a boot floppy and did it booted ok (you didn't mention)?
my iphone 3g hang at the apple icon and cant detect at all but the rest iphone can detect pls help me
this is a forum about pc hardware, not about iphones. so please repost in our iphones forum:  and be sure to make your problem clear. what you tell now definitely is unclear: - iphone 3g hangs at apple icon - can't detect at all - the rest iphone can detect did you already go back to the shop where you bought it for warranty? or are you asking here first? kees
ty so much i done it already just need to plug in the cable and use the redsnow way to make the cable detect ty guys
