hi all! just upgraded to a new 2.1 setup: klipsch rf-82s pa-120 sub marantz sr7005 marantz is 301 wireless ipod dock i have converted most of my cds into apple lossless on itunes. needless to say, these files are massive and i can't play them off my ipods. i am considering buying a 1tb media drive (with hdmi out), transfer my lossless files on it and connect to my receiver. the worries i have are a) what media drives actually play apple lossless and b) what media drive has the best ui to organize the music into playlists etc. i hope to take my comp out of the equation (its not near my 2.1 setup) and just play off the avr and tv. i have considered an apple tv + external hard drive solution but will still have to use itunes of my comp to use that setup. alternately, i could use airport express with my itunes/external hard drive but this too does not remove the comp from the setup. also, just wondering whether there would potentially be any loss in quality in streaming music through airport express. does an hdmi out media drive ensure better sound quality? i am already using the marantz is 301 dock which is linked to my receiver through analog audio and transmits via bluetooth. any advice would be hugely appreciated. many thanks!
i'm going with no. that's just one link in the quality chain. your choice on the encoding but given the usual headphones and speakers i can't tell the difference from lossless to hi-rate mp3. maybe you don't have to do much other than re-test your encoding method? the only assurance of such quality is when you think it's quality meets your standard. hdmi by itself is not enough. bob
thank you bob. when you say 're test your encoding method' do you mean consider switching from apple lossless to flac? still, how would i go about storing these files and playing them from an external source if taking the comp/itunes out?
you could try that and see what you think. and about your question of storing files: files are files. you store them on whatever place you wish. there is nothing special about these files. copy them where you want them. bob
