we have a d-link wireless 11n router. we use it very successfully with an acer win7 wireless 11n laptop, and we now have a 2wire brand 11b wireless ethernet adapter (to connect a bluray player to the network, but not yet installed). will the addition of the 11b device slow down the speed of the separate 11n connection. ...just a general question about mixing 11x devices on an 11n router. if i have to get model numbers i can do so. (actually, this question is for a neighbor.)
and not to repeat why let's skip to the cheapest possible solution. read post 18 (and 19?) of this forum's sticky. bob
i looked in the &quot;sticky&quot; thread(s) and i did not see a reference in the link in reply 18(19) about mixing wireless protocols on the same network. sorry to be so ignorant. but i think your simple &quot;yes&quot; tells me what i need to know (but did want to hear). thanks very much for your response!
was about how to use a router as a wap (see  ) by using any old router as a wap for the 802.11b traffic we not only extend/expand our wifi traffic capability but keep the 802.11g/n traffic from getting hit with the slowdown. it's my cheap fix. bob
i think you are advising that i should find another wireless router (such as an 11b) and chain it to my dsl via the existing 11n wireless router. that is, the new wireless router will be wired via a short ethernet cable to an ethernet port on the existing 11n router, which is still wired via ethernet cable to the dsl. the result, if i can configure it all right, would be 2 wireless signal choices in the home, one 11n and another 11b (if the new router is 11b) and then i could connect the wireless 11b bridge to the 11b signal, and leave the 11n laptop connected to the 11n router. that sounds like a great suggestion! ...but i fear it might be more complex than my capabilities (or time to do it). i know nothing about ip and mac data but something tells me i would need to learn about that before doing such as that. is it possible that it might work in a plug-and-play way? ...that is, if i plug the new router into the exisitng 11n router, will the ip addresses come out ok by default? thanks so much for the response, though. if we use that method i will advise how it came out.
is in this forum's sticky at posts 18, 19. to save members from repeating the answers we put them into the sticky.
here is a link to the &quot;sticky&quot; that r. is referring to. see post 19 on page 2 (18 is still not working)...  also, here is another thread on the same subject (i'll add a link to this thread as a cross-ref)...
