does anyone know of a cable/hub that converts firewire to usb? i bought the new aluminum macbook thinking i was done with ieee 1394, but as luck would have it i need to plug in a friends camcorder and its not compatible. the camcorder is a canon gl2.
there are hardly any converters or cables that exist to do what you are asking for. firewire and usb are two completely different technologies. i'd suggest either transferring the video to a firewire-bearing computer or to a different camera that has usb connectivity. according to the canon site , this camera can use minidv tapes and/or sd cards, right? if you're using sd cards, there are multiple devices out there with sd and usb connections, like some digital cameras, etc. if you are using tapes, which i am going to guess you are, i'm sure you could find some sort of minidv recorder that has usb. should be some out there. however, i feel the best solution would be to import the video onto another computer and store the file on a dvd or an external hard drive. whatever works best for you. good luck. -bmf
a firewire to usb adapter/converter is not available. you will some advertised, for a healthy price, but they usually do not work well. of course, i may have opened the flood gates with that statement. p
has anyone else tried editing with their 13&quot; macbook and realized it has no firewire capability??? is there no solution to this problem when your camcorder only has firewire output? thanks.
if your macbook lacks a firewire port and your camera requires one, you'll have to find another solution to connect the two. if the camera accepts memory cards or can use an adapter of its own to connect via usb, i'd try that, but given that it uses firewire, chances sound slim to me. i'd guess then that the easiest thing you could do is switch cameras, if possible. -bmf
depending on which model you purchased there may be a few options. if you have a 13', 15' or 17' macbook pro you have firewire 800. the adapters for a firewire 800 to firewire 400 i beelive, are more reliable. the 17' model also has an express slot. you can buy express cards that provide firewire 400 ports.
the op knows what firewire is, he knows what it looks like. he knows he does not have it on his macbook he knew that when he purchased it. p
sonnet makes a external, 2-port firewire 400 and 1-port usb 2.0, expresscard/34 that will fit in your expresscard slot:  that ought to get you where you want to go.
