hi here is my current setup. motherboard gigabyte 990fxa-d3 cpu amd phenom x6 1045t graphics his radeon hd 6790 x2 in crossfirex ram 16gb gskill cheap value ram. psu coolermaster 550w os win 7 ultimate so i baught a new motherboard the other day along with another 6790 at a really good price. and for the last couple of days all sorts of strange things are happening. sometimes the computer will freeze while windows is loading, at times the keyboard will turn off, when i put my computer to sleep it will take itself out of sleep straight away and other times it will just not turn back on at all. and to top it off i turned it on earlier today and it wouldnt even post. so only after taking one graphics card and all but one ram stick it decides to work again. im really confused on what it could be. i was thinking it may be the psu but it is reasonably new and it seems to work again after re inserting the extra ram and psu. can anyone please shed some light on what they think the problem could be.
says you need 600 watts if you now have two display cards. there's also amperes to measure. i'd also wonder if you overclock. if so, run it stock and see what happens...but after you correct the psu issue.
who sets it up and fixes this one? i wonder if there is something basically wrong with the machine. that is, all nice parts but i could not figure out if said windows was a fresh install or some transplant. transplants usually go horribly wrong. bob ps. my thought on the power supply is, seems small. hope it's a single rail model.
yeah i bult the system myself. i was thinking the same thing although the sysytem seems to be running smoothly over the past couple of days. all i have been really doing is basic websurfing and watching movies which doesnt really put much load on the psu. i might add that it is not overclocked at all. everything is running on factory settings. windows was a fresh install. so the problem doesnt lie there. i think stephen is right about the psu. so i guess ill just get a new one and then put it through its paces and see how i go. i was thinking of a 750w antec-earth they are supose to be real good on power consumption.
when you installed the drivers, let's hope you installed the right variety for the win7 you did install as 32 or 64-bit type. while some 32-bit maybe accepted or seem so, these in turn cause issues when they're pushed or possibility the drivers aren't too keen as really ready. so review all that, don't fall what was available on the os install alone, the drivers for the mtrbd. maybe lacking for your needs, so a visit to the mtrbd. website for what you need. also, in some cases if you're dragging some old part into the mix, install the drivers from windows driver website, when prompted allow it to install from the www. that one area i would check into as it maybe part of the overall siuues besides apsu one tada -----willy
i have just joined cnet trying to get some clarity on similar weird things happening to now 6 computers bought new all set up and two second hand. my technical understanding is very limited. i have given up on getting techs help though. they usually can't understand what is happening with my gear, and my internet connections, and online services. for example computers often wont start, pressing the button does nothing. i took one to a tech and he handed it back a few days later said there was nothing wrong with it, started straight away for him. he checked it thoroughly and could find nothing wrong and it kept starting for me after that, but other things then happened to that one. three others have done the same not starting thing, two intermittently. there may be a simple explanation for your problems, but my conclusion with mine is that the computers are being sabotaged remotely. i could give many more examples and reasons i have come to this conclusion and also the conclusion that some protection against em beams and pulses is required. i have had similar experiences with tvs and radios. only one such device has not had weird things happening with it and that is a small sony radio and guess what it was specifically built by a public speaker who had such a protective device put in it as he was having problems of interference with its use providing translations to members of his audience.
