hi folks, i just wanted to share this email (below) that i received from a cnet member in regards to backing up your data. while many of you may religiously backup your data locally on a physical external hard drive, dvds, flash drive, etc... if your data is important to you, in addition to your physical backup, do consider separate venues for storing your data--whether it is online storage service or having it kept at a completely different location. because in catastrophic event like japan's recent earthquake and tsunami, your physical backup isn't going to do much good if it is physically destroyed. so please keep this in mind and always be prepared for the worst case scenario. be safe out there! and thank you martha for sharing and caring enough to send us all a reminder! cheers! -lee here is martha's email: with the recent event in japan, folks along the coast of oregon had some anxious moments a week ago after the japan earthquake. visiting with one of these coastal residents, an accountant with payroll &amp; tax clients, when ask'd about backups said she &quot;backed up&quot; every day but did not have remote or cloud backups. seems like this is the golden opportunity to emphasize that backup means storing data in a separate venue. when i did data management &amp; programming in the late 1980s two of us took home every night a couple of floppy disks (!!) that had both app &amp; data. this came in handy when the server failed. the golden rule is backup, backup, backup. the first is local (raid, etc.) backup; the second is physical but stored at a remote location; the third is cloud. i'll bet now that cloud computing is going to be look'd at much more favorably. it is a good thing. email from martha b.
isn't the &quot;cloud&quot; a server or servers somewhere? is it different from kodakgallery where i have saved the thousands of old slides i scanned? where are carbonite's servers? it is not magic; they must be somewhere physical, and probably on the san andreas fault. i do remember having two weeks of backup tapes at work and rotating one at home at first. i just had to remember what week i was in.
i do regular backups, but not to my hard drive or extrenal drive etc. while it might be more time consuming, i prefer to burn all of my important files, documents, and program files etc to dvd. that way, if my system ever crashes or if i have a major problem, all i have to do when things return to normal is copy the files i need to my new hard drive. some people might not consider this as a proper backup, but it works for me.
...just to back up your data. every once in a while, you need to attempt to restore your data too. this need not disrupt your existing it - in a real disaster that would be a molten heap or underwater, so there's no point trying to restore to that.
when you backup to an online &quot;cloud&quot; server, you are actually backing up to multiple servers. most online companies run anywhere from 3 to 6 separate geographical locations for their server hubs that are constantly talking to each to sync the data on each server. this doesn't just allow the data to be secured against physical distruction, but against data corruption because each set of data is compared to another set of data, which includes copy of the previous generation of the data. it's a simple redundancy system, much like have two separate people each taking a copy of the date home with them each night. if you're looking into online data backup and storage, ask where each backup server is located, and what redundancy and physical protections they have in place, and pick the one you like the best.
your idea of backing up just to dvd's might be fine now, but there are numerous things that can happen to the dvd's and you have to remember and be ready for that. for example what would you do if you backed up your data on your dvd's and your house caught fire, your pc was destroyed in the blaze, and the dvd's become molten coasters. in this situation you would have lost all your data, which is why your backup needs to be stored away from the original, and even better if it is stored in more than one place. i store my important documents in numerous places, i have it on my hard drive, online (through gmail) and on my phone. in addition to this gmail also do additional backups as has been discovered recently when a gmail software bug deleted a lot of people's e-mails. gmail were able to retrieve peoples e-mails from tape backups that they'd made. ok it might have taken the person longer to retrieve the data than normal, but the data was still safe. in my case if my pc was to fail, i've still got the data either on my phone or on gmail, if gmail was to fail they've got my data on backup tapes, and no doubt they also keep copies on numerous servers around the world as well, as well as on my phone or pc, and if my phone fails, or gets lost or stolen my data is still on my pc and gmail. one really useful feature that most people overlook on their phone is the synchronization option. if you have a smartphone you should have a sync option (i have a htc hd2 windows mobile 6.5 phone with activesync which works with google), this can help you with your backups as you can set it to automatically sync most of your data with something else, either gmail or your local pc or both. i have it set up to store anything i add to the phone to gmail the minute i add it to the phone, that way if anything happens to my phone i can still access the data on my phone through my google account. it then also syncs with my pc when i get back home. the only issue with this is data costs, however i'm on giffgaff and for 10 a month i get unlimited data usage through my phone so it's not an issue for me.
i have considered an online back up option, but i didn't want all my private info out there somewhere for others with an inside access to get to.
i, too, am concerned about my private stuff being out there, but it already is. every bank account and other financial things are accessible online, whether or not i am the one looking at it. i use online everything (bills, statements) because i figure i am the one who has to protect them with passwords. those passwords, btw, are hand written, crossed out and rewritten and hidden so well i sometimes cannot find them. i try not to let my machines keep track of them. but i do worry. also, if there is a tsunami, not being a business, data is the last thing i will be worrying about.
not intending to be personal here, but suggesting that my dvd backups might get destroyed if a tsunami hit is a bit over the top isn't it? sure, what happened in japan recently was a terrible thing, but they honestly don't happen all that often, and as someone else has already said, if a tsunami did hit then the safety of my data would be tha last thing on my mind. secondly, my pc is just that, a personal computer, so i don't have to worry about business records being lost. even if i was running a business, i wouldn't use an online service for storing my backups, because again as others have mentioned, i wouldn't want my private information available to anyone out there who knows how to access (legally or illegally) such a system. as far as smart phones are concerned, i don't have one, i don't need one and i don't want one. call me old fashioned if you like, but i only use my mobile for phone calls, text messages and taking the very occasional photo if i don't have any of my cameras with me. i don't need instant access to emails and/or the internet or any of the other myriad of services available via a smart phone. if i'm away from home and an important email comes in or someone suggests that i look at this or that on the internet asap, then it can wait until i get home. finally, i'm a realist, although i don't care if you call me a fatalist. if any kind of disaster, natural or otherwise is going to strike my home, then it's going to happen anyway and there's nothing i can do to prevent it. if something like that does happen though, and the worst thing that results is that my computer (including my dvd backups) and other personal belongings are damaged or destroyed, then it won't be the end of the world for me because i'll still be alive and material things can always be replaced. sh*t happens everyday, but i'm not going to sit around worrying about all of the &quot;what ifs&quot;.
yes, you will be glad you're alive, but when you start to try to put your life back together, you will probably wish you had done some off-site backups, especially for those things that can't be re-created, like family photos and financial data.
i am very concerned now about my data & phone calls could all be scanned as they travel through the ether & space via satellite. cloud computing & storage is a fine way for our private data to be read enroute to storage & the fact of it being stored in multiple places gives data mining companies even greater scope to read our private stuff. that would apply exponecially if the storage company provided the service free. they have to make money on it somehow! one of my phone numbers is a 'private number' phone number which i only give to certain people but out of the blue recently i started getting phone sellers ringing me on it. so vicious was the campaign to get me to answer the call, my phone would ring 17 times in a row! i knew who was calling because i use caller id on that number. i finally put the phone on silent so as not to hear the damned thing! x:( my suspicion is that the cloud storage company that handles one of my internet & email isps (a subscription service) mined the number out of an email i sent to someone. this to me is the last straw! i have previously been suspicious of data being mined out of emails. that is seperate to the email address harvesters that troll the free email sites checking for emails filled with several generations of email addresses on uncleaned joke mail. they sell all those addresses to mailing list buyers for spam production. if recipient's addresses can be mined that easily when not bcc'd, how easy is it for all sorts of data to be mined out of back-ups being sent to the clouds????? :-[
when i backup to the cloud, i use high quality encryption and i make sure the data is encrypted with my password and on my machines before they leave the machine. if you do this, then the concerns about privacy are significantly reduced.
depending on your geographical location, a tsunami might be a far cry. however, i am told that dvd's (as do other media) tend to break down after time deteriorating their ability store and access data. as suggested in the previous post, data that may seem of little worth today could cause undue anxiety after some catastrophe or just regular loss of data at a later date.
there are backup solutions available that could save your data from a nuclear holocaust, but they cost a fortune. or, you can use faith-based backups for free. the determining factor should be &quot;what is my data worth?&quot;. maybe you only use your computer for web-surfing and personal email, and you don't have anything worth saving on it. then it isn't worth backing it up. maybe you have all of your photos on it. definitely worth the time and money to at least burn a couple of dvds once in a while and store them at some friend's and relatives houses. maybe you have a thousand hours worth of work on it. what's that worth to you? backups are like taking care of anything valuable, the more that it's worth, the more you should invest in protecting it.
cloud computing is basically using someone else's services for allowance for storage short-coming and/or apps.. this is the popular term now, because most netbooks don't have sufficent or rather large off book storage other than usb based. understand, the 1st netbooks didn't have any int. storage at all or were very limited. so anyone running older netbooks looked elsewhere. at the same time costs were a factor as well. this may not be as costly and the alternatives available now but it does still exist. cloud computing has expanded as well, so i leave it at that. yes, back-ups are important as the user deems them. unfortunately that's a lesson learned too late. -----willy
a very concise conclusion to the matter in my estimation.
cloud technology is one of the most advanced and productive advancement for the home and business users. it helps a lot of businesses and personal users to store / host their data on safe cloud. yes, data backups are very important aspect and one should keep it in mind while using and storing their data on cloud servers. it is very easy to store your important data on cloud server through cloud storage / online backup services. yes, backups are very important in case of cloud outages and disaster!
