given all the hoopla about wifi problems and gps problems and availability problems and the fact that i am not a gamer nor will i watch movies on it would i be happy with the old transformer vs the prime? i am one that likes the latest tech but not a show stopper. is the above listed issues really a big deal or are they being blown out of proportion? thanks!!
here's the gps &quot;problems&quot; i've read. both are limitations of gps technology but new to gps users may not know about the limitation and write these are glaring defects. 1. on power up, can take many minutes to lock onto satellites. 2. doesn't work indoors or in parking garages. is that the problems? bob
i don't know what the gps problems are i don't have one. i read the metal case is limiting the range of both the gps and wifi. my question is , is this a real concern that makes this tablet less desirable than others.
because i know the gps issues. something about working with gps tracking helps me here but as to the wifi that's odd too. i found no two devices to give the same range. some would call that a defect. again, i'm back to writing about limitation or differences. the biggest problem i see folk encounter is when they try to replace their laptop with an android or other pad. they learn first hand what's up. bob
not trying to replace a laptop. just trying to buy a really good tablet. i think i hear you saying the prime is the way to go..??..
just like a pc as we increase the cpu and more, what more does angry birds need to run? what apps did you run before that you need more oomph? and right around the corner is windows 8 and bluestacks. bob
thanks for your help!!!
as we passed some ghz and cores, you have to ask what apps are in need of that quad core tablet. it is very nice but my advice is to wait till the dust settles from ces. bob
as we look six months to a year into the future don't you think the quad core will trigger some pretty cool stuff?
why overpay for this today?
so , at the same price as an ipad2 you feel it is too high now? you are right it will probably come down at least some.
you never revealed the use for this pad. i'm watching folk rush in and learn the lessons the hard way about apps and more. if you are jazzed about all this, don't buy until you can get past the jazz. as to your comment about if this will bring out this or that, let me comment about ice cream. some folk are waiting for that but developers i know won't use its new features because most folk are not that yet. they seem to be in agreement that in 6 months or a year they might have an ice cream feature app. bob
i will use it to compose docs,spreadsheets etc for work, check email, share pictures, surf web and use some basic apps at first. it will be my first tablet but i also want it to be worthy of time from a techno point of view. don't want to be buying or wanting to buy another one in -6- months. prime is priced the same as the ipad2. i did not mention the ipad.
please do yourself a favor and try to do what you wrote on any android tablet today. that use is exactly what i'm finding folk upset about. bob
a couple reasons i and looking strong at asus transformers(both old and prime) is the dock and polaris software.
when they think they are going to produce word and such documents this is where folk are getting upset. my advice is to not buy this system for that use today. or if you do, don't spend so much you don't have the bucks for a laptop. bob
i have a laptop and polaris is compatible with microsoft office..the tablet will not be used as my only office tool. will use it that way mainly when i'm away from home/office.
be sure you can get your money back. at nearly 500 bucks (over?) you are inching towards ultrabook prices.
thanks for all your advice.....
