hello, i am looking to buy a new computer, and i saw this one deal at best buy, i was just wondering if you guys think its a good deal.  if the link doesnt work, here are the features. features * amd phenom x4 9500 quad-core processor with true multicore processing, direct connect architecture, 6gb ddr2 sdram and 640gb hard drive * double-layer dvdrw/cd-rw drive with lightscribe labeling, nvidia geforce 6150 se graphics, 15-in-1 media reader and windows vista home premium with sp1 * 21.6&quot; widescreen lcd monitor with brightview technology, ultrafast 5 ms response time, 1000:1 contrast ratio and built-in speakers; hdmi and vga inputs; pedestal stand with tilt and keyboard parking space, or wall-mountable (kit not included) * compact canon pixma photo printer with precision ink to create borderless prints up to 8&quot; x 10&quot; * trend micro antivirus plus antispyware 2009 to protect your computer against internet threats; provides real-time protection by automatically checking instant messaging and e-mail attachments; computer scanning and proactive intrusion blocking * logitech x-240 2.1 speaker system with 2 satellite speakers and down-firing subwoofer; includes a stowaway cradle for charging and syncing with your ipod, microsoft zune or other compatible mp3 player; headphone jack for private listening * dynex wireless mouse with precise 1000 dpi optical technology, 5 programmable buttons, tilt wheel and forward-back buttons for easy web browsing; comfortbead mouse wrist rest that contours to support your wrist during long sessions at the computer * dynex surge protector with 8 total outlets, including 4 widely spaced for transformers, with 1800 joules of protection thanks
the dynex stuff is just best buy's label and gear. nothing to get excited about. i like 2 or more cores in today's machines. but you didn't tell what this machine would be used for. let's see if a gamer would like it?  the video is &quot;integrated on motherboard (see motherboard and chipset)&quot; and is the fair performer for visa aero geforce 6150se. - this is not a gaming machine. it's a nice machine for most things, just not ready to play today's high end games. bob
yea, it will be used for gaming mostly. i am trying to save money on it, and then upgrade it. do you have any thoughts on a good gaming pc that is reasonable?
as you are getting vista 64, i'll write that you have to check if your games, printers and such are supported by that.  is the motherboard. yes it has a pcie x16 slot. let's find the power supply rating. it's a 300 watt psu so if you go too far out you'll have to replace that. this leads me to suggest the lower power video cards from this list -&gt;  &quot;the radeon hd 4670 slaps previous generation high-end performance squarely in the jaw of mid-range pricing. with 320 shader processors, this card means business, and will provide awesome 1600x1200 gaming. compared to the 9600 gso, its main advantage is a low power requirement. it doesnt need an external power cable, which for some upgraders is a really important feature.&quot; unless you want to change the psu, i'd shop this card. bob
just my humble opinion... if you want to game, and you want to upgrade, save the time and the money and go buy what you want now. i just built a 9850be quad on asus for under $1000 (already had dual monitors), overclocked a little and it screams. not saying your wrong, just something to consider. shop parts at tom's or newegg... always good deals.
