i'm not really a computer person but my grandmother recently asked me to help her pick out a new computer. i really want to make sure she gets something that will suit her needs and not give her any trouble. here's what is important for it to have: reliability. good customer support. ability to read digital camera media cards. sufficient speed to watch videos online. sufficient memory for her pictures (she doesn't take a ton of them, though, so i imagine 320gb would be enough). cd/dvd burner. windows 7. small size tower would be nice. what's not important: multimedia capabilities: she doesn't even have an hd tv in the house. gaming capabilities. blu ray. upgrade-ability. the most important thing is that it will be reliable. she knows nothing about computers and i live a ways away so she always has to pay someone to look at her computer when something goes wrong. she would also like to keep the price under 500$, but at or under 400$ would be better (tower only). many thanks!
if i were in the marker for a new desktop and ws not going to build one myself, i would probabally buy an asus brand from a reliability standpoint. whatever you do, stay away from anyting hp or compaq. their hardware reliability is absolutely horrible. the specs may compare, but is the quality of the parts that matter.
there are quite a few options. maybe get a slim tower with monitor deal at one of the big-box retailers. you might consider finding a desktop someone doesn't need and loading a linux distro, it should suit her needs and may be less complicated than windows. i don't think brands matter too much for desktops. for laptops i would be more leary of reliability because parts aren't easy to replace. the only 2 parts that may differ by who made your motherboard is the motherboard and power supply. almost all the companies will have a generic psu (so no difference). all companies will probably use a custom motherboard too. as for the quality of the motherboard being less than that you can get if you build yourself, yes its true. but i think they're on par with the other value motherboards you can buy albeit with a custom bios and less features. i think you'll find most motherboards use the same materials and the markup on boards are for enthusiasts who are willing to pay a premium for gimmicks and the latest tech. the profit margins for higher end stuff are a lot larger than for the value/mainstream market, but that does not mean if it costs more it'll be more reliable.
i read these forums regularly and don't see an extraordinary number of complaints or failures on hp machines....regardless of platform. most of what i read here is people writing about upgrading the video card or ram in their hps. so what is your basis for saying ...'their hardware reliability is absolutely horrible.' ? how many hps have you had ? aren't a fair number of the hp motherboards made by asus ? vapcmd
today your consumer machines are five year designs. once you get over that you understand you need to think of this as rent and act accordingly as well as maintain backups of what you can't lose. to go beyond 5 years we'll have to implement a maintenance system that the maker cycles parts out as they approach the usual mtbf hours. sadly this means the cost tends to go up about 10x of what you could spend with a normal replace a machine when it breaks cycle. bob
