i have a question about cat 3 cable. is it possible to have cat 3 cable run at 100mb? my company currently has cat 3 cable in some of our buildings at the moment ( there is cat 5e in most of the other buildings). if it is possible, how stable is it? and over what distance is it capable of substaining (if possible that is) 100mb. my company does plan to sometime in the future to replace the cat 3 cable with either cat 5e or cat 6, but for right now, we are trying to determine whether we can run the cat 3 at cat 5 speeds. thanks for any information you can provide.
at my site, this page  it relates directly to what you are asking although the information is for voice band frequencies. power, loss, and capacitance is the same in all twisted wire environments. you might get high speeds on short runs. but routing, external interference, gauge of the wire, etc. affect performance. try it on short runs. if you have problems, repull the wire.
in an office i just repaired, the owner was fretting over the cost of wire and trying to run on an old dumb network hub. it took a week of me (elapsed time, not time face to face) for it to sink in that 50 people at the office going down for an hour was costing far more than the cable and hub in question. we did keep most runs, but the old dumb hub was history. we installed a new switching hub and found what may have been the causes of the entire office going down. it was a cable that was old, but un-marked so we didn't know what it was and a few machines with failing network cards. you have to ask if risking downtime is worth it. bob ps. their network was crashing daily. now it doesn't.
is that true even if the router and switches we are using are 1000 mb (gig switches) capability? the routers and switches we are using are from foundry (bigiron 8000 and big iron 4000) and hp procurves. i think the procurves are only 10/100 mb capable if i'm not mistaken. thanks for any info you can provide.
my response is still true for the place of issue. your choice on the matter. info? simple. you will, as noted in the responses be in unsupported territory and it's your choice to chance it working one minute and not the next. i don't like unreliable things. bob
ok, that's really all i needed to know on the matter. it sounds like it would be too unreliable to even try. thank you for your time. i will now consider this subject closed.
per comptia's n+ certification exam, cat3 can carry up to 10 mbps. that's why everyone has been switching to cat5. so, i would say no, it's not possible.
