earlier tonight it was raining by my house so i turned off my pc after there was a short power outage. a few minutes ago my dad came over to use and turned it on and it wouldn't work. the boot screen showed up and it asked me if i wanted to start up the desktop normally or in safe mode. thinking nothing was wrong, i chose normal and then to my surprise, after the boot screen showed up, the monitor went blank. i then tried turning it off by pressing the power button, but it wouldn't so i had to unplug the power from the back. i started it over and started it in safe mode which worked. i'm going to try reinstalling windows, but before i do that i wanted advice from you guys. as for system info, i've got a gateway 504gr with winxp home edition with integrated gfx (for those who think it might be my gfx card). please help!
all right guys, i managed to &quot;fix&quot; it. while in safe mode i just restored it to a time before the storm (7pm). i still would like to know what might have caused my pc to act up like this though.
...somewhere, and indicated by when the computer did work. a rule of thumb is : if the computer works in &quot;safe mode&quot; and not in &quot;normal&quot;, you have corrupted drivers, or missing files. &quot;safe mode&quot; loads a minimum of these to get basic functionality going, to help you return the system to working order. if &quot;normal&quot; mode fails when you've had a power cut, your pc has almost certainly lost a driver. why? well powering off, whether by accident or otherwise isn't an instant usually an instant death to hardware. computers reset and operating systems crash all the time, without worry, so a power outage isn't any more dangerous. however, an immediate power loss can corrupt a system file or driver. because these are loaded and in use, they are sometimes in a continual state of flux, and shutting down unduly springs a special surprise on them! they are then effectively corrupted as they weren't returned to a default ready status by a correct shut down sequence. this is a simplistic explanation, and it doesn't happen, but when it does...safe mode's always the first route to recovery. gb.
