hello people, how are you? i have adsl broadband connection on my company. i would like to have access to this adsl connection from a nearby ranch, and if possible to its telephony line, since i dont have phone access on this ranch. the company is 15 meters (50 foot) lower (altitude) than the ranch, and the distance between the company and the ranch are 550 meters (0,342 miles or 1.804,462 foot) forthright (see satellite image below). we could consider 600 meters (0,373miles or 1.968,504 foot) to have no problems in range. what can i do to solve the problem? see the satellite image here . if you have problems viewing, please copy and paste the link below in your browser, or right click it and select save destination as and save the image to your computer.  mark 1 - company mark 2 - ranch if you still can access the satellite image, just use this one:  thank you for helping!
but to span the last mile you'll need some pricey gear and line of sight if you are expecting it to work all the time. start with this usual 1 mile solution -&gt;  as to telephony, you can use a cell phone. bob
are you saying that the connection is already on property you own but paid for by the company you work for or is it your company's location? it would seem to me that such would first require permission to do so. secondly, your adsl is a line that terminates at a modem that will have an ip address. you cannot connect another on to that same line. as well, the distance from your location to the ranch is only one part of the full equation as the total distance from the phone company's central office to the ranch needs to be considered. you can't just splice in wiring to an existing location and run it to another in this manner. the adsl supplied at your location will need filtering for the phone service so to duplicate this entire setup at the ranch doesn't seem feasible. you might check to see if adsl is possible to the ranch by normal methods first.
the html link here.
thank you bob, and yes, i need it working all the time. about mobile phones, its expensive the minute here in brazil, around us$ 0,70, so i would like to access the company phone line. the link you gave us is another post, which the needs ill use under this connection, so the thing is somehow sensitive. thank you too steven. the company i showed there is mine, i actually dont need any internet there in that company, i just have it there for nothing until now. and now i upgraded my bandwidth and i would like to distribute the 10mb adsl band through a wireless signal to my ranch. thats because i am going to spend most of my time there and run a business from there. the telephony company doesnt support my ranch with adsl yet and as exposed by bob, im going to run this below with the solution we are talking about.  or this  again, thank you all for helping im very happy with you!!!
voip over wifi at a mile is dead. forget about it. the latency is bad enough but if you research those that do long distance wifi almost all the success is 802.11b speed with many trick and just a light rain and your link goes dead. this is not a solution for any business. bob
that is bad... is there something that can be done about it? i may spend some money to get things done. i am supposed to afford up to us$ 1000,00 over this connection needs, not including the voip system, modem and wireless router. can you help, please? thank you for your response...
but all use line of sight rf, laser or such gear and blow past your 1k budget. you can find the cheap diy solutions so i won't duplicate those here. remember that any business would never try to live over such a connection. maybe some hobbyist would. bob
i poorly explained things here, sorry. this city you see on satellite image is arapongas. i have a small plastic recycle industry and a ranch on this city, those ones you see on image. i'm living on maring, but i am going to move to arapongas on that ranch, it is 70 kilometers (43 miles) from maring. and here in maring i run a service company and do you remember that voip system needs (link above)? pretty good. that system is for the maring's company, and not for this one in arapongas. i'm going to control maring's company call center from an office that i settled in arapongas, and this office is located beside the plastic recycle industry. so the sensitive part of the voip system will not run from a 1 mile wifi , but will run locally inside that office. i just want to have access to this system from my ranch so i don't need to make expensive calls from a mobile phone. and of course, have access to this internet connection. is it better explaied now? so what can we do? again, thank you, thank you all!
your links are dead and you are outside the bounds of using wifi gear you buy at the store so the solutions noted so far are just hobby solutions and not suitable for anyone that needs it to work 24x7. hope this is clear now. bob
