i have a lan with windows 2000 server and windows 2000 xp and windows 2000 professional workstations. i am not able to browse the network from my network places to pick shared items. suprisingly, i am able to ping all machines in the network, internet connection sharing is working perfectly and emails as well. any help?
without knowing the physical layout of your lan. assuming from your statement that ics is being used, it's likely file sharing has been turned off. also check your workgroup names and disable any firewalls until the network is up and running.
this may be just a helluva coincidence, but it's happening, from one day to the next, on my home net and on the office net. it started happening after i installed the latest win and ie security updates from microsoft. i can't browse the network (&quot;network unavailable&quot; warning) - yet the find command locates any computer on the net and grants access, as does the cd\\&lt;computername&gt; command. also, any previous links in network neighborhood work. ics works fine. in other words, the networks seem to be working perfectly - i just can't browse them - and yesterday, they were browsing normally. the nets are via ethernet cards, mixed w98, me, xp i'm curious if anyone else is noticing this, because i suspect a ms bug.
it happened to me in the last two days.. and have not resolved it yet. i have several xp pro-sp1, xp pro-sp2, win me, win 98se, connected via ethernet lan, adsl modem/router + a couple of switches... (latest ms updates are not installed in all xps) -- that is the reason why i said its not ms updates is the culprit.-- everything works normally, then suddenly i can not browse the workgroup.. just like you described... '(network unavailable warning - yet the find command locates any computer on the net and grants access, as does the cd\\&lt;computername&gt; command.)' also printing via network is working normally. -- so its not 'file and printer sharing has been turn off too -- i would also like to know, if anyone know what is happening and how to solve the problem. thank you
in answer to your question... yes. i have the same problem. last night all was well. today i could not acces my network. i can get email over the network (via cable modem). we have wireless (4) and wired - rj45 cat5e/6 (6) systmes in our network. has worked fine for years. everyone has a version of xp (pro, home, media. i can use any previous links in network neighborhood work. i can't even see my own shared drive on my computer. if i use a previous link i can send files and run programs over the network. if i try to click through on the same computer (my network places-&gt; entire network-&gt; microsoft windows network-&gt; workgroup name) it says network unavailable. bull, i just used it through my prior link. i tried to restore my system to a prior date but it did not fix the problem. if anyone knows what to do i would love an answer. i hate the idea of reformating my hard drive and starting all over again.
i had to use this wizard and share the directories before being able to access them in network places. also have to make sure that logged in user has network admin rights (i think)?
