hello all, i recently built a new machine, basically from scratch. i have been running it for only a week or two, so far and last night i happened to notice that the cpu was touching around 50 degrees c. i remember reading in the manual that it took a good number of processing hours for the heatsink and thermal compound to reach maximum efficiency, but i have to say, i am still a little nervous about letting my cpu get above 50c. now, keep in mind that i am not an overclocker, nor do i wish to be. my new cpu is an amd athlon 64 x2, 5200+ and socket am2. i am looking for plausible suggestion for cooling within an already well-ventilated case. i use a lian-li pc-60usb b2, with two front panel fans, one back panel fan and a top panel exhaust fan. the proprietary fans for the cpu and the videocard are installed. any helpful replies will be appreciated. thanks, eric
visit the amd cpu support website. you will find what is the temp. range the cpu can handle. overall, at 50c, i see no harm, but check the website regradless for your cpu model. tada -----willy
good luck -----willy
is the 50c at idle or under load
thanks for the links, willy. i'll check out the docs and see if i can find the normal operating temps. vap, i am using a program called easytuner that came along with my gigabyte mobo to measure rpm/temp.
max operating temperature (c) 55 - 70 the above is what i was able to track down for my particular cpu. when i was watching it on the easytuner app last night, i saw that it was hovering right around 48 - 50 c. this was after the machine had been up and running for a while. i had been playing games and running applications for probably a few hours. i guess it is still within it's safety zone. if anyone has a better suggestion for an app to measure stats, i'd be grateful.
let us know what that says. vapcmd ps i've got a an amd 4800 x2 and it isn't anywhere near that hot....it runs under 30c (28c now) at idle with the amds stock hs fan. ambient temp is 70f
actually from what i have read at intel.. tempature flucuations are more dangerous than some warmer than normal temp. reading.. i would go with a steady as she goes tempature reading.. and not create a pc-environment that caused cold air to suddenly hit the machine surfaces.. i have had had high heat flags run on my machine and nothing ever happened..this was with a celeron d[331]2.66ghz cpu..i replaced that cpu w/p4[531]3.0ghz..and of course things run exactly so.. .. video rendering is cpu intensive..w/p4 i have no issues.
