just built a new computer. it's my 5th one so i'm not a newbie in doing this. i am having a strange problem though. here it goes: built the computer and installed the os and everything was fine. the following day when i came to use the pc i touched it, got a small static shock, which then shut down the computer. i was quite alarmed, so took the machine apart and checked my mobo install and the front of the case usb ports (heard this might cause this). i then restarted the machine, created some static, touched the computer and it did not shut down. success! unfortunately it didn't end there. the pc ran through the night and when i came to use it the next night i touched the computer with my leg and it shut off. but there was no shock. i then rebooted and touched the case, pushed the case, etc. and it was fine. a number of hours later i touched the case and it shut off! this is crazy! any ideas as what the problem might be? i'm thinking perhaps something to do with heat, but i'm not even sure how to proceed.... any suggestions appreciated!
has a problem. seems that your third wire ground is not continuous from the computer to the ground in the main box. the erratic shut down times are simply when you have enough of a static charge. the path of the current [which can be momentarily high] should flow with extremely low resistance and voltage level in the ground wiring, through the ground path. also could be caused by a ground wire problem within the power supply itself. a ups or surge protector in the line??? is your mobo properly grounded to the mounting plate???
hi, now since according to what you are saying that the computer just shuts down automatically or abruptly, u might want to check the processor fan and heatsink assembly for seating problems. make sure that the fan and heatsink assembly you have installed are of good quality and it is seated properly otherwise you might encounter overheating problems in the future also.
consider turning off the all caps. it is considered to be rude and yelling in internet communication.
static electricty can do crazy things and it need not be a sparky amount as seen by many. since, this problem repeats alot, at least touch some other grounded device/metal/static(touch) pad to discharge yourself. then proceed to the computer and continue on. if you walk across a rug, carpet or wear staticly clothes that alone will generate the esd needed and plaque you. i suggest besides the above get a secerarty's work floor mat used in office's and place under your chair. many a mat has a metal contact button to route static to grd. plug of ac outlet or get that type of mat. remember static can be in the thousands of volts range and the simple power on/off swith only needs 5v to work. these are simple suggestions and it maybe entirely something else, but came to mind as this is the season for such problems. also, understand previous static damage if the cause of problems could have comprised the system and its now too readily ease to shutdown for whatever reason as an end result. tada -----willy
yeah i have the same.. well i would'nt call it a problem. it's likely to happen to any ones computer. just becareful don't be going ahead and restarting your comp with your fingear cause that can really mess up your computer.
