hi all this is a problem i have been wrestling with for some months. my system is a dell with amd dual core processor. operating system vista home premium. i stopped using ie some time ago as i found other browsers to be quicker. but some downloads will automatically open ie when they are trying to install them selves. then the fun begins!!!! it begins by opening a single page that opens for a few seconds then closes then opens and closes again. then 2 pages will do the same independent of each other, then 3, then more and more until my screen is a mass of ie pages open and closing randomly and i have no option but to close down and reboot. i have tried all sorts of remedies as follows: - i have tried uninstalling ie but the same thing happens with ie7 i have checked on the microsoft web site and they suggested running their online antivirus and anti spy scans which has done nothing. i have tried numerous other anti spyware, antivirus and general utility programs which do nothing. i have run out of ideas can any body help?????? neil liverpool england
although you have used &quot;numerous other anti spyware, antivirus and general utility programs&quot; there are some specific programs to be found that will check for all forms of viruses/ malware/ rootkits, etc. i have found the advice from grif still hold true, no matter what o/s you're using  report back and tell us if a solution has been found.
hi brecon thanks for the input, i have tried all the suggested antivirus and malware programs and although they all said they found objects that should not be there, they still have not cured the problem... has any one else got any other suggestions?
assuming it didn't happen when you first use the machine it won't happen either if you go back to factory settings with a 'system recovery' or whatever such a thing is called with your machine. kees
that is an option i am considering but restoring all the programs, down loads and settings is such a drag that is a last resort. but thanks for the suggestion
