i recently purchased an external hd (3.5 desktop seagate barracuda 7200.7 80gig model:st380011a) and a hard drive enclosure (unbranded but working). i wanted to connect the hd to my laptop with a measly 20 gig hd to store video. i tested the enclosure with a 10 gig quantum fireball hd that i knew worked fine. the drive was recognised by windows was formatted etc through usb 1.1. when i tried to connect my drive using the enclosures firewire port however the drive failed to show in my computer. after some serious fiddling it did work (once) and i was able to transfer data successfully. after this i put the seagate hd in the enclosure and attached it to windows via usb 1.1. the drive was formatted in ntfs and worked perfectly. again when i tried to use firewire it failed to be recognised by windows, no matter how much i fiddled. now my firewire port in my laptop is a pcmcia card (unpowered), this couldnt be the problem however because the enclosure has its own power supply and you can hear the hd initialising when you flip the power switch on the enclosure. the firewire card itself works fine, i have tested it with my ipod mini and it recognises it and transfers data perfectly. i've checked device manager and the hd doesnt show in disk drives when connected via firewire, when connected via usb it shows as 'st380011 a usb device'. the firewire device shows as it should do, under network adapters and ieee1394 devices when plugged in. the thing that really has me confused is that about 80% of the time when i connect the hd via firewire i can hear the ping that shows windows has detected a new pnp device, but nothing shows in device manager, my computer or disk management!!! please help me!! p.s. i own a toshiba satellite 1110 mobile intel celeron 1.5 ghz 256mb ram 16mb mobile radeon graphics
that's a windows annoyance. a lesson i learned is to connect said units with usb on pcs and firewire on the macs. it seems this is something still under development. in closing, no os was noted. bob
apologies my os is xp home sp 2 updated fully thanks for taking the time to answer my query anyway.
will find plenty of company but no solid do this cure. i've come to learn to not hook up a drive that way. bob
if this is the reason a lot of the new 64-bit (at least the amd ones) motherboards don't support firewire. just a thought. chuck
seems fine here. the reason you may not see firewire everywhere is that 1 dollar royalty to it's patent holders. bob
about firewire not working well on pcs. have seen you make it before. even though i may not need it, i insist that any mobo i use include it, and the case have a front plug. haven't moved to 64-bit yet, but have a nice socket 939 board picked out that supports 1394a. cheers. chuck
the only way to hook up camcorders. if you read microsoft's knowledge base, they were still patching it up in sp1, then again in sp2 and if you watch others, you get the idea that hard disks on firewire (with windows) is just not ready for everyday use. bob
hopefully with the introduction of vista microsoft will correct this fundamental problem. i can't really see it though, microsoft have their lot in with usb (financially) and developing support for firewire which has a superior actual throughrate than usb 2.0 (according to cnet znet and other major hardware reviewers) would just be throwing money away!! n.b. microsot get royalties every time a device is created for usb so the more usb devices the more money they make (for those who dont already know that).
feel the love? bob
&quot;technically apple is the legal guardian of this closely protected property, six of the eight key patents issued for firewire technology cite michael d. jonas teener as the chief architect responsible for their advancements. in fact, when teener left national semiconductor in 1986 to join apple computer, he had already begun early efforts on a low-cost technology to connect hard drives to one another. teener became the founding chair and editor of the international standard (ieee-1394), a blueprint for the exchange of high-bandwidth digital audio. he was also instrumental in recruiting ideas from other innovators and in expanding the ambitions of the multimedia technology to include video streaming.&quot; [edited] so, apple gets the money from the major patents and that guy has his name credited with the invention. also interesting to discover that firwire was initially a system to connect hard drives together ... another case of microsoft really dropping the ball.
