hi all. i just purchased a new sata 500gb drive that my computer will not recognize. i already have a 200gb ide drive. i set the bios on-chip configuration to sata and the boot sequence sees the new drive but when i get into windows the drive is not there. under device management i see the ide, cd and dvd drives but not the new drive. there are two sata on-board connections and i have tried them both. the drive spins up and seems to work. i took it back to where i purchased it and they say it's fine. my only other option is to get one of those pci, sata to ide adapter cards. i am running windows xp on a msi motherboard 1.6ghz amd processor. any thoughts? thanks, mark
i bought a couple hdds for my first computer and had the same thing happen to me with my seagate but not my western digital. the problem turned out to be that the seagate simply didn't format itself on its own like the western digital. it's been such a long time since i found where it was hiding when i booted the computer up that i've forgotten how to find it again. this site though has step-by-step instructions on how to do it, and it looks about the same as what i did.
no, it's a western digital and i did look in the 'manage' area and the new drive is not showing up, that is my problem. i know how to format the drive but i need to see it before i can format it. lol. any other ideas? thanks again
and you cannot see the drive under 'disk management' ? what xp service pack are you running ? is the jumper on the hdd set for sata 1.5 or 3.0 ? vapcmd
well, i took the tech's advice and got the pci adapter card and that seems to have fixed the problem, he indicated the sata on-board connections may not be working, not sure how but... after all this, my internet connection got messed up somehow. i could ping sites, but i still got the &quot;page not found&quot; error. i spent an hour going over everything; i even reset the winsock and nothing. i turned off all startup programs, nothing, then disabled the panda security/virus software, poof, works fine now. thanks for all your help, mark
