ok, i've seen and read other posts that are almost identical to my issue but none that are exactly like mine. i've been through microsoft and dell with no solution, i'm hopeful that i can find a solution or at least a good answer here. i have a dell xps 600 and i'm running windows xp pro 32bit. my computer came from the factory with 2gb of dual cahnnel ram ddr2-sdram pc2-5300 (333 mhz) i recently purchased two more gb of ram from dell making sure to ues the exact same type. my computer has 4 dimm slots and the motherboard can use up to 8gb of ram with a 64bit os. my problem is that the new ram shows up in the bios but not in system properties. it also shows in system information but system information is also telling me that i only have 2 gb available. i have run pc wizard to see what it has to tell me. pc wizard tells me that i have 1gb of ram in each dimm slot, but under the configuration tab when you click on the windows logo it tells me that i have only 2gb of ram, i'm a bit confused, i have the same software telling me two different things. i assume at this point that my os is seeing 4gb of ram but is only using 2. if there is anyone that can help me i can't even tell you how much i would appreciate it.
even those informational ones. please do more research since it's not busted. do try the /3gb switch. bob
how much ram does it say you have?
hey bob, thanks for the reply. i do realize that most apps in windows can only access 2gb max, my problem is that i'm getting info that tells me that i have 4gb installed but only 2gb are available. for example in my system properties it says 2gb. i have tried the 3gb switch but it changed nothing. thanks again.
hi there, system properties says that i have 2gb of ram while system info says that i have 4gb. do you know of a way to check and see if more than 2gb can ever be used? i know people who have added ram in their system and it allways shows in system properties for some reason in my situation it does not. as i mentioned system info shows that i have 4gb as does the bios.
if you read the articles the applications are limited to 2.0gb unless they are compiled with a special setting. nothing busted here.
from dell's support website:  maximum memory: 2 gb or 8 gb note: see &quot;addressing memory configurations&quot; to verify the amount of memory available to the operating system.  if using a 32-bit operating system such as microsoft windows xp, your computer will support a maximum of 2 gb of memory . if you are using a 64-bit operating system, your computer will support a maximum of 8 gb (2-gb dimms in each of the four slots) of memory. sorry, but you max out at 2gb.
thank you for the time and info rob, honestly thanks to this forum i now know whats going with my computer. now to see if i can send the memory back. thanks again.
thats what i get for trusting the manufacturers of both the computer and the operating system that runs it to tell me what i need to know about their product. thank you for your time and your ability to state the obvious. i use computers every day and i'm almost always able to fix my own issues but this time i got the idea in my head that i could run 4gb of ram on my computer, of course this idea was given to me by a salesman selling ram of course. anyway, thank you for your help and now i'll sit back and wait to see if the apps i use will ever be compatible with an 64bit os.
i am getting ready to build a new system and am thinking of using vista-does it go past 2 gb?
there are 64-bit versions of windows but it's a wasteland of hard to find drivers and support. bob
thanks for the info. i have been told the more ram installed the better & faster games would run.why do they have four dimm slots in the new motherboards and tell you the capacity if it isn't going to be used?
while the mfg could guess which os you're going to use, they don't know for sure what os and what version of the os you will be installing. and with 4 dimm slots, folks can start with 2 @ 256mbs, 2 @ 512mbs, 2 @ 1gb or 4 @ 512mbs ... depending on budget. vapcmd ps...ddr2 ram hasn't always been this cheap.
that was back when the average machine had much less. today and for now, 2gb is plenty with no benchmarks showing more is better. bob
there are boot commands to get around this and a ms fix for the memory adress problem. but this will slow it down as it takes a different route to say, and isnt exactly worth it unless absolutely needed. if so you should be running 64bit anyways. windows will usually recognize around 3/3.5ish, it reserves system memory and gpu ram that will affect the memory count.
how will you fix an app that wasn't compiled with that special switch? again, the benefits of over 2gb are rare today. but i do see many that love to brag they maxed it out. bob
i have what i believe is a 32 bit operating system which i was told will only hold 2, 1 gb ram sticks in its two open slots. i already have one in there and the other 1gb is new. i believe they both are ddr (atleast the new one is) and i have an intel processor. my properties show 960 mb but my bios reads 2000 mb? please help!
what you noted can happen as some is used for video and or other things. you are posting to a 2008 post so this old post is closed. make a new post with all the machine details. bob
