i just bought a maxtor &quot;diamond max&quot; 200gb internal hard drive and became frustrated with the installation. the instructions state that you must create a bootable floppy disk with the ata drivers for windows xp. that would be fine, except that my computer has no floppy drive. the directions suggest that you use a temporary plug-in external floppy drive for this purpose....great. i had to drive 20 miles to buy the drive...now i have to go back and buy a floppy drive so that i can install it? my question is this. are all internal hard drives like that? do they all require a floppy disk boot? i'd rather buy and install a different hard drive at this point. the thing is, maxtor didn't include &quot;floppy drive&quot; in the specs listed on the box, so i thought i'd be fine. now i'm scared to purchase any of them. please help?
the hard drive is what model number? what is the make and model of the computer? with a proper installation of windows xp, there is no extra driver installation required. the exception is sometimes when you need to install a serial ata (sata) driver to use an sata hard drive, but that driver would come from your pc or motherboard maker. there are some maxtor hard drive tools (maxblast, powermax, et al.) that may be helpful, but they are not drivers and are not required. * * * * * once the hard drive is installed, you can partition and format it in disk management. also, there are some maxtor hard drive models that require a firmware upgrade to work properly in some computers.
it's simply an issue with microsoft's os that didn't include drivers and we are paying the price. for pata (you didn't tell) drives we don't have this issue since sata arrived after windows xp. bob
i installed a wd 10,000 rpm sata drive and i had to make a floppy boot drive with the sata drivers on it. that was installed on xp. the other three hard drives or maxtor ide 7200 rpm and they did not require boot up floppy to run them, but i had to set up bios so i could run raid and sata. and i had to get the drivers from the mb disc that came with the mb raid drivers. the raid driver were installed when i got to my desktop. good luck wendell h
