i was told there is a way to set up a home network using only an ethernet cable. ive tried using windows home network setup but they will not connect. i dont know how to set this up im lost. i dont know what the settings need to be on nic card. i dont even know where to start. some one help me.
connect it to a broadband modem, then connect the pcs to the router. all connections are made with the ethernet cable. unless you're talking about connecting one pc to the modem and another pc to the main pc. that can be a royal pain and requires two nics and that the main pc be turned on for the other pc to access the net. wayne there are 10 types of people who understand binary; those that do and those that don't. click here to see the cnet faces, learn a little about analog and digital data, internet connections, spyware removal, and download free software.
that does not connect to the internet, just get a switch, have all computers connected to that switch, and make all computers part of the same work group, and assign each computer a fixed ip address that is in the same sub net ie 10.10.26.1 - x and use a mask of 255.255.255.0 dont worry about the dns settings, leave blank then you can map drives between them and see all of them using the browse network icon.
my desktop is connected to the internet via wireless (base provided access points outside the building) its the only internet we got. what i wanted to know is if i could plug in a ethernet cable to my nic on my desktop and then plug the other end to the nic on my laptop and have them share the internet and access files between the two. if this is not possible just say so and ill stop posting. i dont want to get hubs or switches or routers because i lack the necessary funds to do so.
since this setup has nothing but potholes in getting to work i only note it and make no offer to make it work. bob
im not trying to network my pc's together via wireless im trying to network them via lan card using ethernet cable.
if you don't see why then you'll have to upgrade your networking skills till it makes sense. good luck, bob
because if i connect to the ad hoc network then i will have to disconnect from my wireless internet and neither computer will have access. i still need my desktop to have internet access i just dont need it to be shared among both computers.
the answer i read above and what i provided would enable connections from what parts i see in your collection. good luck with all this since it could be you did have it configured proper but had a firewall or account issue or the wrong ethernet cable. bob
i have a desktop with a realtek pci ethernet nic card with a cat5 ethernet cable hooked up to my laptop through a realtek ethernet nic card. both are set on factory settings. all i have done so far is run the windows home network setup. since my desktop has the wireless internet on it i set that to access internet directly and ran the same home network setup on my laptop and set that to access through another computer since it will be accessing it through my desktop. when im done it asked me to restart so i did. and nothing happened. it still says a network cable is unplugged. from what i heard ive done everything right. i dont know why it wont work. right now the tcp/ip settings are all set on obtain automatically. do you even have to mess with those settings at all to get the network to work?
you need a crossover cat cable because nics don't have mdi-x ability; modern hubs and switches do.
get a cat cable?
here i can get an old hub for less than that crossover cable. where are you? sorry to see you struggle here. the notes above do have the info but no step by step and the article i added has to be rethought to be used but it does contain some needed tips to make it all work the way i'd like to use it. --&gt; big idea. why do you need a network? why not shuttle files over with cdrw or usb memory key? bob
sometimes ill be on my laptop and my room mate will be on my desktop and ill need some stuff off it and it would be easier just to be able to get into it through my laptop. and now that i think about it it would be nice to share the internet connection between the two also.
i saw network address. if i change the network address on both pc's will this help. what should i change to is this is so.
&quot;if i change the network address on both pc's will this help. what should i change to is this is so.&quot; already answered. not that it matters but if this was already covered maybe you need to be more specific about why you can't use it. bob
