hi, i can't seem to figure this one out. pc specs: asus p4s800 motherboard pentium 4 2.8ghz 512mb ddr memory i don't think anything else is relevant. it was a barebones kit. i put everything together back in april i think and everything was working fine. i haven't experienced any problems until recently. suddenly one day the computer would not boot. i would turn it on and it would power up but nothing happened. no beep, it would just hang. so, i opened it up and started disconecting parts(hd, cd drives, etc) one by one. no change. then i started to check connections on everything else(video card, memory, etc) and nothing. now for the part that really confusses me. i unlocked the cpu fan to try to take it off. i had difficulty getting it off so i decided to give up, reattached the fan and just for kicks turned it on. it booted and went straight to system bios with a message next to cpu external frequency(i think). it said something about the setting being too high. i think it was at something like 200/33. i could be wrong about that value. i have it written down somewhere. anyway there wasn't a lower setting. so i left it alone and exited for the bios and let the pc boot. after this, anytime i wanted to use my computer i would have to unlock the cpu fan, lock it again then boot. otherwise the system would just hang without booting. also, the computer would freeze if i had it on for too long. now it will not boot no matter what i do. could this be a problem with the power supply unit? i thought it might be the processor overheating maybe. i am really lost here and hope someone might be able to help. thank you.
hear much more details about this locking / unlocking of the hsf. describe exactly what you are &quot;unlocking&quot; and why you can't get the fan off. separating the hsf combo from the cpu should be simple, the heat sink compound may cause them to stick together a little but should still be easy to separate. also it is a combination of a heatsink and a fan. are you trying to remove the fan from the heat sink???? any chance that you are unlocking the zif connector lever??? [zero insertion force] that allows the cpu to be put in or removed without any insertion force?? had a case in the forums where someone was doing that and caused the cpu contacts to get burned due to poor contact because the lever was not locked.
well this is going a little beyond my knowledge. i have been learning alot as a result of this problem which is great. anyway i probably could have gotten the fan off but i really didn't know what i was doing and was afraid of accidentally damaging something. there are two levers that lock the fan in place atop the heatsink. all i did was open the levers, found the the fan came loose but did not come right off and because i didn't know what i was doing i locked the fan back in place and tried to boot up. even if i did something wrong at that stage it wouldn't explain the initial problem. although it might have made matters worse. i do not think that is the case. i was trying to be very carefull. as for the zif connector lever, i am not sure what this looks like. the levers i was touching were about 1.5 inches in length, laying horizontally, one the top and one on the bottom of the heatsink(at least i think they were connected to the heatsink). up until about a week ago i had no idea what a heatsink was.
my guess is that you are describing a pentium 4 fan and heat sink. after you loosen the leavers the metal clips have to be moved to remove the fan and heat sink. john
