hello folks, my new year started with a weird virus infecting the system and telling me that my hdd is crashing, ram temp too high etc. it blocked my access to all files. i booted my pc with usb linux and copied all files to external hdd. now i restored pc to factory defaults but this hdd health is haunting me. i ran hdtune but i don't understand the results. i have uploaded screenshots at  i will be very thankful if somebody could read it and let me know if i have a reason to worry. i really don't want hdd fail on me so if there is any sign, i would like to replace hdd rightaway. the laptop is about 2 years old. hdd is not making any weird noise but it has happened that when i am working on it, my toddler may lightly hit a laptop and it would warn me with a popup that it has parked hdd head to a safe location.and i have never had any issue with corrupt file or something else like that. many thanks in advance.
if i knew this laptop was running vista on 1gb ram then i would think nothing of the rather low numbers i saw on the graph image. as to the heat, it is often the lack of maintenance. i have to ask if you are doing your own work or having it done every 6 months. some folk don't know we need to give the air vents a shot of canned air regularly to keep the machine's vents clear. bob
this laptop is toshiba satellite a505, runs win7 x64 home premium with 4gb ram. i do all maintenance by myself. i have heard of cleaning air vent using air cans but honestly i am too scared too do that as i am afraid that instead of getting the dust out, i will block it even further by pushing it in. may be i just need to know how to do it correctly.
yes, the numbers are a bit low but if the laptop is not getting regular maintenance with the basic simple canned air then what you reported would be normal. bob
the vent (air out) should be on the side of the unit, induction, (air in) is generally on the bottom of the unit. hold the laptop so that you can blow air through the induction input. make sure the laptop is off and don't hold the air too close, stand it off several inches and blow it out.
mindstyle.. the symptoms you're reporting sounds like they may be &quot;fake&quot;, depending on what type of &quot;malware&quot; was installed. have a look at the below removal guides. note where the first states: &quot; system fix is a fake computer analysis and optimization program from the fakehdd family of rogues. this rogue displays false alerts that are designed to make you think that your computer has hard disk problems that have lead to corrupt and missing data. &quot; further down the page, there's a list of the false alerts. is it this what you're experiencing? are you being asked to pay for the program, in order to fix it? remove system fix (uninstall guide) remove system check (uninstall guide) if so, either of the guides should help you remove it. if not, sounds if you have some (physical) cleaning to do! best of luck.. carol
