hi to everybody, just got my pc parts from newegg, but encountered a problem with this mobo; in the users guide that came with it, chapter2:hardware setup 1.jumper setting: set the cpu external clock, frequency ratio and the cpu voltage according to the instruction printed on the manual or silkscreen printed on the mainboard. now, i read all the guide carefully but didnt find anything mentioning where and how to setup jumpers for any cpu. does that mean that the mobo is jumperless?(on the mobo i found only 4 jumpers(jp1(cmos clear), jp2(cpu fan),jp3&jp4(both 3 and 4 are power on by usb) i m just afraid im missing something here. thanks
what's happened to their support. do they just dump this stuff in your lap and run away? why would you buy for such people? bob
bios area?? most newer mobos only require setting one parameter. are you sure that &quot;cpu external clock ratio&quot; is the correct terminology?? modern cpu's have their multiplier [clock ratio] top locked [you can lower it if overclocking] what settings are allowed? my bet would be that you are setting the memory bus speed, so that the correct fsb gets set. what speed memory are you using??? seems that robert thinks that newegg sold you a kit. they are only a parts supplier.
automatically. just set the mobo up with cpu with hsf, memory, video, and monitor. front panel connections, nothing else. turn power on and get the first video screen. get that, shutdown and hook up a keyboard and turn on again and go into bios, it will show the cpu frequency et al. don't bother installing anything else until you get this far. if the speeds are incoreect, the mobo should default to the lowest to protect the cpu. the voltage sttings are probably for overclockers use. doesn't the mob manual show a default setting for the voltage??? with that the mobo sets it automatically for the cpu.
yes, i used the correct terminology. in the user guide there is a two page bios setup program chapter from which the only thing about voltage and stuff is 'frequency/voltage control' allowing to adjust freq/volt of mobo. im using roswell 512 ddram, pc3200.
