my sound wont work after i re-installed windows. i have onboard sound and wonder why it says &quot;no sound device&quot; look here  sorry for the small letters... i have a dual monitor set-up and now photoshop as of yet
hardly any machine will work proper after we install windows. try installing the support drivers for your system. i'd tell more but your post revealed so little about the machine. bob
well i decided to try linux on my computer, downloaded it, burned it, all went well. then in the middle of the installation it froze. then i had no os,(or a recovery disk from hp) so i had linux for a week and couldnt install win vista for some reason. so i tried some stuff, format hdd,no ,install vista, nope, download a recovery disk, nope, i was trying alot of things. the thing that finaly worked: my mom told me to fix her old computer hdd to work as an external but se got the wrong case for it. i ended up botting on her hdd in my media center in safe-command promt mode(all others wouldnt work. then i did crtl-shift-esc... ran the explorer program, hit start-f typed in &quot;recovery&quot; and found a way to burn a recovery cd. so i have an hp media center now on win xp pro... thats probably y but i need to find out on how to get my sound back kuz i dont wanna spend 60$ for somethin i already got.... is that detailed enough???
well i decided to try linux on my computer, downloaded it, burned it, all went well. then in the middle of the installation it froze. then i had no os,(or a recovery disk from hp) so i had linux for a week and couldnt install win vista for some reason. so i tried some stuff, format hdd,no ,install vista, nope, download a recovery disk, nope, i was trying alot of things. the thing that finaly worked: my mom told me to fix her old computer hdd to work as an external but se got the wrong case for it. she bought an ide external case for a serial ata.... i ended up botting on her hdd in my media center in safe-command promt mode(all others wouldnt work. then i did crtl-shift-esc... ran the explorer program, hit start-f typed in ''recovery'' and found a way to burn a recovery cd. so i have an hp media center now on win xp pro... thats probably y but i need to find out on how to get my sound back kuz i dont wanna spend 60$ for somethin i already got.... is that detailed enough???
go get your drivers from hp.com did you typo that m7334 part number? either that or i did when i looked at hp.com. but if the drivers are available they will be at hp.com why not just use the restore cds and save the xp pro for another machine? bob
