i recently purchased a yamaha cavit dp-u50 personal sound receiver for the pc. i also purchased the yamaha ns-u50 speakers as well. how do i get these speakers to work with this receiver and did i buy the wrong speakers??? the receiver has rca plugs but the speaker are the normal &quot;bare wire&quot; connections. i am getting no sound from this setup. please, anyone, help! lol
amplifier capable of driving the speakers??? or does it expect you to use powered speakers which have an audio amplifier built into them??? i'll do a search and see if i can learn more. as for the two wires you can simply snip the rca connector off and use the wires. the shield may be the return for both speakers.
comes with two sound powered speakers. why did you buy separate speakers? or did you simoply buy the card??????/
it says downside no amplifier!!!!!!!!!!!!!
i purchased each separately. the receiver was sold alone and i thought i had purchased the correct speakers. i guess i didnt. i tried snipping off a pair of rca jacks (with speaker wire) but the sound is way too low. have i missed something here or do you think i should purchase other speakers???
ray, thank you for taking the time to look at this. i guess i should have researched this better before i purchased it. (ebay purchase)
speakers, because the unit does not have an amplifier built in.. the first link that i went to [$190 or so] said that it came with powered speakers, then saw on other links that you could get it much cheaper without speakers. didn't know that you bought it through ebay. i've never even looked there for anything. i figure if i got burned once i would never save enough to make up for it on another purchase. you can get a cheap pair of powered speakers at wal-mart for $15.00. with a so called &quot;woofer&quot; for $25.00. hope that things turn out ok, now that you know the solution.
yeah...dp-u50 is a processor only, no amp. the rp-100 has the built in 30 watt per ch. amp + a tuner; still only 2 channels (virtual dolby 5.1. -you can find one for $99.- nice price). also, if i'm not mistaken, you can check out the rp-u200: 5 channel discrete + a remote. i picked up a pair of the ns-u50's for $17.99 (new) last week. they're o.k with a sub, but my polk r15's sound much better. i'm using the rp-100, mostly in straight stereo. i got it to use with my g4 cube which only has usb sound interface- does everything i need & more for not a lot more than a pair of those tinny mac pro speakers. good luck.
