as a newbie, can anyone tell me what a parition is and why do i need them? if i don't need them, how do i get rid of them expecially if they take up memory? how can i view the paritions in my computer? windows xp
there are long discussions and old tales that are nothing but urban rumor that partitions make a machine run faster or &quot;save&quot; your files in case you have to reinstall the os. i've found that to be false. what's the goal here? you can, with google research what a partition is but for now why change what you have? bob
i googled partition but really never understood why i need them?
a blank hard disk is just a pile of &quot;sectors.&quot; there is no organization so a partition is made so a file system can be held there. there are long passages about how a file system works but i'll end with writing &quot;yes, we need that.&quot; bob
hi lynn a simple way to describe it would be like... you buy a harddisk of 500gb for your computer. 1) create one big partition will give you c: drive with 500gb 2) create e.g. two partitions will give you c: drive with e.g. 60 gb and a d: drive with the remaining 440gb. (actual drive space will be less but its easier to understand this way). the advantage of creating partitions like in example 2), is if you only use c: for your os and to install applications and drive d: to store all your data, you can format the c: drive and reinstall your os, without moving your data on the d: drive. in this way your computer will get more organized (not faster nor safer). but remember. if the harddisk crash both drive c: and d: will be lost.
a partition is an area of the physical disk dedicated to an operating system according to the file system/ hierarchy. what the previous person stated isn't true. windows uses a style of partitioning that is similar to the default bsd style of &quot;slicing a disk.&quot; you are not creating partitions, you are creating dedicated areas within the partition. there is no c or d drives in the layout of the master boot record. you only have four primary; and, if you want more then you must only create three primary and have number four separated into logical sections. you cannot resize a partition from within itself and you cannot do such without permissions as the root user. you view the partitions with fdisk. if you want to resize, then use an external device such as a live cd or a usb installed os. i suggest knoppix.
