here's what i was thinking of getting...(all newegg btw) case: rosewill r114a case w/ 400 wt psu; $57 motherboard: intel 915p; $112 cpu: p4 3.2 ghz prescott core; $222 ram: 512mb corsair xms ddr-500 $139 sound card: audigy 2 zs gamer limited $120 cd drive: dvd-rw w/ dual layer $110 video card: was thinking 6800gt but also maybe pci-express x-16 x800 pro $430 monitor: nec 19&quot; crt $214 os: xp pro sp2 $146 hd: seagate sata 160gb 7200rpm $129 what i'm looking for is a system that can be upgradable as far as ram goes but pretty nicely set as far as gaming an general multimedia goes for the next 2-3 years or so. i'm coming off of a p3 733mhz, 128ram, 32mb tnt2 m64, sb sound, 30gb hd, and win me so obviously this is going to be a jump in performance. i'm trying to balence mid high end performance on a moderately tight budget right now. thoughts on what i'm looking into? missing components? keyboard adn mouse obvious exclusions. i just looked a bit at amd compatible boards and noticed that they only support up to ddr 400, is that a bottleneck or can they get away with the lower supported speeds? also i thought i remembered somewhere reading about someone using a hd as ram. is that possible or is my memory faulty?
did you notice that amd has 64 bit processors. next year they come out with 64 bit dual processors. as for memory the difference between 400 and 500mhz is nothing. never skimp on memory. why only 512mb. get amd and put 3 gigs of ram in. use your computer now and go to  and look at comparisons. nothing but amd blowing you away. besides the processor the most important things are memory and harddrives for speed. look at the sata 10,000 rpm drives. also next year they come out with a new operating system from microsoft called longhorn. just think about what you will be missing out on a year from now. think about it. skip
skip: i read your reply to a post concerning questions asked about which parts to buy and use to custom build a new pc. i'm contemplating such now myself but have no idea as to which brands of parts are best to use in a custom built pc configuration done by a computer repair shop/custom builder. does this website or to your knowledge any other website offer a list of parts that should be included when someone is considering having a new pc custom built by a computer shop rather than built by one of the big guys; dell; hp; gateway; and others? if such a sight does exist would it also list name brands of parts to consider for a good custom built pc? i've been to new egg.com which seems to list all of such but i know absolutely nothing about what i need to buy. it's like my experience with radioshack; radioshack carries tons of products but you better know what you need when you go in there because if you don't; you'll be at a total loss because most of their store's employees also don't have a clue as to what they're selling. if you can help me out; i would appreciate it. big steve biloxi, ms end of message 01/24/05
well the reason i was only going to go 512 now was to let the price drop a bit more then go up more. originally i was looking at a gig or so of 533 but scaled that back also, let's say i did go with an amd 64, would the dual proc fit into the same 754 socket? plus from what i've seen of amd boards the fsb isnt as easily defined as on intel comp boards. i've seen some that list the fsb in mhz but for the most part they dont. so win longhorn; should i go with me or xp home til then than upgrade or xp pro as i had planned? what's new in it? heard of it but not about it. i'm not trying to build a cutting edge machine or even update it to that for that matter, but i'm looking to be just behind the curve in most places. thing with comps though is that a year from now theres always going to be lots of new stuff. if i wait til next year then there's going to be more new stuff to wait for. then the hd. could i use a 10k rpm as primary for my os and office apps then use a 7.2k rpm for my gaming use and media file storage? part of my caution about dropping too much over 1500 or so is that i have other things that i want to get too and i've got very limited resources as i'm a college student.
prices with ram go by demand. the more the demand, the more the supply and that is what becomes cheaper. look at the old pc sdram 133 it cost about$90 for a 512 stick. about the same as pc2100 ddr. then look at pc3200 ddr. the prices are a bit cheaper because it whats in demand now. i'm not 100% sure but,believe the amd duals will go into the socket 939 boards. go with xp pro for sure. longhorn will be build for the newer faster 4+ gig and 64bit processors, but will look a lot like xp,with some newer feature for digital and probably some voice command features ect. i would go the other way around with the harddrives. theres more need for speed in gaming. as far as price if your building one yourself you can build a real decent computer for 7 or 8 hundred. dollars. skip
i agree with the amd path. forget about longhorn, whats here now is xp and the 64bit verson is in relase canadate 1 and it's free from ms, with the full relase 2nd quarter of this year. you gan get 1gb gb of ddr400 memory for less that the 512gb of ddr500. this is just my rule of thumb, i don't spend more for the video card that i do for the processor and mb combined. i agree that you can get a screeming system for $700~800. john
where are you finding the deal on the ram? newegg has 512 ddr500 for less than a gig of ddr400. and as for the cpu. thoughts about a 3400+... obviously amd has faster ones out there but that one was roughly the price of the 3.2 ghz p4 i was looking at and from what little i've seen of comparisons is fairly close to the same performance as the 3.2. also would it be better to buy a better motherboard and not quite as good of a cpu or the other way around? meaning a $100 board and say a 3700+ cpu or a $200 motherboard and a 3200+ or 3400+?
motherboard is important but, if you have the need for speed so is the cpu. speed= cpu,memory and hardrive. if your on a phoneline what the use!!??
hmm k, i'll have a look at that... and yea i am still using the phone line for net access for a coupel reasons actually... 1 i'm too cheap to justify $40 a month when i'm paying $10 now, and 2 other than satilite which is $70 a month no high speed alternative is available where i live so i'm out of luck anyway. so anyhow this would be pretty strictly gaming and jukebox type of comp so would the 3400 be the best move with a mid board to work with it? this given of course a gig of ddr400 and a 6800gt...
ok did some looking around yesterday. what are your thoughts on the msi k8n platnum with the nforce 4 ultra chipset? found that on newegg for about $160. couple that with a 3400+. good combo with ability to go higher with the cpu at a later date?
sounds good but i wouldn't blow a bunch of money without the capability for broadband. since you will be playing against the computer, speed isn't as important. i'm not trying to tell you what to do with your money but, i would go with a midrange computer, that you could update later. skip
good choice of going for amd. absolutely true that they currently have intel beaten. remains to be seen though, when intel do finally release their 64 bit line in the coming months(which they happened to copy from amd). the msi board looks ok, although personally, i have always prefered giga-byte or asus for my systems. gigabyte do have quite a good lineup out now for the nforce4 chipset, if you haven't checked them out already. the cpu's that you are talking about using in this system though (3400+, 3700+), are 754pin socket processors. the msi and any other current board for the athlon64 line uses the 939pin socket. 754 is now for slower sempron cpu's. the nforce4 is a 939 only chipset. a good retailer should spot this when you purchase it though and correct you, if you're lucky. imho, i think the 3500+ cpu is the best value for money cpu to get, unless you are going to upgrade this component later, then you could save some cash and get the 3200+. the performance increase is certainly worth the extra amount though on the higher model processor. happy system building. matt
plan ahead.... i would leave the 32 bit realm and go for an amd athlon 64, socket 939. judging by what your spending on vid card you must do some gaming. i wouldn't put any money in a cpu that is basically obsolete before you get it. there's a lot of agrument over the piv verses the 64. i am currently running a 64 and it will humble any piv out there. you are shopping in the right place. the best prices and service. have fun & good luck
be aware that a number of motherboeard no longer come with a game port. if you have a large investment in game controllers that use the gameport and does not work with usb-to-gameport adapters (some microsoft sidewinder products) you will need extra hardware (soundcard with gameport). msi does not support the game port on their motherboards, while a number other brands do have support. few have the actual connector (db-15) on the backplane, most have a header so you easily can add the db-15 connector. as for processor i would go for socket 939 and 1-2 gb of ram - and buy the fastest amd processor i could get for the remaining dollars after adding the other components like video card (probably go for pci express). the reason for putting most money in the other components except the processor is that the falling prices for processors make it more attractive to upgrade in a year or two compared to other components (possibly exepting the video card - therefore i would choose a board with pci express) jeff
my reaction is that you are spending a lot of money on gear with a very short half-life before becoming very cheap obsolescent gear, just as we are looking at 64-bit commercial machines arriving. you might want to rethink building a gaming machine as your first machine. are you going to overclock, etc? willing to fry some components? (i'd consider putting all these bucks into a higher end display device, myself, but that's just me...!:]) also, via is introducing their nano-itx board in 2 months- 5&quot; square & capable of using flash memory as a hyperfast hd & running off 12v- how about a gaming carputer? build something really different!!!
if you are going to use a windows xp os, i would make sure all parts used are xp compatible. i would also try to use all &quot;retail&quot; listed parts and no &quot;oem&quot; parts, the retail parts may cost more, but you should not have other compatiblity problems, such as with the motherboard which can cause crashes or lockups. one other point is with most higher end new motherboards, both intel and amd types, you will need a atx type power supply, most will need to be a version 2.0. this type of power supply will have a 24 pin main power plug or a adapter and will also have a seprate 12+ power plug for the processor (important). most power supply pre-installed in new cases do not have this type of supply. keeping the case cool is another issue, both new processors (intel or amd) need to operate below 100f or 38c, so extra fans maybe needed. i just purchased all the parts needed to build a new system. i ended up spending around $980.00 with shipping for a intel 915 asus brand motherboard with a lga 775 intel 3.2 processor, case w/temp display, atx 2.0-485 watt power supply, asus dual layer burner dvd, asus pci-16x express 128mb video card, corsair ddr dual channel 3200 - 1gb memory w/heatspeaders and a seagate barracuda sata 80gb hard drive. i looked at over 15 different vendors and ended up using 3 to purchase the needed parts. &quot; for the barebone parts &quot; for the memory &quot; for the video card i believe after buying 2 computers pre-built by companies in the past, that the better way to go is to build your own system, at least you know what you are getting. it just takes some homework and alot of looking for a good price. goodluck....
i have friends all the time wanting good systems but they don't have a lot of money. the problem with going with the 64 is the price of the processor plus the motherboard and memory. within another year you can pick these up for half the price today. the question is how fast do you want it. there was a comment on the gigabyte mainboard that was true. you can save money by going with the geforce pro2 and a 3200+ so that you can upgrade the processor later. the 3200+ is the base for the 400mhz fsb i believe. this particular motherboard has the 133mhz ite raid for 4 hard drives. check best buy for rebate specials on the wd or seagate 120gb drives. i picked up a total of 4 120gb drives for 29.99 each. the sata drives right now are adapted ide drives. you can pick up the same adapters to convert the ide to sata (which this motherboard has) so that you can have additional space. i can run doom 3 and any other game on my gigabyte mb with the 6800 nvidia card very nicely in either my 2600+ (333mhz fsb) with 1gb mem or the 3200+ (400mhz fsb)with 512mb mem. i didn't bother with the audigy 2 because the sound on the motherboard would still do all of the processing that i needed to build dvd movies, convert and alter. if money is a factor then drop it down to a 2600+ w/333fsb. hardware costs will significantly drop and still enable you to upgrade later. otherwise, double your costs and build a monster! this is just my 5 cents worth...
with the nice graphics and sounds cards you plan to use, why not install windows media center? only about $130 at newegg.com. i opted to buy an hp with wmc rather than build 'cause the $ was too good to pass. yeah, i know it's hp, but i've already cleaned out the crapware and bumped the ram to 1.5 gb. the media ctr stuff is pretty cool though.
you have not told us, what you are going to use this computer for.??? gaming ? media ? photo's ? you are doing the right thing to upgrade. but you need to ditch the powersupply unless it has a rating of 18 amps or more on the +12 volt powere leads. the newer cpu's and graphic cards reguire a lot more power. i would also go ahead and get 1 gig of ram because the newer games recommend using 1 gig. make sure you have plenty of cooling also because of more power = more heat..i have the ati 800pro card and it works great running farcry at 1280x1024 with no problems. i wish i had purchased a lcd screen but they were not recommended by the mags until i purchased my 22&quot; philips. just my 2 cents..
my apologies for the long post. intel based is not the best bang for your buck. i agree that a year or two ago, the intel solution might have been the proc of choice if you wanted the absolute performance king and didnt care about how much it cost. but since amd has developed and released to the general public their desktop 64bit technology based processors; there is no longer any reason to stick with the outdated technology that intel is pushing. just do a search for processor & mobo benchmarks. (i would include some links for you to look at, but im writing this during a break at work) the following are the parts i would order. (as listed by newegg; jan 28, 2005) rosewill black model &quot;r114a black&quot; -retail item#
jeff, i don't mean to be rude or to &quot;put-down&quot; your advice. but your statement &quot; be aware that a number of motherboeard no longer come with a game port. if you have a large investment in game controllers that use the gameport and does not work with usb-to-gameport adapters (some microsoft sidewinder products) you will need extra hardware (soundcard with gameport).&quot; granted i don't have any idea of what kind of games you play, nor do i know what games, gmartin2r plays. in my opinion the game port / midi port is no longer needed. i have been playing games on my pc's for more than 6 years now; and ever since the developement of the usb interface, i've stopped using the game port ( not that i used it that much in the first place ). and as far as i know none of my friends have used their game ports either. so, a computer that doesn't come with a game port should be like a human being having their appendix, removed, its not something that your going to miss. also, gmartin2r; spec'd out with his computer parts list a cl audigy sound card and as far i know have game port headers on the pcb and the matching backplate interface to fit the header. in all other regards i agree with your suggestions jeff. jc
wow quite a bit of activity here lately... this'll be a conglomeration post with response to bits and pieces from all the new posts. just so you knwo... first off the only thing i was going to integrade from an older system was the floppy drive and maybe a super old cd-rom for just cd playing capacity and use the dvd-rw for most of my aps that would need any speed until later when adding in a 48xcd-rw or the like... as for mobo's initially i just looking at an intel 915p, but when looking into the amd route i'm thinking a msi k8n neo platnium. thought the nforce 4 ultra chipset looked pretty good. actually the system you picked out was pretty similar to what i was looking at save for the 6600 instead of the 6800, the 2 hd's, and the cpu speed. what i'm planning is for the most part to do what i did with my current system. buy it and run it til the new tech software needs more than it as a min then upgrade/get a new one. i havent added a thing to my p3 system that i got several years ago... oh and i noticed the hd's were oem. is it better to go that way and then have to get all the cables too or go retail and get all the cables? currently i'm looking at a seagate 7200 160gig sata for $139 retail. what i originally had in mind was get a single one of those and have it partitioned into a 2-3 drives. one for os install, one for my mp3 collection and other doc type files adn the final one for other apps. so something like a 15/15/130 split or something. the idea of a 10k drive is eomewhat intriging though. would it be worth it to go 10k or would i only notice the difference if i was used to running 7.2 k drives? virus scaner was going to continue using avg 7 free... been using it so that seems to work fine. as for monitor, i use a corner desk actually so as far as i'm concerned it can stick out almost as far as it needs to so that's not an issue. i've got a 17&quot;crt right now which is fine but i figured if i was going to update the whole comp why not go up in size with the mon too. read somewhere that the refresh rate of the 19&quot; is more likely to be easier on the eyes than most 17&quot; crts... anyhow that was my thiking there... umm, someone brought up the lack of a gameport. there's only a couple apps that it would at all hurt. i do have an old sidewinder joystick but also have the usb converter for it so i can use it that way. the only bad part about that is that i lose functionality of a button, but that app is falcon 4.0. when i add the audigy 2 in i'm pretty sure that would ahve the gameport that i'd need if it was really an issue. i would imagine too that there's some sort of a converter out there for usb anyway. as to not needing a fast system because of a lack of broadband, where's the balence there? obviously my current one (733) isnt sufficient anymore, but if i'm looking for example at a 3500+ (or similar 939pin cpu), would that be overkill for the current gen of games and the early next gen of games, or should i scale back to a 2800+ or so just because i lack a broadband connection? motherboard makers: aside from the features put in and what chipset is used how to you tell who's good and who's not? that's the one of the few things i havent quite been able to catch onto yet. gigabyte, asus, abit, and msi seem to be the ones i see the most of but how do you tell who's better when they're based on the same chipset to start with? all the boards i'm looking at currently had pci-express support so that's another thing that has driven the cost upward somewhat. a 6800gt being $500 instead of $400 for the agp 8x... as for overclocking; i wasnt planning on doing any. maybe at most 10% but for the most part i was going to run the components at spec. been interested in overclocking but havent quite been able to understand how it's done so at the moment the plan isnt to do any. another thing i've debated about was waiting on the audigy 2 and utilizing the built in sound for a while so i could cut a corner there adn knock off another $120 to use elsewhere or soemthing like that. os: never really considered media center as i dont know that much about it. far as i'm concered a standard win interface will do fine. i dont need any special build in media players or anything as i plan on installing the ones i currently use once built. plus having xp pro does give me the flexability if i do go to a broadband eventually to have some addit'l firewall; least that's what i've heard. couple that wit the nforce 4 chipset and it's something that mihgt not be used but would at least be available. why should i consider mc? i've also looked quite a bit into prebuild and custon built ones but price wise it alwatys ends up being close to if not more expensive than just doing it myself. side note; who all is reputable enough to do business with? i've been pleased with newegg and tigerdirect but aside from those 2 dont know enough about other sellers. found tigerdirect from a friends mag and newegg was a message board reccomend. by comparison newegg is the better priced; plus i like the quick ship time
i am using the sound card you mentioned, and all other components look like you are right where you need to be. dual layer disk are expensive at the moment, but maybe they will come down some. the only question i ask is whether you really need that much video card. now days, most $180 cards will keep up just fine. of course, if you really do serious gaming, and have the money, more is better. consider this , though. most cards are outdated in 6-8 months (although they still work fine) and the expensive ones keep getting cheaper. i prefer to buy the slightly older (not cheaper) ones, and just upgrade every year or two. the money you save could be enough to go to 1 gig of ddr, and that will give you speed, and a nice cushion when working with photos, movies, ect. buy the best (fastest) memory you can afford, it pays in the long run if you really want that little extra speed. the memory speed will make the video, and gaming slighly faster. i am refering to the cas-2 memory clock settings in bios. you can't configure it in bios if your memory don't support it. check the specs of the mainboard you are buying to be sure it supports the faster memory, but i feel that it probably should.
have you checked out the dfi lanparty ut series of mobos? i muddled thru a ton of raving reviews... finally settled upon the ut nf3 250gb. with a newer model having hit the markets, the ut nf3 250gb can be found for less than $110. it's suppose to be an overclockers/gamers dream!
well if i go with an amd board there dont seem to be too many that support ddr any faster than 400 if i remember right. the one i'm looking at supports 266/333/400 for the type of ddr so i think that's pretty much the ceiling; least for now. vc: i've actually got almost the opposite philosophy; why not spend lots for a great one now then by the time it's completely outdated (4-5 years) it would be time to probably start over again. hence why most of the components listed are at least in the upper echelon of the quality and technological edge. probably runs about the same total cost in the long run; least in that area. i like pretty much just having something that will do the job until it no longer can. if i can make a tnt2 m64 last upwards of 4-5 years which i have, what are the odds a 6800gt would last the same amount of time if not longer before the ram size and chipset are no longer even able to handle the min requrements? good chance as far as i'm concerned... that's my take on things anyway. 2 $250 cards over 4 years or so is pretty much the same as a $500 one. it's a thought though, i'll grant that. was considering the x700 series or x800pro but some digging pointed to the 6800gt being better than the x800 and seemed to fit my more long term prefrences. *shrugs* i'll do some more shopping... figure i'll look into the 6600 a bit. if its close maybe i will go that direction for now... which might clear up enough room to keep the audigy involved... hmm, i'll check around...
afer some thought, here's what i'm looking at now... cost includes shipping case: rosewill r114a case w/ 400 wt psu; $57 motherboard: msi neo2 platnium nforce4 ultra $163(assuming newegg gets any more in stock) cpu: amd 64 3500+ $269 ram: 1 gig wintek ddr-400 $181 (2x 512mb) sound card: audigy 2 zs gamer limited $123(may be left off to cut cost) cd drive: dvd-rw w/ dual layer $110 video card: asus eax700-pro $250 monitor: ctx 19&quot; crt $159 os: xp pro sp2 $146 hd: seagate sata 160gb 7200rpm $135 modem, mouse, keyboard: $45 or so. total cost... roughly $1510 without audigy 2; $1633 with... i'd add in a floppy drive that i already have and maybe a quad speed cd-rom i've got sitting around here. good, bad, decent?
i checked on newegg.com, and i couldn't find any specs on the power supply other than it was 400 watts. i also checked rosewill's website and couldn't find any stats on the power supply. all power supplies are not created equal. i have a cheap power supply fry a motherboard when it failed after 8 months of use. todays motherboards, processors and video cards can really stress a power supply, especially when used for long gaming sessions. the cheapest 400 watt power supply (which there are stats for) on rosewill's website has a msrp of only $10 less than the msrp of the r114a case. you can bet you are not getting that power supply in the case. you are much better off buying case and power supply separately. it cost more initially, but it is my experience that you will most likely have to replace the no-name power supply in two years anyway, after an infuriating period of searching to figure out why your computer keeps crashing. it is definately cheaper than replacing your motherboard. whatever powersupply you get, make sure it has dual fans and will shut down before it overheats. i only use antec truepower power supplies now. they were one of the few in all the tests and reviews i found that actually delivered what the stats promised. in fact, they actually exceeded antec's published stats. as for cases, i am hooked on lian li. they may not have the fancy lights and graphics, and they are definatily more expensive, but with thumb screws for almost everything, plenty of fans, and a back panel/motherboard tray combo that slides out the back, they are the easiest case i have ever worked on.
ok so what should i be looking for in a psu? obviously wattage but aside from that i dont know a whole lot. i did a quick search for antec on newegg and found a sl450 for $72 or so. it's got stats for overload and over-voltage protection as well as approvals (ul, fcc, etc) so how do i read those?
&quot;cd drive: dvd-rw w/ dual layer $110&quot; the nec is probably better and faster than that model (whatever it is) and the retail one is cheaper as well i have one as do several enthustists i know and they all love it
that should work, just go with a good psu brand with adequate wattage and plugs and you should be ok
plextor 12x dvd+/-rw drive, black, model px-712sa was the one i was looking at. it's got a $30 mir right now but i dont figure that into the price... and the psu, ok so the antec one i saw was a good one; why was it a good one? aside from being 450 wt and being $72
the nec is a ide interface correct? the plextor is a sata interface. here are the newegg specs on it... write speed: 12x dvd+r, 4x dvd+rw, 8x dvd-r, 8x dvd-rw, 48x cd-r, 24x cd-rw read speed: 48x cd-rom, 16x dvd-rom interface: sata buffer: 8mb os support: windows xp/ 2000 features: lossless linking technology, buffer underrun proof technology, powerec, gigarec, q-check, securec, silent mode. here are the specs on the 3500... cache size 2 mb dvd specs dvd+r dl write speed 4x dvd+r write speed 16x dvd+rw rewrite speed 4x dvd-r dl write speed 4x dvd-r write speed 4x dvd-rw rewrite speed 4x dvd read speed 16x dvd access time 140 ms cd specs cd write speed 48x cd rewrite speed 24x cd read speed 48x assuming buffer is synonymous(sp?) with cache, the plextor has more, but otherwise they look to be fairly similar...
hi gmartin2r; both you,&quot;skippie d333&quot; and et-al, seem to have the situation in order. i (we), thank you for taking the time to despense knowledge to us great unwashed masses. i am reading,taking notes, looking for common denominators and such stuff. the cutting edge of any technology is old tomorrow. i started my &quot;next machine&quot; back in nov. i want a portable and reliable unit that i will use only for imageing processes and sound files. photoshop runs well on my current system but i have times where the delay/lag (12-20 sec.) is not good. i have started with a &quot;antec,aria mtx case, w/ 300w power supply. i don't know if this ps is of the quality of the products they sell for large units. if i run into heat/voltage problems they may provide a replacement or &quot;pcpower and cooling&quot; may be of some help. i purchased a &quot;msi&quot; km4m-v(socket a), board from new egg, one of the primary considerations was the availability of having 4 internal usb terminals for the image card(s)and usb terminals on the front. i plan on an additional sound card, i am not sure if i need a high end video card but i wish to end up with using two monitors,(one for image,the other for ps work pallets. my question,,, help me with(amd)cpu choices. they go from $45.00 to $4500.00. i think that i have given ya all enough data with regards to the end use of this machine,any responses are welcome. the issue of going for the lowest available product choice is never a wise decision. was it john glenn who commented, &quot;we are sitting on a bomb that was built by the lowest bidder&quot;. thank you daviepoo.
guess the simplistic answer would be go as fast as you could afford. as far as image processing and sound goes, you might want to do some looking around at benchmarks on intel setups if you havent already done that. intel does do better than amd when it comes to those sorts of applications, if i remember correctly. it's in gaming where amd's really shine. if you want to go amd though, either a 754 pin 3400+ or 939 pin 3500+ or above would probably be best. this given of course the rest of the machine is up to speed with that(no pc133 ram etc). i think definitely try to stay in the 3k range. dont know how high you can go in the 3ks with a socket a but the higher the better.
how bout swapping the one that comes with the case with their rv 450 or the re 502? both have overvoltage protection and i know the 502 has overcurrent protection whatever that is. the 450 is $33 and the 502 is $55 or so.
if you are going to purchase a new high end mobo, you will need to purchase a atx +12v - ver.2 type. this type of psu has the need 24 pin main power plug and a dual +12volt outputs with one just for the processor. these psu's also have sata power plugs and pci express power plug for high end graphic cards. you can see these types of psu's at &quot; the above message on &quot;custom building a new pc&quot;, also has some vendors listed.
good to know... the link is a dud though. dont know what you were shooting for but yea, definitely good to know. will look into that... was wondering what all the different configurations were when browsing newegg... so i need an atx 12v 1.2, correct?
hopefully this will take you to the correct site. the link is copied and pasted from the web page.  the psu needed is a &quot;atx +12 2.0&quot;. the &quot;2.0&quot; version psu or higher is the one needed. most come over 400 watts which is also better for supplying the needed amps. the higher wattage the less strain and heat produced from the psu. if link above does not work, may need to do a search on &quot;emermax pc power supplies&quot;.
isn't that going backward with technology. while most computers are going down in voltage to save energy and heat in your proceesor and case. with a 12v you would need a 24&quot; box fan to cool it down.
did some looking around yesterday and i still like the case so i still think i'll go that way. but swap out the psu. i cant remember what i was considering but some of the rosewill 450 or bigger psu's were 2.03 compatible. i know one i was considering was antec sl450. i think that was the main one, though looking aroudn at tigerdirect.com they had some 1.2 and 2.03 compatible psu's that were 500wt for less than an antec 450. i think tha'ts the one i was looking at. size wise the spot for the psu and the antec psu seem to be pretty close; one's measued in in and the other in mm so i cna only approximate. so get the case and an antec psu. from antec's website: sl450 features: smartpower: runs cooler and quieter atx12vcompliant for compatibility with amd and intel systems dimensions: l5.9&quot; x w5.5&quot; x h3.4&quot; +5v and +3.3v combined output: 250watts max. specs...  good one?
here is a good site to look at psu's and other products. has better prices than tigerdirect on most equipment, even some better than newegg.
ok so i've pretty much decided what i'm going to get thought i'd give it one last think through before buying it all... case: rosewill r114a case; $57 psu: antec sl450 $68 (buy.com) motherboard: msi neo2 platnium nforce4 ultra $163 (or $152 @ buy.com if in stock) cpu: amd 64 3500+ $269 ram: 1 gig corsair dual-channel pc3200(2x 512mb)$155 sound card: audigy 2 zs gamer $112(buy.com) cd drive: plextor sata dvd+-rw 8mb cache $106 video card: asus eax700-pro $250 monitor: ctx 19&quot; crt $159 os: xp pro sp2 $146 hd: seagate sata 160gb 7200rpm $135 modem, mouse, keyboard: $45 or so. so buying splits... $332 @ buy.com if they have the msi board. -$152 without... $162 @ tigerdirect.com ram and anti-static wristband $1162 @ newegg.com minus board. +$170 with it. ------ $1656 anything else i need to look into before i start buying things? was planning on buying stuff this weekend... have floppy drive waiting to go in too and extra what i assume are ide cables that i can use to hook it up.
glad to see you decided to go with amd and, the extra ram. you won't be sorry!!! skip
couple of things to add? is that the corsir valueram or xms, xms pro or whatever? if you can afford it, skip the valueram, go the xms at least. one with the cas 2 is preferable as well, although you will prob find it will only run at 2.5cl on the amd rig. another point to make is, try and get the newer seagate hdd's with the ncq feature, this improves hdd performance when used with a compatible mobo. the nforce4 is the first new generation chipset to support it. and seagate only recently released the ncq drives, and it seems many retailers still have old stock of the non-ncq drives. (or at least here in australia, thats true.) hope it all goes well with the building process, would be great if you could also report back here on how it went and any probs enountered. happy sys building!!! matt
yea it was valueram, but part of my thinking there was i could get my foot in the door with dc ddr there for less than standard ddr and later on swap it out for higher end dc ddr. same with the seagate hd which is also why i'm probably not going to go with a 10k rpm drive this time. as they become more common place i'll at least have the interface and chipset to take advantage of them later on. chances are i'll only be using about 75% of what the nforce4 is capable of, but that add'l 25% should make upgrades fairly easy as all the interfaced are borderline cutting edge which the components are more midstream. the ram, cpu, and hd are the main components that i could see myself updating in a year or so. maybe spend $200 on better/more ddr next summer, upgrade to a 10k ncq drive the year after, the x700 to a 6800 ultra oc a year after that. i'm also tinkering with the idea of cutting back the cpu by 1 to leave that option for upgrade available later on too. we'll see how much i would save and whetehr it woudl be cost effective or not. nothing below the 3000+ mark though. probably a 3200+ if anything. might be able to offset high than expected costs a bit by doing that...
the 3000+ is the lowest the 939 socket range goes. and there appears to be a worldwide shortage of the 3000+ and 3200+ at the moment. at least thats the info i read somewhere this week, and i have been having trouble sourcing them from the distributors. you may be lucky to find one in stock somewhere if u shop around though. good luck. matt
so there's a shortage huh? hmm. ok. newegg's got em so least i cans till get them.
we don't have newegg available here in australia. just reporting what i read in my amd newsletter update on thursday this week. as well as my own experiences this week trying to source certain components. make your decision and jump on it while you can get them, seeing as they have them. matt
alrighty, parts are starting to arrive so the build process has begun. i'm still awaiting the mobo, ram, and antec psu so while i'm waiting i've installed the dvd and floppy drives. the case has a nice feature on the cd/dvd drives where you have a faceplate that will open with the drive door so there's no problem with color coding. at least with the plextor model i cant use that due to the size of the drive. the one for the floppy works just fine. it was a hassle trying to get the back side of the case off, but i got it off and now the back plate for the mobo is off and ready to receive the board when it arrives. already i've found that the inside of a case is very sharp. lol... i've alredy given myself a v shaped gash on my index finger that's about 1/16-1/8 deep and about 3/8&quot; long. lol... i've also found out that the drives go in a heck of a lot easier from the front than from the back. ok call it a no-duh statement but i had no clue... also i've added a fan controller too so i've got it in but not completely hooked up. the case looks great and i cant wait to get the blue cathode tubes in there that came with the fan controller. shoudl be cool. i've got 2 case fans plus one for the hd which is also en-route. if i need more i'll know where to get them. let's see cant think of anything else thats new so that's it for now... oh but i will note how surprised i was at the difference between sata and ide cables. holy cow is there a difference. with the exception of the floppy drive, and maybe old old cdrom drive i'm all sata. hd and dvd are sata. sata cables are going to be so much easier to work with. i also like the room to work inside the case too. i dont feel cramped in there. cool... more to come later...
the process is complete... i'm sold. lol... i'll be doing this from now on. no other real problems to note. ran into a slight snag trying to figure out how to connect the 20-pin power cable to the board but once i figurd out that it only went in 1 way(the board supports 24-pin ssi psu's) it worked great. then i ran into some trouble trying to format the drive and as a last resort stuck the win xp cd in and it took over from there. very nice if i do say so myself. formatted the 136gb or so partition that i set up for c: then later in windows formatteed the rest for my mp3's. i'm pretty sure i've got all the drivers installed as everything seems to be working fine. i've got a thermometer sitting on the top fan and it ran about as high as 78f yesterday and hasnt gone above 70 today so i think it's staying pretty cool. the antec psu, 2 case fans, and the hd fan are keeping the heat level down nicely. havent gotten it into any games to really test the head dissapation yet. that's on the list of things to do shortly... anyhow, here ends build #1. did have a question though... dual channel ddr; what exactly is it? is the idea that it's able to do twice as much as the same amount of single channel? cause i've got a gig of dc ddr, and if my assumption is true then it would be comperable to 2 gigs of sc ddr... also how far would i have to overclock the 3200+ to get to the performance level of a stock 3500+? i probably wont for a while but was just wondering how hard it would be/how much it would take.
not to sure wat it actually does but i no that it works best when either u have 2 sticks together or 4 sticks together. u probly already knew that but incase u didn't, thought it would help alittle.
longhorn=bad. i heard that it will have spyware that send info back to ms.
a beta 1 (test) version of longhorn is slated for release this june primarily aimed at developers. others who have a 2nd computer to risk playing with the beta version will probably go for the test. the final version of longhorn is slated for the second half of next year.  please provide a link (url) on what you heard instead of spreading or starting a rumor. microsoft has a beta antispyware program out now that has nothing but good reviews. of course this beta version is safe as it is basically the antispyware program of a company that microsoft recently purchased, and want others to check it out. for download and info:
