hi all i haven't been here for a very long time, since my last pc build just a little under 2 years ago, so i am really out of the loop with hardware and stuff, so once more i have returned to ask for the help and support of those more technology-knowledgeable than i. basically i start university on the 16th of september and will be moving away from home for the first time. after much consideration, and due to my limited budget i have decided to try and build a new desktop pc, rather than buying a cheap laptop. my budget is around &#65443;500 for the system and monitor, and due to limited desk space i will definitely need an lcd screen (19&quot; maybe?): primary uses: - listening to music, i am planning to purchase a set of 2.1 speakers and to use my pc as my main audio device instead of taking a hifi system down to university. - the usual sort of office stuff, word, excel, running together with irc, msn maybe and also the music playing together with any other background things (makes me wonder if i need a dual core?). secondary uses: - i will likely watch movies regularly, in order to make use of the unlimited download bandwidth in campus in the first year. - i will probably play on a few games, but i'm not a big gamer and if i do play games they tend to be strategy games and the like, rather than first person shooters and stuff, so frame rate isn't a huge problem for me, but a nice looking screen would be good. as i will go very soon, this leaves me just a few days to decide upon what parts i want for my pc so that i can order them and get the system put together before i head off to university. therefore i would really, really appreciate any support and advice any of you can offer on this subject... as to be honest i just don't know what combination, within my price range will give me the best performance for the above stuff? thanks in advance to anybody who is willing to give me a helping hand! kindest regards john
my budget is around &#65443;500 for the system and monitor, and due to limited desk space i will definitely need an lcd screen (19&quot; maybe?): what's your budget? i can give you advice, and give a rough list of parts, but i have no idea what uk prices are like, as i live in the us.
that budget is 500? (the ''pound'' symbol didn't translate in your post.)
i've been working at a major computer retailer here in the states for the past two years, and it made me realize, for that price range, it can be really hard to beat a compaq, emachine, etc. i am talking regular, no rebate, full retail prices. so my advice is just make sure you price match some pre-built systems against what you are going to build, you may be suprised.
yeah it is 500 (uk) pounds. as for retail machines, i check with dell and it seems they cut corners in areas which i could cover in i choose carefully.
what website are you buying from? can you post a link? if you post a link, i'll make a list of parts that fits your budget. thanks -nathan
unless you're a serious gamer, something like an acer aspire 1642zwlm for 425 pounds (inc vat w/centrino 1.7ghz, 512mb, 60gb, dvd burner, 15&quot; widescreen) is hard to beat. you can probably shop around and get this one for less or a better one still under your budget. you can tote a laptop to class/library and bring it home on holidays. in the us, laptops are required at a number of universities as you must bring them to certain classes.
