hey guys. im gonna be makin a custom rig pretty soon here. a few friends will be helping. can you guys please give me some prevention tips? and please nothing like go out and buy anti static gloves and crap. i know you can prevent damaging your parts easier than that. thanks for your time
esd precautions i don't see much need to try to engage people you don't know in this type of discussion when you can get this much information with a few keystrokes and mouse clicks. the idea here, imo, should be to become resourceful on one's own in small matters such as these. these forums are great when it comes to sharing problems and solutions from one's own personal experiences but, if i were you, i'd not try to use them as a training ground. you'll retain more of what you learn when it comes from personal discovery than by being tutored.
with no esd protection? there are none. if you're going to build a custom rig, and i assume you'll be dropping big bucks, a five dollar esd wrist strap is a minimal investment. if you know how to protect your devices easier than that, how about sharing? i've been dealing with and teaching electronics since the 70s. esd will give you a bad day.
if you have access or can get these items: 1) esd floor mat(secretaries hard mat) 2) wear non-conductive clothing and boots 3) use reduction spray for lessen esd(starch based) 4) control the humidity(thermostat/humidifier) 5) ground yourself(touch metal to discharge) oh yeah, all of the above can be quickly and easily done by use of the wrist strap. there are disposble models now and overall, it does the job for 90% of the esd dangers. doing the above will definetly control the remaining 10% or garner the assurance of esd safety. read up on the topic. i suggest you google away. tada -----willy
hey guys. i guess what i was trying to get at was, is there anything that someone would find around the house that would help? like some sort of gloves or a certain material or something? i'm not sure which conduct static electricity and which don't that's why. i figured as long as i washed my hands and then sat down without moving around too much and maybe wearing a specific type of glove would prevent the discharge that's why.
if you do a lot of this stuff then get yourself a static strap. or you can do like i do; always touch the chassis to ground yourself before handling anything else. remember you are doing this at your own risk, hehe. good luck.
as from your original post you stated &quot;and please nothing like go out and buy anti static gloves and crap.&quot; ....and now you're asking about gloves?? i suspect you didn't bother to read my post. everything you need to know and more is a mouse click away right there. had you read from the first reply to your post, you'd know your own thinking wasn't on the mark.
i meant stuff mad specifically for that stuff. if that is the only way, i'll end up doing it. i am looking at stuff, i'm also doing here. that gives me more data to work with. it's like getting multiple opinions, common sense? yeah..
back in high school, i remember that when ever we worked on a pc in electronics class we use a static discharge wrist strap. also my teacher would have us ground the machine to the electrical outlet ground. he took old pc power cords and removed the positive and negative prongs. all the while leaving the ground prong alone. we also connect the wrist strap to the pc power supply. that way if we remove the power supply from the pc we will stay grounded. manmur
excuse me if i'm wrong but there are plenty of folks here whose interest is to see just how much conversation they can generate rather than be sincere in their quest for advice. when you actually plan to get this done?
back 'in the day' we went to great lengths to eliminate esd. after leaving 'the industry', in my home usage i make sure i take the basic precautions, although devices are much better protected (internally) than they used to be. when i work on pcs, i just wire my wrist to the ground lug on the outlet box, and make sure the pc is also connected to same. i never pick up a board/component unless both connections are made. about soldering irons - don't use the cheapos that are just the 2-prong versions.....think about it...there's 120v there, maybe the tip of the iron isn't quite neutral...use a good iron system (weller comes to mind) most good irons will have the tip connected to earth ground. the whole idea is that you & the board/computer are always at the same potential. keep in mind that most static is generated when you get up from your chair/desk etc...after you get up, don't touch anything unless/until you are again grounded.
