well i just recieved a new mother board and installed that with my new amd fx 60 and then to top it all off, i added the nvidia 8800gtx. now ,the first time the computer actually booted and i wanted to install windows but i deleted on of the partions( previous installtion of windows) and rebooted the computer. this is where all hell breaks lose. now when i try to turn on the computer, the lights, the fans and the hardrive are all on, but there is no animation on the screen. now i do have a 500 wat prowersupply, but so do a lot of people who own this including my brother! also it is above the requirment for the card, which is 450watts. suggestions... does anyone have any guess what i should do next instead of calling nvidia and my mother baord company (last resort)? do you think it has anything to do with deleting the partion on my hardrive of my previous windows? i find it odd that it wont boot but last time it did. thanks for your time and support.
not all psu's are created equal: what psu make & model? how many +12v rails and how many amps on each rail? what specific video card make & model? did you connect all the psu connectors it requires?
i think it may be my powersupply because my grpahics card fan does not trun on immedinatly when starttying the comuter usually like 5 seoncds or little bit mre beofre heard. i bought a 650 watt power supply that suports pci express and has two pins hopefully htis will help. thanks
wiat would this psu be good enough?
i must have 6 of these between home and office. while there is no way i would believe it could actually deliver 680, it does fine on the machines here. be sure it has the power leads your machine and components require. bob
example: the &quot;bfg tech bfgr88768gtxe geforce 8800gtx&quot; lists these psu requirements: 450w, combined 12v current rating of 30a or more the psu in your link only has 24a on one +12v rail. * * * * * there are many different 8800gtx video cards. what is the manufacturer and model name of your video card?
