if i have two 150gb drives in raid 0 can i mirror them to just one 500gb drive, or does it have to be a raid 0+1 or 1+0 set up with two drives in raid 0 and two drives mirroring them in raid 1?
1. raid 0 is not a mirror. that's striping. 2. &quot;two 150gb drives in raid 0 can i mirror them to just one 500gb drive,&quot; well, 2 times 150 is 300 here. how did you get to 500? 3. all this raid stuff is confusing to new owners. why not make your choice and &quot;do it&quot;?
you could setup the mirror via the os (vista or xp pro) but you'd be losing the speed of the existing striped volume. all onboard raid controllers that i know of would require 4 drives for a 1+0 setup.
1. i never said raid 0 was a mirror. the question was is it possible to mirror a raid 0 array onto just one drive or does it have to be four drives in raid 0+1 or 1+0. 2. these are the drives i have already. i understand that 300gbs is less than 500gbs. it is not really relevent to the question so long as one of the drives is large enofe to mirror the size of the smaller two together. 3. i asked the question so i would understand a little more about the subject so i could make a better choice on witch way to go. thanks for your reply.
it's now clear you are not using english. let's say you have an existing raid 0 you want to convert to raid 0+1. there is no documented method to do this because you have no details from what raid controller you are using today. if it is possible your documentation must tell you how. do not guess. read the fine documents and if you don't see it, then it doesn't offer such. bob
thank you this is just what i wanted to know. sounds like i should put the two 150s in raid 0 and use the 500 for the os and media files like music. just have to remember to make a back up every week or so. this will be a hardware raid. i am building a new game computer and have been looking up alot of things that iv never tryed before. my next questions will be on overclocking. i dont know enofe about it to have a question yet. maybe soon. thank you very much for your reply. it helped alot.
the question was is it possible to setup a 0+1 with only three drives, two in raid 0 and one in raid 1 with the first set. it is now clear to me that this is not possable. i do thank you for your replys. jason
