the on board sound on my ecs k7vta3 motherboard with amd xp 200+ quit working. i uninstalled it and disabled it in the bios and installed a sound blaster audigy se sound card. but no sound comes out of it. i have windows xp pro with service pack 2. window shows the sound blaster is installed and working properly with no conflicts. i tried a different set speakers and tried my speakers on an different computer and they work fine so i ruled out the speakers. i have been building my own computers for 7 years and this one has me stumped. creative was no help nor microsoft.
just one question...
motherboard driver version is 5.1.2600.0
review the audio driver at  (v6.0)&menuid=35&lanid=0 then see if there is a speaker type on the audio control panel. also that all settings are pushed up and not muted. if that fails, disable the onboard sound and install a pci sound card. sorry, i'll skip noting trying other speakers or which plug to put the speakers into. also will skip noting about using amplified speakers. bob
first thing i would try is to disable the onboard sound on the bios.
already did all of that. i disabled the on board sound in the bios before installing the sound blaster and uninstalled in windows. before doing that i downloaded the latest driver from ecs for the via sound that is on the motherboard and the on board sound still did not work. that is when i bought the sound blaster card. the version motherboard i have is 8. the system is about 4 years old. since the on board sound stopped working and the new card don't work even though is showed it is working properly that there might be something wrong in windows. oh yes i have powered speakers. when the on board sound quit working the error it had was that it failed to launch.
had the owner going for a month trying to install the audio drivers. but we had to install motherboard drivers and then they made progress. seems it's a good idea to put on your socks first then your sneakers. bob
sometimes when mixing old and new technology you will have to upgrade the chipset drivers(motherboard) then go in order that the chipset manufacture specifies in installing the drivers for optimal preformance. got to put your socks on before you put on your shoes. each drivers depend on one another you would install video drivers usualy before you would install sound drivers.
