&quot;amen donna - new! by prmath - 10/20/07 11:55 am in reply to: myth vs. reality: wireless ssids by donna buenaventura moderator ssid security is a pain in the tee-hiney. i never ever wep a customer unless they request me to do so. i understand a business or a crooked politician needing security, but common folks like us really don't need that much security........but make sure the firewall is on. do i care if anyone else uses my signal? not no...but heck no! most wi-fi routers can handle many connections without a problem. if you are so chinkey that you worry about your signal being used, then you need to go hide under the bed. if you are not wep'ed, any new computers or your friends will have no problems at your house..........i b gone&quot; sorry but you left out a real problem area for many. if you allowed someone to use your unsecured wifi they could use it to download movies, mp3s and more. then you are the one that would have to defend yourself when that mpaa, riaa call you. bob
i'm afraid that i must differ with donna somewhat on this issue. it's not that any of us necessarily want to deprive others, but let's face facts. there are evil people out there that given the chance, will do things with your unsecured bandwidth, that most of us would probably not approve of. as bob so correctly points out, when these people do the evil things that they will do with your unsecured bandwidth, the fine folks with the black suits and sun glasses, will show up on your doorstep, and you will be the poor sucker sitting in a windowless room answering unpleasant questions. sure, the feds will eventually figure out that you had nothing to do with said federal felony, but why expose yourself to the aggrivation, when reasonable wireles security is not that hard to implement?
this is the tips thread...
which forum?
&quot;wireless security by cyberdoc2k7 - 10/21/07 7:55 am in reply to: amen donna - repost... i'm afraid that i must differ with donna somewhat on this issue. it's not that any of us necessarily want to deprive others, but let's face facts. there are evil people out there that given the chance, will do things with your unsecured bandwidth, that most of us would probably not approve of. as bob so correctly points out, when these people do the evil things that they will do with your unsecured bandwidth, the fine folks with the black suits and sun glasses, will show up on your doorstep, and you will be the poor sucker sitting in a windowless room answering unpleasant questions. sure, the feds will eventually figure out that you had nothing to do with said federal felony, but why expose yourself to the aggrivation, when reasonable wireles security is not that hard to implement?&quot; broadcasting ssid is not a security issue (noted why in our tips sticky) but many continue to tell people to disable it. here's why we ask for the setup of broadcast ssid and wpa for your wifi setup today. the reason is a simple one in that many devices, laptops, etc. randomly drop the wifi connection if ssid is not being broadcast. also some if not all repeaters must have the ssid broadcasting in the wifi router (or more correctly the wap.) if you feel this is incorrect please take time to drop a note to every maker that has the drop issue so we could turn this off. -&gt; in the meantime i wonder how many get to collect a geeskquad &quot;ribbon&quot; for them to come out and turn it back on? and without security you can run afoul of the mpaa, riaa or other orgs you don't want to hear from. bob
oh, i agree disabling the ssid isn't really a security measure since it is so easy to obtain anyways. disabling it will potentially cause more problems than it solves. i don't care who knows my ssid because it is a random generated vaule, so it won't be in a pre-computed hash table [actually, i use wpa2 with an 802.1x authentication server, so i'm not vulnerable to the dictionary attack anyways. just so you know donna, i do not hide under my bed ] . unless i mis-read her post, it appeared that donna was advocating open wireless networks, and this i do differ with, for the stated reasons, and others.
frankly that is too dangerous to ones finance's today. defending against a mpaa/riaa lawsuit would not be fun. bob
ok, then i differ with prmat (sorry donna, my bad.), on this issue. yeah, that would get pretty ugly, pretty quickly. i would not want to be the intended target. the windowlees room just might be preferable.
