hard drive only works by itself in my computer. if i attach another ide hdd my computer does not recognise either of them. this problem only happens with this hard drive. any solutions please?
jumper settings on both drives you want to attach. the best way, with newer drives, is to use an 80 conductor cable and set jumpers to cs (cable select). the 80 conductor cable has a specific way it needs to be connected to the mb. the important thing to note is that the blue connector goes to the motherboard.
that you get all the cables and jumpers right. here's what you need to know. once in awhile you will find a drive that will not tolerate any second ide device. this may confuse the new to ide technician. after the initial shock and after encountering this a few more times it dawns on the tech that not all ide devices can coexist. yes they should but the awful truth is that a few don't. at least we have other solutions. i'll leave jumper and cable discussions out of my replies since that's been done many times and there are plenty of web pages about that. bob
hi i am the same person whom you answered in the win xp forum about the sata drivers. both hd's are ide when i plug in my maxtor hard drive with my cd both are recognised when i plug in my western digital hard drive with my cd drive neither are recognised however this hard drive is recognised by itself when the cd drive is not connected. so i feel that this one hard drive (western digital) which is only being recognised by itself has a problem. any solutions please. i tried using jumpers. i only have one ide connector. i need to get this working so i can install windows on it. please assist
this wd faulty hd worked as a slave in my other pc before. today i formatted it and was going to install windows and found that when i plugged in this hd, both ide connections were not being recognised
please help
i noted the usual and that jumpers and cables are widely documented. can you be more specific?
this wd faulty hd worked as a slave in my other pc before. today i formatted it and was going to install windows and found that when i plugged in this hd, both ide connections were not being recognised i don't understand why it should not work now. please help
parts do fail from time to time. folk get the jumpers wrong. some can't accept cable, jumper or hardware faults. remember that i elected to not write about cables or jumpers as that's been done. here's one thought. test each drive on its own. bob
as this pc works with other hard drives using the same cables i would expect it to work. i am quite sure that my jumpers settings are correct. do you need an more details. thanks
drives work on their own. no need to talk about cable and jumpers. i am sure they are correct. what would be the other cause please?
so would y?ou say that the hard drive is probably faulty
if the drives work one at a time but not together and you claim the cables and jumpers are fine then it's the usual problem i've seen over the years. why not put these two each on their own ide channel?
don't have another channel. i have other sata connectors but not another ide one
faulty drive works in a hard drive external enclosure
some techs can't wrap their head around that. and again the jumpers and cable types do matter. well discussed but no where did i find where you told exactly what you used. could be that issue i noted or could be the jumper and cable issues. but your posts omit details and i didn't duplicate web content on jumpers and cables. makes you wonder if it's one or the other usual issue. bob
yeah you are right. thanks for your help. this hdd was in my external enclosure and i attempted to install xp. computer shutdown with some error. i then booted into the hdd and it continued to install. last question. will this still be a successful install
sorry,no need to answer question thanks a lot
is when the machine is sata and can't emulate ide. then when we emulate ide the ide ports can become disabled. the vicious cycle begins. my lesson on this is simple. use an os that supports sata. yes there are procedures that use a floppy drive but what to do when the floppy drive is broke, missing and the owner won't fix that? bob
i don't know the model #s, size or age of your maxtor and wd drives but can tell you that i've never seen a specific jumper standard shared by all drive manufacturers or even between product lines from the same manufacturer. since you mentioned using a hd with a cd rom, i can tell you that this can often through a real monkey wrench into the works. be careful of &quot;master&quot; settings. some will allow that setting if only one drive is installed and some consider that the master jumper position means that a slave exists and you cannot use it with a single hd. what you need is the instructions from the manufacturer for each drive model to figure out their scheme. unfortunately the only experiences i've ever had with maxtor drives have been bad so i avoid them. i also avoid trying to mix drives from other manufacturers or even vintages. if one is older ide and one is called an eide, ultra ata, etc., i wouldn't mix them on the same cable. maybe if you know the hd model #s that might help dig up better information about what jumper settings are valid.
hi bob, just one question. if i have a faulty ribbon cable in a computer is it ok to swap it with another ribbon cable which fits in the computer and makes the computer work or would the new one spoil my computer. thanks, ac
pretty much a generic item. if you researched this you found 2 common models with 3 connectors and two ribbon cable types. if you use the older ribbon cable type the worst that could happen is the drive data is corrupted. the newer ribbon cable type can be used without issue except you have to set the jumpers and the drives must &quot;like&quot; each other. i covered the old tech stumper earlier about drives that never work on the same ide channel. this one has caused months of time lost for some techs. some can't wrap their head about that. bob
