on saturday, i had comcast high speed internet installed in my apartment. the modem i was given is a motorola surfboard sb5120 series, connected to my system via ethernet. a few hours after the installation, i headed out to best buy and purchased the linksys wireless-g broadband router, model no. wrt54gp2a-at. this went with this router specifically for its voip capabilities with at&t callvantage. after a weekend of tinkering, i've yet to be able to get it working. when my cable modem is connected to my computer, everything works fine, but when i add the router to the mix, i can not access the internet. initially i went through the linksys quick installation guide, step by step, power cycle to power cycle to get it going, but when i was finished and it was suppose to work, i would get the same t ppage cannot be displayed' message in ie every time. thinking i may have missed something in the process, i reset the router to its factory defaults, and tried to run the setup wizard provided by linksys on cd. i get towards the end every time, and then i receive an error message that the router is not able to connect to the internet, please turn the modem on/off, etc. i tried to setup the router manually, but my network administration abilities are a bit lacking. everything i found online seemed to indicate that for comcast, use the 'automatic configuration (dhcp)', then clone the mac address, and i would be good to go, but i've had no such luck. when the modem is connected to the router, and the router is connected to the computer: the power led, wan led, and ethernet port led are all lit and constant. the internet led, however, is flashing, as is the pc/activity led on the modem itself. here is my ip configuration when the modem is connected directly to the computer:  here is my ip configuration after initializing the router setup:  here is the router status:  is there something i'm overlooking? is this kind of configuration even possible with comcast? i've stumbled across a few threads on different forums from last year with people having the same problems, but i was not able to get it working. i've read through both of the documents from linksys below, but again i was unsuccessful.   i will be extremely grateful to anyone who can point me in the right direction... thank you.
this gets new owners everyday. the wifi router may not have the latest firmware, even when new. bob
i checked on the linksys site, but the option to download firmware for my router is 'grayed out', or in other words, not available. so i'm assuming that the firmware that was loaded straight out of the box is the most up to date...
some isp's require you do this or wait some number of hours. in closing, tell what the results of this command when the linksys is installed... ipconfig /all the 192.x.x.x addresses give no secrets aways since they are not internet addresses. bob
bob, just wanted to say thanks for your help. after i got off work, i tried to get the router configured with no avail. fed up, i decided to go to best buy and just purchase a new router, different brand. when i got the new d-link router back home, i was having the exact same problems. realizing that there was some kind of severe networking problem with my main machine i switched back over the linksys router and dug out the old pentium ii from the closet, and hooked it back up. i moved the cable modem over to that machine, then ran the default linksys router configuration program, and i nearly fell out of my chair when it worked on the first try. i re-installed my network drivers on my other computer and now everything's working beautifully. thanks again.
i had same problem 2x's,once with the b router and once with the a+g+b router.i ended up removing all hardware and software and starting over.then i called comcast and they made sure i connected when hooked up direct and then they told me turn off every thing modem router and computer,also the direct hook up to my omputer,then to wait 1 min, plug modem back in,then wait 1 min and plug router back in,then wait one min and turn computer back on and wireless works fine.i also had the wireless card in my computer and installed before i did the above. hope this helps you,if all else falls call comcast they were very helpfull. dan
the key is cloning your mac address and putting that into the router. that way, the router looks like your pc to the cable modem. at dos: ipconfig /all look at the physical address. that's your mac open up the router config screens by typing in the ip address of your router. forlinksys:  setup screen - mac address - click the 'clone' button or type in your mac address. save settings unplug modem unplug router hook up modem to router (ethernet cable) plug in modem - wait 30 secs for it to sync plug in router connect your pc to router should be good to go
i was just reading over your complaint and i have a client with the same problem. i can get him up and running for about a month them it drops his connection. i have found that att tech support is useless. why he gets dropped i do not know. there has to be something in the router's configuration.
t1 or such lines. the telco's charge for the more reliable connections. then again, have you changed out the router? bob
hi, i am experiencing the same problem. how do i reinstall the network drivers without reinstalling xp? i tried the mac address thing and it failed. so did three hours of customer support from linksys. thanks, rudy
what's your wan config info in your router?
how do i get the wan info? thanks, rudy
