i think hp is on a path to doom. just take a look at their pcs, who designs it? i would never buy such a ugly looking computer.  hate it or love it? roger
i was out circuit city today and saw them on display. they look really nice in the store but horrible on the web. they really need to fix those pictures.
i bought mine in early jan. this year, i love it. i wouldnt care if it was pink so long as it runs like it does.
an hp printer. it's a very efficient machine--but it's definitely not a fashion statement! the software that came with my printer was junk. the auto-update feature only worked once...after that, it was all error messages, etc. no one at the company ever replied to any of the email inquiries i sent them. eventually, i just decided to shutdown/remove all their software and get by with basic drivers. everything works just fine now. based on recent threads, i'd never buy a laptop from hp/compaq (badly designed/constructed, overheating problems, etc.) and i'd approach their desktops with caution. hp probably won't be of any help to you if you have a problem (or get a lemon), so you'll have to be ready to return it quickly--or fix it yourself. if you get a good one, it will be a deal...but it will never be a fashion statement! -jdm
if you like bells&whistles, etc. maybe it won't cut it. i've seen some pretty niffy setups and other generic cases that people can buy get way out of hand with thier styling which doesn't appeal to me. you would think some of them were too close to a heat source or that holes everywhere is proper. basically, you get what you like and feel comfortable with, but i tend to stick with function over form. enjoy -----willy
never thought they were ugly....who can really see it way down on the floor...tucked away on the side of my desk? however, i just got the latest media center (n7060m) and i am not impressed. lotsa software loading problems. and networking with my other gateway was very difficult. i ended up with a circuit city pc guru making a house call to network them. plus, xp dvd discs back-up has failed 3x. but, i'm stuck with it...and so, i'll be calling hp and circuit city for some time to come.
