hello, everyone. there's new hardware now, compared to when i first got into the hardware aspect of computers, and it confuses me. for instance, in this image of a motherboard,  what are those two white slots between the black and blue slots? in addition, what are the black/blue slots? down and left of the black heat sync, there are four slots; what are they? is that big red thing another weird-shaped heat sync? what is up with all the different power supply connectors? some (like on this mb) have twenty pin (2x10) connectors on one area of the motherboard, and another four pin (2x2) connector (here, at the top right, near the processor). some have just twenty, and some have twenty four and another four! it's confusing... how can people expect their power supply to work on a motherboard, unless they carefully check? one other curiosity of mine; why do these new power supplies need the extra four pins (and why separate)? thanks, good day. -christopher
that's the longest url i've seen yet on these forums. maybe next time you can do a &lt;carraige return&gt; or two so we don't have to search for the rest on our walls or someplace. here you go..everything you ever wanted to know about this motherboard and were afraid to ask...  and life goes on... jack
anyways a) the small ones are pcie x1 slots b) the large ones are pcie x16 slots, for sli c) 20pin + 4pin has been the standard for atx power since the year 2000 with the introduction of the pentium 4, the 24-pin is just to provide even more power d) most psu's ship as 20+4 or 24+4, none ship w/o the extra 4-pin e) yes the red thing is a specially shaped heatsink for the asus board, it's just an asus design (i have an abit that has the nb hs actually cut so that it says abit from certain angles (abit vt7)) f) those blue connectors are serial ata or serial ata ii, and have been around for a while also, that board uses ddr2 (just fyi) and features the new lga 775 &quot;socket&quot; t interface for intel pentium 4 and pentium d processors also if you notice, that board has the following for power input: 1 24-pin atx connector 1 4-pin atx connector 1 4-pin molex connector any other questions?
yeah, sorry about that... i didn't even realize it was that long - i had just copied/pasted from the address bar to my post. for some reason, i figured the url would automatically wrap, but i guess not. i will make sure to carraige return in the future. thanks for the help.
a detailed motherboard map is in the manual on p. 2-3 (acrobat reader navigation page 29) p5nd2-sli deluxe manual (warning!!! 6.2mb pdf):
