hi all. i was wondering if there was any utility within windows xp, windows vista, or os x to monitor overall network and/or internet bandwidth distribution. more specifically, which applications are using how much of my connection to download anything. if there aren't any provided with the operating system, would there be any third-party applications?
if you have only one computer and you want to determine what applications are using the most bandwidth then just load the ethereal sniffer on that machine. it is free and provides some bandwidth and conversation analasys tools. if this is a shared connection then insert a hub between the dsl modem and the router. a cheap switch will not work. it has to be a hub or a managed switch that supports &quot;port mirroring&quot;. you can use ethereal the same as before to monitor the total bandwidth being used and which applications use the most/least. skrall
you can use the msft performance console. control panel, performance and maint., admin tools, dbl-click performance. the 3 default parameters will be running. r-click the console and select add counter. under performance object dropdown list, select network interface. it should show all network interfaces on the right. scroll the list on the left to select the current bandwidth and click add. after you add it you can r-click it in the list of counters at the bottom and select a custom display color.
try this little program called bandwidth vista at  its free and free of junk such as adware and spyware and i think it will do the job you need done. i use it and so does several co workers and its gotten pretty good reviews from everyone. hope this helps.
opened control panel but where is performance and maint.? there is an admin tools but nothing in there that resembles what you indicate.
try again. open control panel open administrative tools open performance click the + button open the performance object sub menu select network interface follow the directions from darton fury
that's becaue you're in classic view. you can still get to the same point. just open control panel; then go to administrative tools; then performance. after that, you can follow the earlier instructions.
ok to &quot;+ button&quot;. click on that and i get three subs: coumter logs (system) - trace logs (empty) - alerts (empty). where is this &quot;open the performance object sub menu select network interface&quot;?
nope - tried both views, after i click on &quot;performance&quot;, i get system monitor and the before mentioned performance logs and alerts. nowhere is there a mention of ant type of net use.
okay, try this 3rd way: hit ctl-alt-del. click on the task manager button. click on the networking tab. this will give you a real-time track of your network utilization. hope this is what you need.
