i use 3 external storage drives: 1 - western digital (wd) passport 250gb 2 - hp simple save 500 gb 3 - apple ipod nano 4gb i have 2 computer which i will name: 1 - old pc 2 - new pc -both running on windows 7 ultimate i use these 3 on separate occasions and they've worked fine for months on the old pc. then, i purchased another one and was also able to use the same drives for a couple of weeks. then one day, (out of nowhere), the pcs failed to recognize the wd hard drive. when i plug it in, the light on the wd would turn on, and the pc balloon &quot;usb not recognized&quot; would pop up. the next day, both the hp and the nano also became unrecognizable. i don't recall installing any new software/etc. nor dropping the hard drives or getting them wet or whatever. i tried plugging them in on several other computers, and the same problem: usb device not recognized. a few days after, i observed that my new pc also became faulty. it would have blue screens every now and then, or sometimes when i start up, windows explorer would hang. now, i've tried scanning for viruses using different software, getdataback program also won't recognize them, and have tried using tune-up-utilities and uniblue powersuite but to no avail. . the computer still had problems, and the drives are still unrecognizable. i had a friend (who's good with computers) check my pc and he said that the new pc probably had hardware problems since it had static when he opened the casing. but he had no idea regarding the status of my hard drives and couldn't really say if it was caused by the new pc problems. i'll be sending the pc back to where i bought it to have it fixed but for now i'd just like to know if: -is this directly related to the my hard drives becoming unrecognizable? -if not, what's wrong with them? -how can i fix them and save not only the hard drives (which cost a lot of money) but my files as well? note: *western digital - &quot;usb not recognized&quot; balloon pops up when plugged in. - light turns on. no clicking sound (i've read in other threads that theirs have clicking sounds but mine doesn't so i guess that's a good thing. - device manager: under usb controllers - unknown device (updating the driver won't work since the computers says it's up to date. tried uninstalling then installing, no use). - device status (under unknown device properties): &quot;windows has stopped this device because it has reported problems. (code 43)&quot; - disk management: not detected. *hp simple save - no pop-up balloon. as if it wasn't plugged in. - light turns on. no clicking sound. - device manager: not detected. - disk management: not detected. *ipod nano - no pop-up balloon. as if it wasn't plugged in. - not recognized by itunes. - will work as an mp3 player, but won't charge or can't be recognized when plugged into the computer. this is very odd and frustrating. i hope someone can shed some light on my dilemma. i wouldn't want to buy hard drives or replace my nano since that would cost me a lot!! and my files are also important.
first thing to do: get the disk out of the enclosure into a new one. see if that works on a third pc. if so, the disk and the data are saved for some usd 20. that's cheap. now make a backup of that data on dvd or another hard disk. that's safe. repeat three times for three disks. kees
thanks for the quick response. that might work but take for instance the ipod nano. i can't buy another case for that.. any other thoughts?
if it's damaged in such a way that it doesn't even function in any other pc or mac (not even after a reset) you need repair or (most likely) replacement. kees
what do you mean by reset? how can i do that?
1. try it on a third pc. 2. still broken? buy a new one or have the old one repaired. kees
i'm using a wd passport 320gb and a seagate 160gb and know how frustrating it gets. i encountered this problem a while back and seriously there was no problem with the hard drives. the problem was actually in the form of a faulty usb hub. the clicking sound as you mentioned is nothing but low voltage. due to it, there is not enough voltage to make the disk run and the disk tends to restart. as for non-detection of ext-hdd's it is a minor glitch that is taken care of by rebooting, provided that your pc hasn't stayed on for long. even your problem still persists, firstly remove all related device drivers (this should be pretty simple if you are using win 7). reboot it again and check. if you still get the errors open the cabinet and and check whether the usb cables connecting on the motherboard. these are the only things i could come up with since i had the same type of problem and got it fixed - while doing hardware changes, the cable for usb was left lose. i hope it works out for you. right now i'm facing a similar kind of problem but it is with the ext-hdd and my lcd tv... it detects pendrives, but not ext-hdd... i wonder why... tell me when you have a breakthrough...... pruthvibhushan@yahoo.co.in
i agree with pruthvibhushan. that clicking is low voltage. i'm taking it that your &quot;old pc&quot; is running 1.0 usb, which doesn't have the power for newer externals. add to that, your power supply hasn't the umph to push out the juice (so to speak). why it stopped working all of a sudden could be anything. you're running updates to programs which blow past your old drivers & usb's, to you having too much of a load on the house outlet/aps/ups. why your &quot;new pc&quot; is having problems with these drives may be an issue with the drive, i agree. on your &quot;new pc&quot; is it a completely new pc, or an older tower/case? why i ask is if you plug your front connections into a new board (mother), from an old tower/case, those leads are still old, not new. i have that issue with the one tower i use. all of my externals are plugged into the rear, alone. additionally, you shouldn't run externals (drives) off a hub. they require a separate power supply, as well as usb. that is, they don't like to share. which is good, in the event that data crosses paths. don't laugh, it happens (less now than long ago). i'd look into the computers on hand first. perhaps your drives are mislabeled between computers? when i swap externals, it is registered to that computer with the same letter, if, i'm going to be doing a bunch of serious file saving & swapping. but this is more for different os versions, when i'm running anything less than ntfs on the external. please let us know the outcome.
