somewhere i think i heard it is just a software update? thank you, billy
if there is a sofware update, you'll find it noted at  but the only reason i think the urban legend lives on is that we all wish it was a pure software update. if you have a desktop, usb 2.0 cards start at under 10 bucks at newegg.com and compgeeks.com best of luck with that! bob
this may be bad form to interject like this, but i am impressed w/your responses i've read (on numerous forums--don't you ever sleep?). you appear to know what you're talking about, you're concise, and able to keep it understandable. even i can understand most of your responses. while i don't imagine you're in it for the recognition, i think you deserve a &quot;thanks&quot; for services rendered. consider this one.
i do sleep. and i use mozilla that helps automate loading up about 1/2 the forums with just 2 clicks. then it's a breeze to see what's up in the forums i read. i'm able to look around inbetween programming, design sessions and ... meetings. bob
could anyone tell me what is involved in the upgrade. usb1 to usb2 the reason for upgrade is to allow me to transfer my old camcorder films to cd or dvd via &quot;dazzle digital video creator&quot; software which is still to be purchased. thank you ian
you need to open your computer's case to find out if you have an empty pci slot. your usb 2.0 card will come in the form of a pci card that you insert into an unused pci slot in your computer's motherboard. after you insert the card, start up your computer. you need to install the software driver that came with the card. if the card came with no driver, windows will find your card and may try to install a software driver for you. if you need a driver, go to the card manufacturer's website and download a driver to install. the best thing to do is follow the instructions that come with your pci usb 2.0 card.
even if you don't have an empty pci slot, you can get a usb 2.0 combo card. i think your computer has 3 pci slots. if they are all filled and one of them has, say, a pci network interface card in it, you can replace your pci network interface card with a combo card that has usb 2.0 ports and a network cable port. also, if you like to plug devices into the front of your computer instead of the back, get a card with an internal usb 2.0 port on it. this will allow you to run a usb 2.0 connection to the front of your computer with ease. i see you use a camcorder. if you purchase a new camcorder, it will likely have use a firewire (ieee 1394) output to make a direct connection to your computer. so you might want to consider a ''pci usb 2.0 and ieee 1394 combo card'' with internal usb and firewire ports. as an example, the following card has three external usb 2.0 and one internal. it also has two external ieee 1394 and one internal:
i am so sorry... thanks so much for your note. now if... i could just cut back on the meetings....
thank you very much for the information ian
