i am having a problem with one of my first computer builds. it is all old parts; i am building outside the case to test the main components: the cpu (w/ heatsink & fan), the memory, the graphics card, and the power supply. when i short the two pins to power up the computer, the cpu fan runs fine; however, my video card (pcie) does not work. i have tried multiple video cards too, so i believe this is not the problem of the video card. i think the problem may be with the power supply, because when i plug in a video card that has worked in other pcs previously, its fan does not even run. i am just looking for someone to point me in the right direction. might i need a new power supply? what is the best method to troubleshoot this kind of issue? thanks in advance for any and all help.
and if not, how about another motherboard? in other words, what spare parts do we have. if none, you can't troubleshoot this. bob
fortunately, i work in a place of abundant spare computer parts. my first instinct was to try out other parts to attempt to isolate my bad part, but having never done this before, i was unsure. i'll give that a try. thanks!
take a good machine and put the suspect part (singular) in. if no video it's that part or that part is misconfigured. examples? sure but since i can't see the machine i can't guess if these are good or bad guesses. ready? 1. the atx12v is unplugged. 2. the motherboard is one where the manual has the typographic error about the hdd led connection. there was many thousands of boards that came back but were fine if they unplugged that connection (or read the updated manual.) 3. the cmos battery is low. 4. the cmos clear jumper is on &quot;clear.&quot; lots of reasons, too many for me to list them all but i thought i'd share my hit parade from last month. bob
nothing will work without memory. if your memory is good and compatible with your motherboard you should get output on the monitor. (if the monitor is good.) a good test is to disconnect everything except for the motherboard (with memory), power supply, keyboard and monitor. you should hear p.o.s.t. (beeps once. if it beeps more than once there could be some other problem.) if everything is working properly you should see at the very least the bios message on the monitor. from there you can begin adding one part at a time until you hit the faulty part. hope this helps.
