i'll try to make this short. i bought a digital camcorder and realized that i don't have a dvd burner on my desktop comp. i purchased a mad dog external dvd burner 18x dual format that i have not connected yet. my computer only has usb 1 ports. i have been lead to believe that the dvd burner will be real slow unless i use usb 2. i bought a usb2/ firewire pci card at radio shack. after plugging it in the slot, the directions say to plug in the power supply to the card into the small 4 prong receptacle on the card. no power cord was supplied nor are there any that seem to be unused in my computer. there is a power plug unused that has 4 inline receptacles but that configuration would not match the 4 small square receptacle on the card. is there a plug available for me to buy to power this card? does it connect to that unsed 4 inline plug that is available in my pc? is there a usb2 pci card that doesn't need a power supply?
your power cable/cord should be an 'unused' one from the system's power supply. if you don't have an extra one or one that matches, then you need to buy one. however, you offered no info on the usb/firewire card, what model it is. if it is a typical system power connector required, you can get a 'y-cable' which splits one power lead into two, found at many computer suppliers, but this is a guess on my part. just be sure to follow the install instructions, take that with you to rs maybe they got what you need or ask for more info. if none of this helps with that rs product return it, it useless, get a more generic usb2.0 pci card, if you need firewire, a combo pci card from another source. tada -----willy
for less than usd$40, you could install an internal dual layer dvd burner that will be faster than any usb burner. no extra pci card needed.
if so, yeah it doesn't appear to come with any extra items. if that connecter on the rear portion is like one on your hd power connection, get a y-cable. if like the one for the floppy drive, get one that matches, again as a y-cable, with dual type connection, fd and hd type. hope this helps. tada -----willy
willy, yes that is the card. as i said, there is an unused 4 pronged inline plug available but that would not fit the card nor even reach it. i am hoping rs has the plug available when i go back. thanks for the help. as for the internal dvd vs external, i wrestled with that but went with an external ( even though they are more expensive) because i have 2 other computers ( a laptop and another desk top) neither of which has a dvd burner, so i figured i would be able to use the 1 burner for 3 computers. plus my main pc s almost 4 yrs old so i might soon need to buy a new one anyway. thanks for the replies.
