have a dial up connection on a pii system with win 98. i can go on line and everything operates normally, but after a while i cannot go into new pages...always get an error message. if i close down the connection and then reload, the system again works normally. i recently removed a trojan worm and do not know if this is a residual problem or if my modem is beginning to fail. any advice?
you left out what may be the vital clue. always share a &quot;quoted&quot; error message without typographic errors. since you had a trojan, it's possible that the os suffered damaged. you will have to eject all parasites, run iefix and supply that error message. if you use kazaa, imesh or such computer unfriendly programs, don't expect anything to ever fix it. we call those machines &quot;kazaa'd.&quot; it's a codeword that means a lot. light reading:   optimizing windows at  at the moment, i don't see a hardware issue. i do see that some behaviour should be changed since it allowed the trojan on the machine. find and help that user to not catch such, what can be devastating bugs. bob
ran iefix with no error message, and i have never downloaded kazaa or it's ilk. actually, i used the wrong term when i said &quot;error message&quot;. i am actually getting the normal timed out message on all pages i try to enter, but if i restart the modem connection i am able to operate normally. i also use a fully updated and activated version of nav 2002 and no one else has access to my machine. i do not open .exe files from anyone unless i am expecting them. can only assume trojan got on machine while surfing news or retailer sites, but don't know why nav didn't alert me.
all i can offer is that page timeouts are discussed in prior discussions. your new post &quot;actually, i used the wrong term when i said &quot;error message&quot;. i am actually getting the normal timed out message on all pages i try to enter, but if i restart the modem connection i am able to operate normally.&quot; again didn't supply any error message that points to anything specific. since nav doesn't do parasites, and you didn't write what you do about such, your work and reply is incomplete. best of luck, bob
get your hands on the pgm. called, &quot;trojan remover&quot; of the same name. update it and allow it to work, you have demo use of it for 30-days. also, beware that av pgms. aren't as adapt to catch all trojans as other malware, but some. of course the latest threats can sneak by and do thier dirty work. if you haven't already try an &quot;online scan&quot; of other popular av pgms. like trendmicro, rav, mcafee, etc. the results good or bad can be enlightening. good luck -----willy
