i upgraded my 60mb hard drive to a 200mb; how do i transfer all my data to the new hard drive. i realize that having two hard drives don't hurt but my system boots from the 60mb drive and i would rather have everything boot from the 200mb drive. i'm a diy so i'm trying not to go to a tech center. can this be done? do i need two computers to accomplish this? system info... compaq presario s4120wm windows xp home edition mobo am37 fic amd athlon xp 2600+ 2.1mhz 512mb ddr ram
did your new drive come with any kind of cloning software? if so, run it and it will copy everything from the 60 to the 200. if not, tell us the brand of drive and we can probably find what you need are you sure it's meg and not gig?
windows xp home edition has the 127gb limitation which you must obey since there is an issue you don't want to learn about first hand. go ahead and clone the drive but don't increase drive c past 127gb. if your machine came with windows xp home edition sp1 or windows xp home edition sp2 then this is not an issue. bob
you can use special cloning software to move all content (including os, data and all your apps) to a new hdd. e.g. acronis migrate easy. you can trensfer all content form old hd to a new bigger one and me creates proportional partitions,you can also change the size, delete or create new partitions.
what are you talking about (127gb limit with xp)? my c: drive is 500gb, my d: drive is 250gb, and i have no issues with xp at all. i think someone has been pulling your leg.
make your new hard drive as a master and install the system in this driver and place the 60 mb o gb as an slave and then you copy the information onto the bigger drive
keep windows on the 60gb one and just add your new drive. then use your new drive as a media and documents drive since i'm sure that's what you plan on using it for. i personally think you'll be much happier having windows and the programs on its own drive and data on the other.
most likely the new drive is a faster drive than the old 60gb. so i would definitely use acronis to copy the drive. us the entire 200 gb for c and use the 60 gb as storage for things you dont access often and for things you really want to keep. if xp ever, god forbid, does crash your pictures and documents will be safe on the 60 gb drive. as for master and slave. making both discs cable select is the easiest.then you can change the drive letter in acronis or in xp by way of control panel/administrative tools/computer management/ disk management. good luck
has full details. i strongly suggest you catch up with this old initial version of xp. it didn't do usb 2.0 either! bob
bob; i wasn't aware of any win xp home limitation on hard drive size (my win xp-equipped laptops' drives have all been less than 120gb.) for my last desktop, a win98se machine, i purposely stayed at 120mb for a replacement drive but i had thought that the windows xp service packs 1 & 2 took care of that. (  seems to imply that.) or are you saying that geehon1999 has a pre-service pack edition of xp? - 'appreciate all your help in answering all these posts - i learn a lot.
the issue is simple. since xp (no sp1 or 2 on the cd) does not support over 127gb boot drives i have to issue a warning when &quot;xp&quot; is noted. imagine the poor soul that uses clone software and expands the c drive to over 127gb then they need to repair the os. you can imagine what happens next. the xp cd can't touch that drive and we have no way to add over 127gb support to said cd. yes there is that slipstreaming method but for most that's the deep end of the pool where the crocs live. bob
each hard manfacture has data transfer software.one drive must be from the manfacture,(the other does't matter) of the software used ie western digital data lifegard maxtro has there's ect.free for personal use.i've used both and they the size limitations.
