okay, i have several questions and please read them carefully. i did a system scan at  and they gave me listing of memories. since that place do not accept bml payment method, i went to browse at a popular stores that accept bml payment method. this is the only memory that i've found at the other stores that seem to match the one given at  please clear this up for me. one of the recommended memories is this...  the other two stores also have this...   are the memory from these two stores the exact same as the one shown from crucial? another question... why is tigerdirect selling it so much cheaper than newegg? common sense to price this specific memory is about 65 to 75 buxs. tigerdirect is selling the memory for 43 buxs. i've sent emails to all three places and i'm still waiting on them to respond. hopefully, someone can respond quicker on here. is this a good, trusty brand - ballistix? thanks! thunder
i still did not get a response from those three sites and i thought someone would help me on here very quickly.... no one is helping... i just lost today, because i doubt they will ship it out today and the weekend is approaching and it will force me to wait until next week. i'm gonna go ahead and order it with quickie shipping. thunder
crucial ballistix is a line of ram for computer modders (overclockers). it is pc4000 ram operating at 500mhz and 2.8v. i seriously doubt that the compaq bios will allow for any significant overclocking, if it allows it at all. if you are installing it in a compaq presario pc s4020wm , it will clock down to operate at pc2100 speeds (133mhz) because that is the fastest speed the motherboard supports. all the ram listed at crucial.com for that computer is *compatible* but will only run at the 133mhz speed, so there's no bonus for spending more money on fast ram. my advice: don't spend extra cash on fast ram for that computer. just get the inexpensive pc2700 (ddr333) or pc3200 (ddr400) 512mb ram module that has the same voltage as your existing 512mb module and is from a good manufacturer (kingston, crucial, corsair should be fine). see if this matches your existing ram's voltage.  from time to time, i see rebate special 512mb pc3200 kinston ram for 29.99 (fry's, staples, etc.). * * * * * download and run cpu-z to learn the details regarding your currently installed ram.
thank you for responding! i checked that link you provided and found that the memory is still 2.8v, regardless of being pc3200. i did read on the site that the memories are backward-compatible, meaning they all will adjust themselves out. i'm curious on why are both the 3200 and 4000 have the same 2.8v power? since you said to be caution about getting the 4000, i went one level down and it is 3200. crucial recommend this...  512mb, ballistix 184-pin dimm, ddr pc3200 memory module the link you provided looks to be a fit for my computer. i just want to be clear on some things. thanks! thunder
i'm gonna go with the pc3200, so it doesnt blow up my machine... i think this is the one you showed me (or similar).  another one, price a lil higher.  these are the same brand name, but they have xms. what is that?   is it important to get the heat spreader feature? here some more. these are from kingston.     sorry, this is the first time to worry about this. lol several years ago, when i bought a 256 mb, all i did was ask someone at the store on which one would work and i bought it. lol i have a 256 and 128 sticks. i'm taking them both out and having two of 512. also, i'm seeing some 512 in pairs... are they like bundle, two at a cheaper price, or are they for like dual something? or should i just buy 2 of 1 stick? thunder
the 2.8v module shouldn't blow up your machine, but it may cause bsod errors if you use it with a 2.5v or 2.6v module look at the timing or &quot;cas latenciy&quot; in the specifications for each module. lower numbers are faster and cost more, but that still won't matter on your computer. cas latencies of 3 or 2.5 are usually the less expensive value ram--perfect for your rapidly aging computer. heat spreader? not important unless overclocking. (you don't need it.) what is xms?  (you don't need it.) ram is sold in pairs because there is an advantage to some systems that are capable of using modules in &quot;dual channel mode.&quot; if the motherboard supports dual channel mode, then the two similar memory modules will operate in tandem to combine their bandwidths, which increases performance. crucial.com indicates that your computer isn't capable of dual channel operation, so you don't have to worry about getting matched modules. a dual channel kit often means that there are two modules that have been tested to operate properly in dual channel mode. if you are planning on purchasing two 512mb modules, try to get two of the same exact model. this is not required, but helps to avoid the potential of two vastly different modules that just won't play well together. whether you purchase them in a two module kit or two separate modules shouldn't matter, especially since your computer isn't capable of dual channel mode. also you could purchase one 512mb module and add it to your 256mb module. 768mb should be enough for xp if you are not a gamer. save the rest of your money for a new computer.
thanks for sticking with me on this thread. how do i look at the timing or cas latenciy for each module? what module? you're talking about the memory slots? could you narrow down the list of memories i provided on here for me? it is easier for me to decide. i'm not worried about the price. i just want a list of choosen memories from you that i've provided up above, starting with the best (with reason why for each memory). i do not want to think my computer is aging fast. lol i never have a problem with it. i just need more memory, because i'm doing more and more things. i'm sure this machine will be with me for a long time. when it fails, i will buy another computer and my mother told me to pick what i want. lol if she want to pay for it, then i'll pay her back. that'll happen later in the future. thunder
is this what you was wanting to know? smbios 2.3 thunder
linkit is giving you good information. faster ram than the manufacturer calls for will not speed up your system any more than putting 200mph capable tires will make a stock chevy vega into a racing machine. it's speed will remain the same. check your bios for a ram setting referring to spd. this is a chip on the memory module that provides it's capabilities to the mb so the ram can be automatically configured. if your system (and most will be) are spd capable, your bios will configure the ram for best performance. you are free...at your own risk....to override the automatic settings. my preference would be to always get two sticks rather than one. buy double what the os and applications state to be minimum requirements. one reason to buy two sticks is that, if one fails or gets quirky, you can run on one stick to troubleshoot and keep your system operational. also remember that, if you increase your ram, windows will increase the size of the page file (virtual memory). i have never figured out the logic to this. i tend to manually trim back the page file size as it takes up more total disk space. that's probably not an issue for most but it increases the time needed to back up my system using the scheme i have in place.
thanks. i'm not looking for speed. its really fast as it is right now. more speed would be nice, if that happens. i'm really interested in having more memory so i can have many applications and windows opened at the same time without a problem of few seconds lag or freezes when having too many opened/running at the same time. your information helps too. i'm in process of looking for a manual online and will try to see if i can get someone thru live support from compaq. thunder
i have total of 384 mb. on average, i have about 100 to 190 mb available. running zone alarm brings it down considerably, especially the top package i have. plus, it brings down memory greatly when running photoshop 7.0. playing games online is a factor too. it does get down to 50 to 80 mb frequently. occasionally, it gets down much lower than that. i uses freeram xp pro and it helps alot on maintaining the memory. right now, at the time of writing this, it is at 105 mb. i only have aol 9.0 security edition software opened, which is always, because i like accessing emails so quickly and not having to login frequently. i go to webpages on aol more faster then opening explorer. yes, i'm on cable. yes, i still use explorer. yim is on right now with two conversation boxes opened. zone alarm is off. just these running and my memory is at 105 mb. lol thunder
i browse on aol to conserve memory, so i dont have two different applications running, aol and explorer. thunder
i mentioned &quot;cas latency&quot; because you wanted to know why there was a price difference between two seemingly similar ram modules (sticks of memory) offered by newegg. if you click on the links you posted and click the &quot;specificatinos&quot; tab that describes the memory product, you will see that lower cas latencies are more expensive than higher cas latencies. the type of memory your computer takes is ddr266 (the higher the number the faster the speed). since ddr memory is backwards compatible, you can install newer and faster ddr modules such as ddr333, ddr400, and ddr500. the big point you need to understand is that that your motherboard determines how fast a memory module will run in your computer. your motherboard's memory speed limit is ddr266; therefore, all those faster memory types will work but the motherboard will force them to run at ddr266 speed. the reason crucial.com offers you ddr400 (pc3200) and ddr500 (pc4000) modules for your computer is that it's compatible with your ddr266 (pc2100) computer and they no longer carry pc2100 ram modules. they aren't offering it to you because you will reap some speed benefit. read this:  yes, in terms of computers, yous is rapidly aging and is many generations behind today's computers. aging, however, doesn't mean useless. i still use some computers older than yours. if you want to reach 1gb (the max your computer can hold), then get something like this:  that's two 512mb modules of inexpensive ddr400 (pc3200) ram from a good company. i made sure the specifications for the module stated 2.6v.
i just got off the phone with a great tech support from compaq. he told me that the motherboard supports pc2100 and told me not to waste my money by buying any higher/faster, because the motherboard will only bring the speed down to the limit. got that covered. i understand what you meant by aging. the tech mentioned that in similar term as well. he was saying that all the computers being made today are having windows vista and alot more specs that it makes my computer seem &quot;so anicent&quot;. i told him that this computer have been with me for 4 years and i'm not about to betray this computer. i will stick with this computer until something dies, then i will get another computer. only thing that i'm going to do with this computer is upgrading the memory. he also recommend that i do not put 1024 mb of ram onto the computer, even tho it will support that much, so it does not put a strain on the system resources. something like that. he recommended that i only buy one of 512 and keep the 256, which totals to 768 mb. i'll look into that link you provided. i'm going to think about it and see if i want to go ahead and install 1024 mb of ram or save a little money by buying one 512 mb pc2100. you have helped greatly and i thank you for that. yes, the tech have said the same thing. crucial does not carry pc2100 anymore, so thats why i was given the higher compatibles. i'm going to see what i can find on the pc2100 at newegg and tigerdirect. if nothing, then i'll go browse the pc3200 and consider your link. i'm thinking that your suggestion is more likely, that way i have all the ram, just in case, as a buffer, so i dont get too low on ram. i doubt that i would be maxing out that limit. thunder
pc2100 is in less demand, so you might think that it costs less; but it doesn't because there is not a large supply of new modules, and it's more costly for vendors to carry it. today, pc3200 is usually least expensive because there is still a lot of it around and is backwards compatible with slower ddr. putting it another way, the one-size-fits-all product is less expensive. just get whatever is least expensive from kingston, crucial, corsiar, pny. it's usually called &quot;value&quot; ram and costs about $40 today. you will see rebate specials on this from time to time at $29. the cheapo 512mb pc3200 module from compusa should also do just fine--just return it if it doesn't work. you're correct--you can always purchase a second 512mb module later if the need arises. * * * * * you wrote: &quot;he also recommend that i do not put 1024 mb of ram onto the computer, even tho it will support that much, so it does not put a strain on the system resources.&quot; response: 1gb ram shouldn't put a strain on system resources. in fact, with windows xp it should do the opposite by relieving system resources (namely the use of your hard drive for virtual memory). this is especially true if the computer is using integrated video circuitry and not a dedicated video card.
i probably said it wrong. i forgot most of what was said on in the chat session. i'm waiting on the transcript to be sent. anyways, thanks so much. thunder
guess what i saw. lol pc2700 what you think? thunder
i take it you mean that you found a 512mb pc2700 (ddr333) memory module from a quality manufacturer for a good price. that should be compatible. just make sure the vendor has a return/exchange policy if it there's a problem.
i'm comparing prices with the ones you shown me with others i've found that is similar. i'm checking with shipping fees as well. browsing at other possible stores. just checking on the prices, basically. lol sorry for all the hassles. it really takes quite some time and effort to get it all in my head and to start understanding things more and more. you have patience and i appreciate that. i know how you feel. i've taught asl in college along with my interpreter, which she was an instructor for asl 1 and 2 classes in college. i helped her teaching the classes and i helped students out of classes and i've taken over her classes as well. i know how patience is important and rewarding. you're a good person. thunder
one thing. did we discuss this? buffered/unbuffered registered/unregistered i think the tech guy at compaq said something about it, but i dont remember. thunder
i've decided to go with this. buying two of these is still cheap price. there isnt much difference between higher/lower. shipping for 1 is 19 buxs overnight. shipping for 2 is 20 buxs overnight. both is about 100 buxs in total with rush processing as well. it seem great to me with the price. the reviews and name brand made me more comfortable.  thunder
sounds good. i've installed kingston valueram in lots of computers like yours and never had a problem. good luck!
its sad that cnet wants to close a thread. thunder
they don't want to close it. it's just the technology they use in the forum. explanation: maximum thread layers
interesting. i'm gonna go read it. yeah, they need to change the board completely to something more commonly used. thunder
sold out! getting one that is exactly the same, but cas3. ~sighs~ thunder
asking us to help you choose the solution at the which part to buy level. hardware systems and operating systems are optimized differently ...some chipsets have max addressable ram limits and so do some oss so knowing what pc system or motherboard you have, what os you're running and what you're using the pc for often helps us help you better. vapcmd ps...when you buy from crucial specifically for your motherboard or brand make/model pc...they guarantee compatability. if you buy essentially the same ram (same spec) from any etailer usually under another part number... crucial doesn't warrant compatability. you can always return or exchange the ram with the etailer but who wants to go thru that? ps....what's &quot;bml&quot; ... bill me later ? ps2...i've used aol and observed it used a lot of ram....you might be better off browsing without it.
i did have one dimm from a kit fail. sent the kit back to corsair and they replaced promptly. vapcmd
i got the same sticks, but with cas 2.5
