recently, my monitor has been flickering and then the whole computer freezes and/or the monitor just shuts off [with a soundloop of the last sound in game] before i could play hl2, but now i cant even play counter-strike without this problem occuring. i used to run cs at 85 fps before but now i'm forced to run it at 60 fps because of the flickering/freezing. it still freezes at 60 fps sometimes. i tried to play lineage ii. . .same result. i suspect that this may be overheating or my outdated hardware, but i'm not sure what to upgrade according to everest home edition: os: win2000 pro cpu: intel pentium 4, 2.4 ghz vga: geforce fx 5200 [128 mb, agp 8x] memory: 512 mb [two 256mb ddr sdram] temperatures motherboard:
your cpu temp is high, those intel prescott cpu's run hot. replace the cpu cooler unit with a higher quality one. read here: cpu coolers . don't buy a cheap one, expect to pay 3$30 - $45,also use a good thermal compound such as arctic silver 5. the folks that make the cpu coolers also make vga coolers. check for one that will be compatible with your graphics card.
be sure to install a couple of exhaust fans at the back of the case and one or two intake fans in the front of the case.
thanks so much
whether your 2.4ghz p4 cpu has a prescott or northwood core, 50*c (122*f) is not too high a temperature for that cpu under load. i do suspect your temperature readings are not accurate because if your resting cpu temp is 48*c, you should see a larger jump in temp than 2*c. you should be able to get that cpu idle temp into the 30's (c) range with a good heatsink and fan (hsf) and thermal compound. what does speedfan (free from download.com) say about your system, cpu and gfx card temps? before you go to the expense and effort of changing out the cpu heatsink and fan (hsf), try adding the largest fan to the rear exhaust of your box that will fit (120mm if possible). also, tell us the psu wattage and mfg. if possible. another thing to try is to give your computer a good cleaning with regard to viruses and spyware. turn off all unnecessary background programs when gaming. ultimately you might be running those games with too much detail for that gfx card. assuming you have an agp 8x slot, i'd consider an upgrade to an nvidia 6800 family video card if speedfan tells you your current hardware temps are ok.
