i did a full restore of my ibm thinkpad laptop. everything went fine with this, but when windows boots up my mouse does not work. i have tried plugging in an external mouse, but this does not seem to work either. when you first boot up the computer you can got into a program called &quot;access ibm&quot; (basically a pre-installed computer diagnostic program). in this program that mouse works fine, however as soon as windows boots up the mouse does not respond to anything can anyone please help??
your mouse does not work, but you plug in an external mouse and it doesn't work. what kind of mouse does not work?
- how exactly did you do the 'full restore'? - ps/2 mouse, usb mouse or both don't work (worth a try if you only checked one type) kees
the computer is a laptop. the touchpad mouse doesn't work. and when i tried to plug a usb mouse in it lights up, but does not work either.
its an ibm laptop and ibm has a system program loaded that you can get to before windows opens. i did a full restore from that program. i'm thinking this has to be an operating system issue...?
have you gone to mouse/touch pad properties (in control panel) and looked at the settings? i'm well familiar with ibm laptops (i've had 5) and the restoral partition. but i've never heard of your problem. you might go to the ibm site  and input the laptop specs. look for updated drivers.
(immediately after, i mean) this shouldn't be an os issue. the next thought is a hardware issue. it will be interesting to see how this is finally solved. keep us posted please. kees
the reason i feel like this is an os issue is because the ibm program that i get to before windows opens recognizes my mouse. the mouse works and i go into bios and it shows the mouse as being disabled. weird situation... thanks so much for trying to help!
should been seen by windows. so (if you really mean the bios-setup) that fits. it's much stranger that another (non-windows program) sees it, despite the bios-settings. something is wrong here. kees
