i am posting a new question to the mac hardware forum concerning a new replacement for my original usb1.1 apple card for my mac g4 quicksilver server to a new card for the usb2 standard. my g4 has a single port for the usb. is the usb and the firewire port next to it connected to the same card? opened up to take a look at what is involved to replace the card unit and quickly closed the mac door. i am not an it person. way over my head! what should i do??? also ,what usb2 hub should i purchase? 4-ports are not enough. i am interested in the belkin 7-port maybe. your thoughts? mr. macfixit, do you do house calls? :) thanks, kevin smith
k, it is very easy to equip your machine with usb 2.0. you can even do it yourself, even though you are not a it person. first, your g4 has 2 usb ports and 2 firewire (ieee1394) ports. while you are upgrading the usb, you might as well upgrade the firewire too. upgrades for usb and firewire are achieved by installing a pci card into your g4. upgrading both at the same time, involves no extra work on your part. you just buy a firewire/usb 2.0 pci combo card. usb and firewire on the same card. you can find one such card here:  but there are others. gather up your new card, still in the box and a phillips head screw driver. #2 should do. it would also be nice if you had a grounding wrist strap but it is not essential if you follow the instructions. to install the card, shut down your g4. if you have enough room to open the door where the machine is, good. if you don't have room, disconnect everything and move to somewhere more roomier, preferably with a nearby grounded power outlet. plug the power back in. do not start the machine up. open the door and lay it down flat. put on the wrist strap and attach the other end to a metal part of the g4. power supply case is good. do not attach the end directly to any part of the logic board. if you don't have an anti-static wrist band, make sure that you have everything close by, touch the power supply case with one bare hand. unplug the power cord, all static in your body has now been dissipated. pci cards are fitted in the white slots on the logic board (motherboard). locate the slots. in your case they are probably all empty. notice on the back of the case, in line with the white slots, there are covers over the openings. the covers are held in place with one philips head screw. note how the covers are situated. pick a slot, any slot, and remove the cover from the corresponding opening in the case. keep the screw. remove the pci card from the box and the anti-static bag. hold the card by the edges and avoid touching the components. look at the card, the slot and the opening. the connector on the card goes into the slot, the ''tongue'' of the card (where the external connectors are) goes between the logic board and the case. the whole thing sits down in exactly the way that the original opening cover was sat. it will be a fairly tight fit, you may have to wiggle it a little but do not force it too much. when everything is lined up, it will fit in. put the phillips screw back in. disconnect the wrist strap, close the door, reconnect everything and fire it up. it probably not require any drivers to make it work. os x panther has usb 2.0 support and firewire has been around for a long time. these, and any other necessary, instructions will be found in the booklet that comes with the card. ignore any language except english. ignore any instructions for any flavor of windows. read only the mac setion. this is a job for a non tech person who is willing to read and look before attacking the logic board. good luck p
mrmacfixit, thank you for the help and understanding for a non it person. the post was easy to understand and to follow. the link was also a plus upgrading to a usb2!! (  ) i have printed this post out and also copied your text to a word doc. for filing on to my cnet folder and helpful posts. (i keep a folder with helpful posts from you and others on my hard drive.) you should be a technical writer. wonderful! your post is really easy to understand. what about becoming a moderator? i will post back to you with my results. your help is great! hopefully i will not blow up my mac or zapp it! wish me luck. i also think that this post will be worthwhile to many others seeking the same solution and how to do it. thanks for the tip on upgrading firewire at the same time. never thought of upgrading firewire while upgrading usb2. who knew? not me. two great tips from you! :) :) thank you! kevin smith
p. thanks for the link (  you saved me hours looking for the upgrade. probably would not have found it on my own. went directly to the site and ordered it for $49.95. two day shipping was $11.95. the only other shipping option was an overnite at $22. received the secure package from fedex today. the sonnettech site will notify you on any updates available for the purchases that you have just made. nice idea. next step: install. thanks again, kevin
