so, i had an earlier post here, asking if a custom-built desktop i wanted to buy was a good deal. it was, so i bought it with some changes: the seller/builder traded out the 500gb hard drive for a 1tb, and, because i already have windows 7 ultimate x64, he left the os blank. i received the tower yesterday (friday), and set it up today. as it turns out, loading the nvidia gforce gt 430 video card is having disastrous results: the card crashes constantly and restarts... then finally freezes all together and bsod's the computer so thoroughly that i have to do a 5-second shut down to turn it off. i have installed, uninstalled and reinstalled the driver(s) more than once. i totally wiped the os, cleared the drive, reloaded the os and reinstalled the drivers--all with the same result. surfing, opening folders, sending stuff to recycle--doesn't matter. the card crashes randomly, the screen goes black then comes back, then the whole works eventually freezes, blue screens and requires a switch shut down. i ran hw monitor to see if the video card was running hot, but it never got above 42c. in fact, it was at 31c when the whole system froze up and crashed this last time. the builder/seller says the card was working perfectly when he ran win7 home on it, and i have no reason to disbelieve him. if i haven't even loaded any of the video/graphic intensive programs we need to use and it's acting like this, however, what will happen the first time i load and open gimp or serif? at this point, i have two options: either send back the computer (from california to virginia), or find and install a video card that will work with the specs below. nvidia's website is no help, all the places i've googled are no help, and the seller/builder is as dismayed as i am. the computer seems otherwise quite good--but i must be able to use it with the various video and graphics programs we have. with that in mind, does anyone have any suggestions for a video card that will work with the specs as listed below? i can spend up to $175--but would rather not. the card has to be able to handle some fairly intensive video work, but nothing wowish, if you get my meaning... anyway, thanks in advance for any advice for either a fix, and/or suggestions for a new video card. the current specs: processor: intel core i5-2320 sandy bridge 3.0ghz (3.3ghz turbo boost) 1mb l2 cache & 6mb l3 cache socket lga 1155 quad-core processor motherboard: biostar h61mgc lga 1155 micro atx intel motherboard 4 x rear usb 2.0 ports 2 x pci-e x1 slot video: pny nvidia geforce 430 gt (fermi) 1gb ddr3 128-bit pci express graphics card 1xvga port, 1xdvi port, 1xhdmi port core clock: 700mhz shader clock: 1400mhz memory: 8gb (2x4gb) team elite ddr3 1333 gaming/high performance ram hard drive: 1tb seagate barracuda 7200rpm 16mb cache operating system: windows 7 ultimate 64-bit (my copy) optical drive: samsung multiformat dvd burner 2xusb ports, 2xaudio ports power supply: raidmax 500-watt power supply w/2x80mm fans
pull the gpu from it's slot. put the gpu back in the slot. test. if no go........look into a hd 7770.
after you loaded your copy of windows you did load the mobo drivers.......right?
give me some credit! working with desktops may be bit new to me, but not that new... loaded all the drivers, even being careful to get the video driver directly from nvidia's site, since what is on the supplied disk can some times be a little hinky. no go. no matter what i do, the v-card blanks off repeatedly, then ultimately sends the computer to bluescreen land within twenty minutes, forcing me to use the switch to shut it down. i will look into the suggestion, re. pulling the gpu... and could i have a bit more info on &quot;hd 770&quot; is that a model, a brand, or both? i'd like to do a search on it.
on the surface, the psu maybe at fault as it maybe lacking for the full drain of its output or power leg(s). there are different versions of raidmax 500w, so what is the model#? next, if you've done any oc'ing, use defaults keep it to basics. please tell who the seller is, or at least check the bbb to get a history. at times when a pc misbehaves, i totally remove from case and place on table and with fan blowing on it, run it as it should. however, since this a build for you and the clock is ticking, you decide, try to fix yourself or act now, using the warranty because warranty issues arise quickly. yeah, it may have worked before s/h, but stuff happens. tada -----willy
some folks skip those mobo drivers and move right to device drivers.......notta wok. plug hd 7770 into goggle.
damn it, i hit the &quot;best answer&quot; button by mistake. is there a way to retract it? anyway, i'm not worried about the builder/seller or getting my money back if i go that route; he has an excellent reputation. i'm not overclocking the computer, though i will look into the psu. i really do think it's the v-card, and will be taking the suggestion to pull and reinsert the card to see if that helps. if it doesn't, the seller and i have already agreed that we'll go with a different card and see what happens. i will likely suggest an &quot;upgrade,&quot; though, since this card is fairly old in terms of its model age.
i've removed the drivers from the computer, going back to stock video. it's ugly, but i haven't had a crash, so it's definitely something with the card, methinks. i'll do a pull and reset today, and if it's still giving me fits, the seller and i have already agreed to trade out the card. i'll look into upgrading to get a somewhat higher-grade (read: younger model) card. he's a good guy, just one of those things, i think. computers and cats seem to have in common the tendency to do what they want, when they want to.
a video card can on its own task the psu and the mtrbd. as only so much power can be gotten via the mtrbd.. which is why the psu provides direct power connects if in fact they use them. i mention the power leg because on a single rail, all power becomes available, but if split rail, it divides the power supplied. the quick anser i got was 22amps and that's alot but it may not so easily seem so. you do what you got to do, because there are close relationship power wise for psu and video demands. so, don't easily dismiss as it should have worked. sometimes, the demands are on the cusp of what is provided and quality matters come into play for simple it can't deliver. tada ------willy
okay, first i want to say that i wasn't saying your answer wasn't the best answer to disregard it, but because i accidentally hit that button when i meant to hit &quot;reply.&quot; at the time, i hadn't even had the chance to look at some of the other comments, so i was a bit annoyed with my clumsy fingers. in point of fact, i can't at all argue with your comment. more than one person (on another forum--this issue really has had me tearing my hair out) has stated that this comp's mobo is not exactly top of the line. also, i was aware before i bought the computer that the psu, while generally reliable, has been known to have quirks. i did take the initial &quot;simple solution&quot;: pulled the video card, then replaced it and reloaded the drivers. i am still having some crashes, especially when surfing the web, but so far, the system hasn't out and out crashed. i'm still quite concerned though, since i haven't loaded any of my video/graphic-intensive programs, yet. i'll be doing that in the next hour or so. then we'll see what we see. i bought this computer with an eye toward doing some upgrades as finances allow, while being able to do work for clients. with that in mind, any suggestions on a mobo that works with my specs, won't cost me my weight in money, but is a bit up on this one? likewise, with the psu? i'm game to make any changes that will give me a smoother experience; i just wasn't planning to have to do so too soon.
i pulled the card and reinstalled then reloaded. it's still stopping and recovering (in fact, it just did as i was typing this), but the frequency and severity are down. at least, at the moment...
as i write this, what? not quite 30 minutes after my last post, my computer is completely frozen. i turned on hw monitor, and then went to a website that is selling a video production program i'm interested in. i was about 15 seconds into looking at one of the samples the company streams to show off what their program can do, when it froze up. i clicked on the video and it began to play again. then, less than 15 seconds later, the whole damn computer froze. no mouse movement, nothing. i have never had this happen with a computer running windows 7. my laptop, a gateway p 7805u fx running an nvidia v-card, used to lose the card once in a great while, but that hasn't happened since i handled the heat issues. now i really am beginning to wonder if it's something with the video card, or if it might be a weak mobo or psu...
the fix-it method on a pc is swap parts. a pc fix-it shop would just reach up on the shelf and grab a spare gpu. if no go.....they would grab a spare psu......etc.etc. that's not a luxury most home users have. your left with best guess.......which can get expensive. while you were in the machine did you verify that all the heat sinks were nice an clean? all the fans were working? maybe take a moment to reseat all the plugs? shipping the machine can get kind of brutal on the innards.
let's say i'm unsure what part it is. and by unsure i mean close to 50-50, 60-40 chances. how do i decide which part? -&gt; i go by cost. if i suspect the psu or the motherboard and am not at the shop with my oscilloscope then the psu is the choice hands down because it usually is half the price of the motherboard. bob
see what's available at what price and highly recommended by the actual buyers. once you find a product that really looks good, then you can decide where to buy it....locally or otherwise. might be easier to get an inexpensive card that would work and validate that's the problem. have you tested the ram or tried just one dimm ? vapcmd ps...what's the builder/seller say ?
...but what i'm getting from other sources is that the issue may be more the psu than it is the card. the mobo has also been denigrated to a lesser extent, but based on what i am able to do with the comp without the nvidia drivers loaded, i'm inclined to think the mobo will do--for now, at least the seller says the card worked perfectly when he sent the computer, and i have no reason to disbelieve him. he has been unhesitating in his willingness to refund the cost of the card so i can order one locally; i'd rather not send the entire computer back. i fully expect that he would have not problem replacing the psu if that turns out to be the real issue. my inclination at this point is to replace the psu first and go from there. at this point, i am not looking for anything insanely fancy. that can come later. after all the comments from various sources, all i want right now is a psu that is better than the one that currently is in the box. if it turns out that the video card is still an issue, then i would like to get a replacement that is a bit better than the one supplied, since it is, i am discovering, is somewhat old, manufacture-date-wise. any suggestions, fairly specific, would be greatly appreciated.
