i have window's vista and want to use my hp scanjet 3970 scanner to scan some old slides. i haven't been able to use it it in about 2 yrs. is there a tool i can download to have the scanner work on vista? the disk would not work when i fist got vista and now i need to use it.
so you tried hp's drivers at
thanks for the link no, i haven't tried it. it won't effect my other scanner lexmark will it? does this mean below only if 3970 was installed on vista, which it didn't work on any? system requirements: recommended: uninstall any previous software/driver for your scanner
as you suspect you'll want to make a copy of your system just in case. at least that's free. read and pick yours from
well now you have me worried! what are the chances that it would mess up my system? is it worth downloading? i'm not that computer smart. i just want to download a tool...if it works good, if not well it just doesn't work.
as you may suspect i'm a bit fearless since i would have a backup ready. since you have another scanner, must this scanner be brought back? and also look at what hp offered. it's a &quot;basic&quot; driver so who knows (they don't tell and i don't own this scanner) if they enabled the backlight for the film accessory or not. maybe this needs a test on another machine or you to learn if system restore on xp, vista is functional on your machine. bob
thanks bob, i sure liked this scanner that it scans negtives, but i could go to wal-greens thanks i will give it thought.
but let me share one last thought. -&gt; the cost of a trip to any computer repair or support counter pays for how many trips to walgreens? not that this is a good reason not to try but you wonder. bob
your welcome and thanks for helping make up my mind i still loved that hp scanner....guess that's life and the way things change.
bob, i have been thinking(not good) my old windows &quot;me&quot; that the 3970 scaner worked with. the last time i tried to use it would not power up, any way to get the power start? i know, but i can use the scanner :)i'm trying to get pictures from some slides with out sending the slide off for a week or two.
type the dead pc and you find the usual dead pc troubleshooting. i can't tell you exactly what and which part to change to suspect here. hut with xp and vista we do have system restore to fall back on if you want to install that driver. -&gt; but first, norton and some other antivirus programs or suites can have you do one more thing to get system restore (sr) to work. here's a search about that issue -&gt;  hope that helps, bob
bob, i haven't had a chance to try what you sugguested yet. thanks for links. i will let you know how i come out
hi have??, the link to the basic driver for your scanner that bob provided should work for your scanner and not cause any problems with your other lexmark scanner. if for some reason you did run into a problem after installation, you can always use windows system restore to roll your pc back to a time before the installation.
thanks mr. do i still haven't face the problem yet....but if you think the tool for hp scanner for vista will work with out it causing problems i will give it a go. thanks for reading the post. as always everyone is so helpful....i love coming to this forum, it's the best!
