i am currently trying to build a computer for my daughter. i purchased a abit nf8-v motherboard and amd sempron processor bundle, along with a western digital 40 gig hdd, a nvidia g force fx5200 video card, 512 meg kingston memory, and a 350 watt power supply. after assembly, the memory and video card work fine, the board and processor come up, but will not recognize the hdd at all, nor will it recognize the cd rom. any ideas or suggestions? any help would be greatly appreciated.
i have a computer similiar to yours, mines is equipped with a anthlon xp 2400+ 2.0 ghz. and i have 640 mb. or ram, a geforce fx 5700ve, 160 gb. of hard drive space, and this sucka really isn't a good gaming performer for me. if gaming isn't your thing, then your pc is quite decent, but if you game, then you could just forget about it........
sata, pata? exactly what ports on the mobo are they attached to?? exactly how are they jumpered?? are you using an 80 conductor ribbon cable?? what settings re the drives are made in the bios???
the hdd is a western digital wd400 the dvd/cd rom is a btc 8x, 8x combo drive
what ports they are on. [primary ide, secondary ide] western digital drives have somewhat unusual jumpering if you are not using cable select jumpering [and a ribbon cable that supports cs] (all 80 conductor {40 pin}cables support cs). for normal maste / slave jumpering the wd drives use different jumpering if it is to be a masrter and there is to not be a slave on the ribbon cable. if it is to be a master and a slave to be on the ribbon cable [and the slave must be there all the time]. actually as master with no slave there is no jumper, however in order to have a jumper available if needed they put the jumper horizontally just for storage, thuus that is actually no jumper as far as the drive configuration is concerned. now if using cable select [cs] (csel], the master drive must be connected to the end connector and the slave connected to the middle connector. {not always nice if the hard drive is low in the case and the atapi drive higher up in the case. if you have two ide ports on the mobo, easiest to attach each to a different cable.
thanks ray......you were right on target......the hdd was jumpered as a master with no slave on board. many thanks for you assistance......couldn't have done it without you.
