i am seeing an interesting phenomenon with my wireless network. i have a w2k box set up to perform 802.1x authentication for my wireless network, using eap-tls. for authentication type i have use smart card or certificate, and have both the user cert and to root ca cert installed. when i check the validate server certificate option the connection fails, and i get an entry in event viewer on the w2k boc idicating an invalid user name or password. when i leave the box unchecked i connect just fine. any thoughts?
i have some cards that won't connect under some settings and when i call it in they finally replied with a &quot;yes, we'll have to fix that.&quot; have you contacted the people that supplied the drivers? bob
hi bob, i was hopping you were out there perusing the posts. yes, i have contacted linksys, and they're looking into it. they have actually been pretty responsive on this issue, but no cure yet. i was hopping you might have some ideas, but if it's a driver issue, i'm stuck till they fix it. rob
sadly they came back with a &quot;don't do that&quot; and no date on the fix. so you can guess the answer. bob
unforyunately not being able to validate the cert does create a bit of a vulnerability.
if this is just to keep others off your wifi why not just wpa or wpa2? there is no crack worth noting here that doesn't take an armada of machines to break into. one has to declare a goal. ours was simple. security that was strong enough and we could expect to work for a month at a time (when we change wifi wpa passwords.) bob
i am using wpa2 in enterprise mode, and you are right, the vulnerability that i am talking about would be exceeding difficult to exploit, (someone would have to do a black bag job on my residence, which isn't real likely) so i'm not overly concerned about it. i'm just one of those folks that if i know of a security hole, i like to plug it.
when we need that we use this -&gt;  so far no one has detected it. they seem fixated on software solutions. bob
that's a slick little device. the attack i was specifically a type of mitm attack against eap-tls and peap where an attacker gets between the client and the ap. during the initial phases, the attacker sends the client a bogus cert. if the client is not required to validate the cert, then it blindly accepts the cert and authenticates with the bogus set up. the attacker can then relay to the actual server and authenticate on to the wireless network. the attacker is now in a position to intercept and decrypt all traffic between the client, and the real ap. this is a fairly sophisticated attack that would be difficult to mount against a setup like mine, and there are ways to ensure that you are on the right network, but in an environment where you have a wireless network spanning multiple buildings, this could be a cause for concern.
