i have an old compaq presario 5102us with an amd 1ghz athlon, 200mhz fsb, 384 sdram, 40gb hard drive and it's almost 5 years old. i recently bought a processor from ebay for it cause the one that it had before fried (fan came loose and was separated from the cpu, causing it to fry). i've been trying to fix this pc for months, but being in college and working, i don't have a lot of time to try to fix it. yesterday, i decided to take a look at it, everything came on except for the monitor. i hooked up my hp a1010n's monitor, an hp vs17 monitor, and it didn't show any image either. it keeps telling me to &quot;check the video cable&quot;. i started playing with the cables and connectors, thinking maybe i put them wrong when i put the new processor in a few months ago, but that wasn't doing the trick. i also found a very small little black piece coming off the mother board, near where the processor sits... i took it out since it was loose anyway.... i also changed the cmos battery like it was suggested to me, but that did not fix the problem. my question is: is it the video card or the motherboard? does that little piece be the reason for the motherboard to be bad, or could it be something else wrong with the motherboard? or is it the video card since the monitor will not come up but it does tell me to &quot;check video cable&quot;? which ever the problem is, what do i do now? thanks! ylc
bob, where are you??? :-/
...but for this, you need to have someone see the pc -- small pieces coming off doesn't sound good. if you have another functioning video card that you could put in the pc, that could determine if its the card or the motherboard. a used pc/parts store might do a free/cheap diagnosis if you they have a replacement motherboard.
the monitor would not come on and this black piece i'm talking about is the size of a grain of rice. so i doubt this has a lot, if anything, to do with the fact that the monitor won't come on. i guess i could try the video card at a local shop, if i can find someone to do it for free. what else could it be, though?
even when the rest of the system, including the cpu isn't even on, or the cpu is dead.
hey ray, so you think it's not the video card because the monitor displayed that message? i don't know what else to do. i know you've offered for me to send it to you, but i don't have the ways to send it and i don't trust how ups/fedex treat their packages (since i worked with ups, i'd know!, lol!) i guess i'll have to find a local shop that is willing to check it out for me for free or something. if you can think of anything else, let me know. thanks
that is definitely was not the video card. the history of that system and its performance after putting the new cpu in just bothers me.
since i'm the one that has to deal with it! :-p but anyays, since i can't get any help here i'll take it to a shop, i guess, whenever i have money. thanks anyways.
