hi all! i just purchased a brand new mad dog external cd/dvd for my gateway profile p4 pc. (windows xp home-sp2) i bought it because the drive attached to my computer could no longer be depended upon to burn cds. (my computer is 5 years old!) this new drive is great, and now i can burn dvds, which my old drive could not do. it also burns cds from downloaded digital music brilliantly. the only problem is, when i open itunes to play a cd, this drive will not play cds in itunes! it will play music cds in windows media player though. (but my entire music library is in itunes! so i burn all of my music cds using itunes.) so, i called the manufacturer, and sure enough, he said this drive is incompatible with itunes. my question to you guys is, is there any way around this fact? (is he just telling me this because of some loyalty &quot;deal&quot; they have with win media?) because i can not figure out a way to get music from cds uploaded into itunes. when i try, the song, and all of it's info, appears in itunes and on my ipod, but the music simply does not play even after i've converted the song to a format itunes plays! (by the way, i use these cds for my job as an exercise instructor. so i depend on my equipment to enable my work!) had i not already gotten rid of the box and receipt, i would've returned this drive. (nothing on the box or in the instructions says the drive is incompatible with itunes. i think that's a bit shady.) am i doomed to be unable to upload music cds? do these external drives ever say they are compatible/incompatible with itunes? i'd appreciate any info you-all have on this topic.
i picked up a new drive from newegg.com or geeks.com and it's fine. that's the solid fix. next you research the internet for new drive firmware (goodbye warranty) and hope that gets it done. -&gt; why keep such a drive? bob
bob, thanks for the quick response! now, my only reason for keeping this drive has to do with an abject fear of buying yet another drive that will not work with itunes! (remember, there was no indication that this new drive would not work with itunes till i called the manufacturer and asked! so how is one to know??? $70.00 down the tubes because i immediately disposed of the box and receipt. yup, stupid.) now that i've learned that lesson, i invision myself buying and returning drives until i hit one that's compatible! that's my only concern. so i am definitely going to newegg.com or geeks.com, if i can be sure the drives work with itunes! (also, i'm hoping i can find an external drive so i won't have to open my computer for installation.) thanks again man.
i'm sorry to read your plight. it's been hard for me to encounter or find such a drive today. i can understand how this would make a person gun shy. let's try this. if you can give me the dark details of your drive i will (one time) for the firmware. here's the tool to see what's in that mad dog -&gt; look at the &quot;drive model and region status identification programs&quot; at  bob
bob, i have no idea what is, or where i'd find something called, a region status identification program! but, the model number of my drive is md-18xtfe. but wouldn't you think it really wouldn't matter, considering the dude at mad dog told me the drive was incompatible with itunes? or do you think there might be a chance it could be the firmware, and he didn't know what he was talking about? (i did check out newegg.com and found an external drive by lg that is in my price range. i'm going to email them and ask if it will work with itunes.)
and you someday want to risk it, that unit might also be a tsstcompcd/dvdw sh-s182d by samsung. i've used many samsungs with many softwares. i can't test your unit for you but it it gets to the point you are going to trash it then here's the firmware to try.  sorry, i am not endorsing this in any way shape or form but as reference material as a last ditch idea prior to the scrap heap. bob
bob, this idea of firmware is real new to me. and i notice on the page the link brought me to, there are many different versions of this firmware. which version would i chose? the latest, no? and is installation simple? this is my last ditch effort, so i think i will try it. and if it doesn't work, i got my new choice on newegg.com to start fresh with. (anyway, i am grateful i'm not losing 100s and 100s of dollars because of not keeping the box and receipt!!!) thanks for your patience with me.
is always the latest. there may be someone, somewhere that can find a reason for the older versions. bob
i never tell how here. this is between you and it's maker since if i mistype one word or you read it wrong then i'm to blame. sorry about that. bob
i totally get why you can't do serious details about this subject. and again, i am soooo grateful for the help you've extended to me. i'll let you know how this-all pans out. ken
