i have a dilema that i can't sort out. i have a home receiver hooked up to my pc. one of the analog(1/8&quot; mini) 'out'(s) goes to the a set of rca 'in' jacks on the receiver. i was thinking about getting a new sound card like the audigy 2 zs but i don't think it will do what i want it to. i would like to connect my pc via a digital or optical 'out'(from the back of the pc) to the stereo. this way my receiver is giving me every ounce of stereo music that is being produced. i'm sure that home stereo speakers sound quite a bit better than pc speaker sets but i don't think there is a card that will do what i want. i am not interested in running a wire to the front of my pc (like audigy 2 zs platinum) can anyone recommend a way to get a stereo optical or digital 'out' for the audigy 2 zs or another card that might play as well? thanks, po
you say anthing about what pc you have. one of the options is to coxal digitial audio, the cables are much cheeper and the sound is the same. john
i believe the sound blaster audigy 2zs can plug into an external input/output device that has optical out. i know their external audigy 2 has this feature so i'm willing to bet it can be added to the cheaper internal card. i use an audigy 2zs gamers edition myself.
with the audigy2 zs its a snap. just connect the digital audio out cable(digital coax) to a digital audio coax input on your a/v receiver. viola! now you've got audio from your pc playing through the home speakers connected to your home receiver. you will need a receiver that has a digital audio input(any current receiver has several of them). if your receiver only has a digital optical input, then you will have to get a converter cable for the digital coax to digital optical. these converters are very cheap and can be bought anywhere. i am about to purchase the audigy2 zs sound card myself. this card is amazing and offers everything you could possibly want. you won't need one of the higher end cards unless you need to do highly specific technical work. i thought about using home speakers and a home receiver with my pc, but i am going to go ahead and buy the logitech z-5500 5.1 speakers and processor because this speaker setup is loaded with features and has absolutely incredible sound. the clarity and power are truly top notch.
as hard as i looked i couldn't see a spec that said this card had a digital audio out. or maybe i'm getting confused. there definitely wasn't an optical out and there are no analog outs. i started thinking that maybe i'm wasting my time on the home receiver because i've heard such good things about some of the pc speaker sets (like the logitech). i also read that regular speakers don't sound great when you're sitting &quot;on top&quot; of them. pc speakers are designed to be listened to at closer ranges. when i read that i turned a song on at my desk and listened to half of it while seated at the desk and the other half about 8 feet away from the desk. the song sounded better from a distance. i have a p4 1.4, 512mb, 200gb, windows xp pro machine. it's more than enough for my needs. i don't game but i love to listen to music. want to set the pc up as a media center but for now i'm stuck sitting at my desk and letting the sound hit me in the face. naturally, i want the best sound i can get and if you read all the articles i've read you go crazy worrying about internal electrical interferences, bit rates, which codec is best, and how to get the best sound from your speakers. i could really use some helpful advice from anyone who has been through what i'm going through. thanks all! po
looking at your sound blaster from the back of the computer the far right plug is the digital out jack. it supplies a digital signal via an 1/8&quot; plug and your stereo supplies the dsp (digital signal processor). if you go with computer speakers the sound blaster will handle the dsp. basically digital is a rehash of an old idea where more than one channel of music is present. remember quadrophonic stereos of the late sixties and early seventies? this time around you only need a right and left channel each with a digital signal and a processor recreates the multiple channels based on the digital information. every listener has different tastes in what sounds good to them. for instance i like a lot of high end in my music whereas some folks find it to crisp that way. i also like a deep rich bass and some folks find that annoying. my best advice is visit a brick and mortar store with displays set up and find one that suits your ears then try to duplicate the setup at home. keep in mind that sounds are effected by space and objects in that space, so it may not sound the same at home. the good news is your sound blaster can recreate a wide range of spaces to try to mimic different settings. good luck
