i have a freeagent pro 750gb hard drive. i want to use the esata interface but have seemed unable to thus far. i bought an esata cable that has 3gb/s transfer speed, along with an &quot;esata ii expresscard raid&quot; by siig, inc. i installed all the software for the card(which appears in device manager and seems to be working properly and nothing seems to work. it doesn't show that i have a drive connected at all. it seems to work fine with usb but not with my esata connection. this is the secong kind of card i have tried so i don't know what else to do. i have a laptop that runs windows xp media center.
what derails most is that you would think it should be as easy as installing one driver. sadly you often discover some motherboard drivers need installing. bob
with the drive electronics. not very likely, however. anyway, the shop where you bought it (hope it's stone and brick) should be able to show it works with them so isn't broken. that leaves the driver issue. kees
i just purchased the exact same setup. siig expresscard esata with raid and the 500gb freeagentpro. one thing i found is that there is possible interference between the esata cable plug end and the siig card. i had to shave the corners off the cable plug end in order to get it to seat properly in the card. once that is fixed, the blue light should appear on the siig card. for single drive mode you have set it up as a raid0. be careful because the raid gui from siig will require you to format the drive after creating teh riad group. make sure you install/backup the software that's preloaded on the drive. i lost mine that way....no cd. i'm still working on formatting the drive. doesn't seem to want to format while plugged into esata. let me know how it goes.
i've also got a 750gb freeagent pro but it's connected directly to an esata port on the motherboard's rear panel (asus p5n-e sli). i *think* that the connection is live because the external hdd stops/starts glowing orange when i switch off / boot up the pc. absolutely no sign of it anywhere in the pc though. nothing in device manager let alone my computer. i'm running vista home premium. the drive worked fine when i connected it to my windows xp laptop using the usb cable. any ideas folks? i'll email seagate and ask them too. i'll let you know if they come up with anything useful. thanks very much!
i bought a pci esata card and cable from fry's to connect to my 750 gb freeagent pro. the drive will not power on (no light) no matter what i tried. the card appears in the xp media center configuration. the base of the drive is warm but no orange light. usb and firewire work fine. i have a sony vaio desktop with xp media center edition. has anyone experience this problem? thanks
had the same problem with mine. having done a bit of research it seems the esata connection on the drive is a bit problematic. i found that if i push the esata cable firmly into the socket it will work, but as soon as i let go it does not. unfortunately i haven't found a solution yet, i will be trying a new cable soon. other users have trimmed the plastic on the cable connector so it will go further into the socket, i may try that as well.
i have been looking for an answer to this exact problem. i have freeagent pro 320gb drive and haven't been able to get a sata connection working. like the rest here i could get a usb connection no trouble. i also purchased 2 different esata port pci cards and could not seem to get them working. i stumbled across this forum and saw that it was a cable connect problem for some of you. when i plugged my drive in, the cable felt like it was connecting but after reading this post and apply some addtional pressure to my cable. bam it works. just wanted to say thanks.
i had the same issues. i found that i just had to push the esata cable in harder into the drive and tada! it worked. i feel extremely stupid after this experience. i was checking my drivers, bios, connections to the mb, swapping known good connections, trying different cables.... stupid that it was that simple.
i've wasted money on two pci controllers, the whole night looking up faqs, knowledge databases, bios and driver upgrades from wd, silicon image and vantec... and i was one stop short of rma-ing my external hdd.... thankfully i found this forum! just a 60-second trick to shave the end off the header and it works! the thing is... why can't they even get the specifications right in these sort of stuff?
