i was trying to install a new hard disk in addition to the existing one. seagate sata. the win xp disk management recognized the hardware. but when i tried to create a primary partion the system works for some time and comes with an alert &quot;error in making partion&quot; or something similar. then when i go back to disk management the new hard disk is no longer there. the same thing happens when i use easues partion manager. it works for a long time and comes with an error message. then the hard disk is longer recognized by the software. please help. thank you.
might be useful information. kees
i downloaded a program called sea tools from sea gate for checking the new disk. i restarted the computer and checked that the disk was recognized by the bios. then i ran the sea tools program. it did not recognize the disk. i checked rescan in the program. the program hung and i had to restart the computer. may be the bios recognizes the external connections. but when some program tries to access the disk, the error creeps in. looks like my new disk is doa.
that xp knows nothing about sata drives or drives larger than 127gb (until sp1.) there are very long discussions about that and it matters about the pc make, model, sata drivers and more. the details are missing in your post so try filling in the missing details. there is also a bios setting the matters but let's not change that until you know you can recover from a disk wipe out. more at  bob
my os is win xp pro with sp3. i have a sata disk 160 gb already where win xp is installed. i was installing an additional hard disk with a higer capacity for data and back up. according to the seagate site, their seatools will not detect a hard disk if it is not recognized by the bios (mine does) or the drive does not spin up.  fortunately i made my purchase from a neighborhood dealer. he has promised to replace the disk immediately. a slightly higher price is worth it. thank you all.
i can cause this to happen if i enabled the sata to ide emulation in the bios. it's a very funny area of windows, bios and drivers so the details matter. i know that machine owners do not like having to know these details but if we are to add another drive it may matter which sata port we used if the ide emulation is in use. your reply didn't give me the feeling you have this area firmly under control. let's hope the next drive works for you. bob
i got a new disk as a replacement. the new disk is working well. no problems. this confirms that the cause of all the errors was a bad disk. it is quite shocking to find a new disk which is doa. but then it does happen.
