hopefully this is the right spot for this ! i'm hoping someone can read this and help me straighten this out. any help is greatly appreciated !! a quick background of the situation. up until about 5-6 years ago we had a camera that took film and we got pictures developed and that was it! since then we have a digital camera,smart phones, tablets and we take more pictures and video than ever! i usually have to back up everyone's stuff from the phones and cameras . some of these digital pics we print. a lot of them we don't need to print, but we share and want to keep them. now, everyone will be super angry if i ever lost anything so i've backed all up onto 2 usb hard drives and a copy on the computer. i been doing a lot of sharing and backup through windows for a long time this way. my problem is ,i have to make this simpler and more efficient. i can fix a computer and i'm technical with stuff ,but i never did any real server/backup type things. hopefully someone with experience and knowledge can steer me in the right direction ? i was looking into freenas (raid) and amahi (greyhole) and i peeked at windows home server ( drive extender). i've read a lot but i'm not sure which way to go. maybe there is better options? here's what i &quot;like&quot; to do :/ i have an available pc that's ready to be wiped and configured. if a mac would be better for whatever reason ill get one. but i like to keep the cost down. i like to have an easy ( somewhat ) way for everyone to back up their own stuff ( in an organized fashion ) and have all info duplicated. so if one hard drive fails the info is recoverable. the raid weirds me out a little because if a drive fails do you need an exact same drive to replace? same manufacturer ? or just any drive that same size or bigger ? that's where i was &quot;kinda&quot; liking &quot;greyhole and drive extender &quot; . also a way to share anything local and remote. oh if possible i would like to have another machine at a family members house where they can do the same and we can backup each others stuff remotely on a schedule ? again i appreciate and help ! thank you !!
that is commonly employed by businesses with multiple users is a centralized network storage. budgets determine how high in performance, scalability, fault tolerance and backups they can go. home administrators can employ a modest configuration within consumer budgets. avoid low end nas - they are too slow. get a gigabit network and put a file server and all your users on it. if you know how to run linux, your server os is free, otherwise use wxp pro or w7pro for easier operation than home premium editions. it would be too exhausting to describe &quot;how to&quot; in this post, so read up about networked file server and use your spare pc to experiment. one last tip: a 24/7 server can chew up a lot of electricity so a low energy cpu like atom and 2.5&quot; 5400rpm disk drives will help mitigate the bills. you don't need high speed pc hardware to achieve good file server performance for a few users at home! good luck.
backup is a system of more than just a network drive. it's been well discussed you must have an offline set to safeguard against a rogue app or user. with that out of the way i upgraded my router to one with a nas feature (netgear n600 wndr3800) and plugged in a small form usb 500gb hdd. it's been out there for months without issue. it also does not take much power which i find most folk forget about. some folk think using an old pc would cut the costs but at the usual 100 or more watts it taxes them for years. so my solution is best for home use, doesn't draw much more than 1 watt and for software i use syncback most of the time. that's the end of the online step. for offline i sync this with another drive then what i can't lose fits onto usb memory sticks. bob
