i am about to build my first pc (attempt really but being positive) and wanted to get some feedback on what i have came up with so far. i am working with a limited budget and chose my components based on being able to add &quot;more&quot; later when money is not so tight. basically i am going for a mid-low high end gaming pc that has some customization options for the future. motherboard and cpu -  memory -  hdd - also use a 500gb ext. for media  cd/dvd -  power supply - i am curious about this one and what you all would suggest. since i wasn't sure i made room for a 750w power supply.  case -  video cards (to be added later) -  i plan on using vista 64-bit to take advantage of the 4gb + memory. from what i understand 32 only uses 3gb and recognizes the other 1gb as &quot;virtual memory&quot; if i have this fouled up please explain. also since i fully plan to upgrade later to the full 8gb that the mobo allows it seemed like the best choice. ok so let her rip and let me hear it, have i covered everything? would you make different choices and if so why? i appreciate any and all help in this matter since i am very excited at the prospect of building my first &quot;rig&quot;, and am somewhat anxious to get underway with the contruction.
make sure you know what you're getting (and not getting) from tigerdirect. that mobo/cpu bundle does not include a cpu cooler so you'll have to add another $30 or so for a decent one. unless you plan on sli within 4-6 months, don't waste money on an sli mobo. by october, a new $130 card will be as fast as or faster than dual 9800gt cards. this mobo and cpu are $238 (no rebate hassles) includes a cooler and is much faster (2.6ghz vs 2.2ghz). gigabyte ga-ma780g-ud3h, $90:  amd phenom 9950 black 2.6ghz, $148:  i'd also steer clear of ultra power supplies. they have about 3 different lines and a number of them are crap. this 550w 80 plus certified will handle your pc as well as a lesser quality 700w unit:
get a phenom ii 720 more clock, smaller process, more headroom, same price
the cheapest phenom ii x4 is the 810 at $180. the fastest phenom ii is the 940 which is $150. there is no pricing overlap between phenom and phenom ii.
thanks for the advice guys taking it all into consideration i think i have settled on this one -  it's in my budget and i think it's a good processor that will handle anything i can throw at it. and later on when i can work in a am3 mobo and memory it is ready to go for that as well.
no, i'm talking about an x3 the one less core is offset by more cache, 45nm, and more headroom for overclocking phenom ii x3 720 back edition, $145 on newegg right now, lots of combo deals
this is because there are only 4 gb of address space available using 32-bit addresses. to give a simple analogy using base 10 math, consider trying to put more than 100 addresses into strictly 2 digit form using only 0-9 for each value. there are 100 possibilities, from 00 to 99 to be specific. that last 1 gb of memory that you say is &quot;virtual&quot; is actually the memory reserved for various bits of hardware like sound, video, network and other parts. &quot;virtual memory&quot; is what an operating system takes off of the hard drive on a computer to use as extra memory space.
