i have a viewsonic lcd monitor and was wondering what was the best cleaning product to use. thanks
they make special lcd spray solutions. i use the stuff from monster on my dlp screen, so it should work fine on an lcd. check your local computer store.
click on this link , then click on step four and read towards the bottom. cnet says to take a damp cloth and gently wipe it on your lcd. i did what they suggested, and it worked fine. make sure you don't spray too much water.
just wanted to make sure i don't mess up my new monitor. thanks again.
so it is really critical to make sure that you know how to clean an lcd. there was this ad i saw about some sort of tough plastic to protect your lcd. it comes in a variety of sizes like 17inchs, and 19inchs, and is supposed to make text on lcds look clearer. it is so tough that you can actually use your lcd as a cutting board! i saw an ad for this in pc magazine. i'll try to find it and post back.
i believe this is the product i am talking about.  for some reason newegg only has a 19inch size. the ad i saw for this product had other sellers(newegg one of them). i'll try to find the magazine to check for the other sellers.
i think i'll just stick to the method that cnet mentioned in their cleaning lesson. thanks for the help though. i understand that that would probably be the best way to keep the screen clean but it's just too expensive.
with performance comes price. i won't be using my lcd as a cutting board so i won't need it. my lcd does get dirty, but a wipe with a damp cloth cleans it just fine. good luck.
to protect my lcd monitor's screen, i bought a piece of thin &quot;optical quality&quot; pexiglass from a local hardware store for roughly $7 -- had to cut it in half. taped it on up top. i wouldn't recommend this for everyone, since it is home brewed, but it is an option. i did it after a pair of round-nosed school scissors dinged my laptop's lcd; it keeps people from playing &quot;darts&quot; with my lcd monitor.
i bought this for my powerbook, and it works great. they include a chamois with the bottle. you spray, wipe, buff, and all the fingerprints, dust, and beveage splashes disappear. 20 bucks for 150 ml, but you use it [quite] sparingly for best results.
i used iklear, and moster lcd cleaners, but both left awful smudges and streaks. i later found out that they use polymers which do more harm than good. the shaggymac optimist prime lcd spray is the best laptop lcd cleaner i have used. when used with their microfiber it cannot be beat. even with my sony glossy xbrite screen, it leaves it perfectly clean. also the shaggymac laptop screen protector pads are awesome...a must have!
i use an office depot store brand product called &quot;screencleaner non-streaking&quot; and a scotch brite microfiber cloth which you can also get at od. spray on cloth and wipe on any off monitor. i use it on my tv too. this system is the goods. jv.
i use a 50:50 mixture water and isopropyl alcohol, moisten a microfibre cloth, wipe screen from one side to the other. continue down the screen til finished.
