i just bought a usb 2.0 pci host card to upgrade from 1.1. when i booted up after i plugged it in, my computer locked-up after about 20-30 seconds. it seems to be at the very end of the boot-up, right after i get the &quot;new hardware found&quot; message. the card is generic (i think), with an nec chip. i have windows xp home, which i updated fully through ms website, but problem occurs the same. problem goes away, with no side effects, when card is removed and re-booted. i have a p4 2.2 with 512m ram. lock-up occurs with card plugged in each of my open slots (to cover my bases). any ideas/suggestions would be much appreciated. thanks.
sounds like a faulty card or somekind of conflict with xp. maybe try the card in another machine and see what happens. z
your post neglected to tell what chipset the motherboard is since the motherboard drivers are often not updated by microsoft. this and more at  bob
i apologize for any ignorance on my part. i am far from an expert on this issue. i went to your website and downloaded bios agent, which reported my chipset to be: intel 1a30 rev 4. i have no idea what this means, but hopefully it is what you were talking about. thanks for the help. andy
where is that board you downloaded from and what utility? much like taking a car to a shop, the year, make and model are standard things you may have to reveal. your computer might have such names and model numbers so forum members can pitch in and here. also with every post is this tip! &quot;if you are asking for help to troubleshoot a computer-related problem, please be sure to include all the necessary information (ie: operating system, model number, hardware, software, etc) that will help others identify your problem for a speedy resolution.&quot; such helps so we don't have to ask for such information. bob
i had the same problem, this is how i fixed it; take the card out, download the cards drivers, then reintall the card. check your device manager to see if the card is intalled. if that doesnt work there should be a number to call the manufacturer.
thanks! i'll try it.
