all of a sudden, scanlines appeared on our monitor, and resetting the monitor's settings doesn't help. how do we get rid of them?
give the monitor make/model and what sort of graphics card it's attached to. also give other pc hardware information and the os you are using.
make: acer model #: v223w display adapter: ati radeon hd 4200 os: windows xp: home edition processor: amd athlon ii x2 245 is that enough info?
make, model, type, etc. lcd or crt?..and by scanlines do you mean some sort of vertical or diagonal thin traces that are there constantly or are they changing? my first thought is to try the monitor on another machine if possible and/or check your pc with another monitor. this considerably narrows the possibilities. you rule in or out what's the easiest to do. you can also see if the anomaly exists while running in safe mode. if you still have the scan lines in safe mode, it's more likely the monitor or display card. if not, you start looking at the driver, some setting, or the monitor's failure to respond to it properly.
i already told you the make and model of the monitor. i don't know what the difference is between lcd, crt, or any other type. the scannlines are thin horizontal lines that are constantly there, just like on old tvs except computer graphics aren't designed to work with them. we can't hook the computer up to another monitor. yes, the problem is still there in safe mode.
this is what that feature is for. try it. beats the heck out of swapping monitors, cards, drivers and gasp, service counters. bob
ok, here's what i'd do to rule out the os. can you download some &quot;live linux&quot; iso or even some utility iso and burn to cd. see if the lines are still there. if they are, it's not windows. you're left with the display card or the monitor or cable. if the cable is detachable, you can try another or just reseat things. i suspect you have. you're going to run out of options if you cannot try another monitor or plug this one into another pc but, if it came down to only the video display device or monitor, my guess would be the monitor has the problem.
i've already tried that.
you could try booting an ubuntu live cd as a test. no install. just boot and see what it shows.
it's still under warentee, so we're just going to send it in to get fixed.
