i have a pentium 4 ht 2.80ghz lga775 (pretty much a brand new cpu) socket, with a pci-e card. (nvidia 9400gt) and i need a new motherboard. i don't want to have to buy all new parts. here is the motherboard in question:  and i have g.skill ddr2 pc2-4200 i was wondering if my ram will work with the motherboard in the link? it seems to be the best board in question for it's price. thanks!
have ? there's somewhere between 20 and 40.  vapcmd
i have this one  i'm wanting to find a motherboarc compatible with this cpu, my g.skill ddr2 pc2-4200 ram with sata, and a pci-e 16x slot
any ram speed (in your case 4200) lower than the motherboard bus speed (&gt;4200 which happens to be ddr2 667 vs your ddr2 533) is going to create instability, lots of crashing is going to happen... it's like your ram a souped-up car, running on a 1 lane street (the motherboard) which will mean frequent shutdown, bsod, etc.. i tried running slower ram on faster bus speed board, never realising it until i've checked the specs of the board minimum bus speed for ram, and when i took out the slower ram, the system became stable... here's the link regarding ram and their bus/ i/o speed so you'll know which ram model to lookout for
that looks like what you might recycle out of your common dell, hp or other name desktop. when changing the motherboard from a name brand the os license fails on the new board. is that an issue here? bob
news is, the ram required ddr2-800 is faster than what you have and it's inexpensive. get a kit with 2 dimms 1gb each to take advantage of dual channel memory architecture. vapcmd
slow ram does not cause memory issues because the motherboard chooses the proper divider. it will autoconfigure itself for any standard speed: ddr2-533, ddr2-667, ddr2-800 and some handle ddr2-1066. slower ram can result in a more stable system since it doesn't push the mch hardware to its limit. this is why many small business servers still come with ddr2-667 as the base memory option.
it came out of a dell computer that the motherboard died on. i don't have alot of money, and all the ram, video card and harddrives were pur chased just last year to upgrade the dell. now i'd like to swap over the parts into a new board and in a new case so it's no longer dell.
if yours has a dvd drive you could look at windows 7 rc to run until next year for free. but don't count on windows that came with the dell to run. it might, it might not and we don't have a leg to stand on to demand a new license. bob
i'm just trying to replace the motherboard using the existing parts i have, the cpu, ram, video card, hard drive, psu, etc. all i need is the motherboard, i have everything else. i have a copy of xp, and vista. tl;dr. dell motherboard died, has all new parts, want to use parts out of the dell (which aren't dell branded) need motherboard compatable with a intel pentium 4 2.80ghz hyper threading socket lga 775, 04a cpu. i have pc2- ddr2-4200 ram. pci-e express video card, sata harddrive.
i know many get confused over oem, dell, hp and the windows license. let's just say it's onerous. bob
yes, all the parts came out of a dell. i just want a motherboard to use with the existing parts. my pentium four hyper-threading lga-775 o4a cpu, with my g.skill ddr-4200 ram. 2 x 1gb. my 9400gt 512mb pci-e card. that's all i ask. will the motherboard i posted work with it?
some may insist this means it's like a car. you change the tire and then get in and drive off. in this case it's not simple. you change the motherboard and while it does work the os will not run. your pc will not work as before. windows is not running. the computer works but will likely need a fresh install of windows but that oem windows may fail. i hope you see the problem. bob
i've got the disk to fixed that. i have a store-bought copy of xp and vista.
while in theory it will work, in reality there is always something. it looks like you'll be ok but will you be upset if there is some issue? bob
