have two strips of 128. if i buy a third of 256 do i have to arrange them so the biggest is in the first slot?
this is determined by the machine in question. most machines don't have such a requirement. bob
btw, this is a newly installed mb by pc chips with an amd k7 processor. ram is ddr333 pc2700 if that means anything. old winme still in place.
if it was me i would browse through the mobo manual and see if there was a ref to such an issue. if not, i would install the new stick in the next available slot and test.
it's a &quot;good rule of thumb&quot; to place largest ram first, but that's not absolute. alot depends on the ram mapping as the mtrbd. maker usually provides in how ram can be installed. check the manual, usually this is provided at thier support website for that model mtrbd. or actual manual or on driver/info cd provided. good luck -----willy
i don't know for shure, but you can bet that first the 256mb than the other 2.
it will run in any order, however, are they all same manufacture & quality? lower latency may be best first. mb size isn't that important as each memory row is accessed individually. if it seems to run worse, try just 256 mb stick alone, try various combos. it shouldn't have preceptiable effect. heck call main & mem manufacturers if you want more opinions. why not most expensive first? wear latex gloves when handling memory, -=never=- touch stick with bare fingers or it will resonate poorly due to skin oils/contaniments.signed:physician thomas stewart von drashek m.d.
when i first start in computers, in '83, i was always told that you put the fastest memory first (this is just a carryover from earlier times when you bought memory in nanosecond speeds - 100, 90, 80, etc. nanoseconds). next i was always taught that you should put the largest stick first, etc. reasoning being that what you're doing might require over 250mb and if you put 2 128s first then the &quot;overflow&quot; carries over to the 2nd stick, instead of just the 256 if it was put in the 1st slot. pretty simple explanation, of a complexe issue, but it'll get the job done.
should not make any difference. ensure that the computer is reading the memory. during boot up you should see, at the top of your screen, the memory being tested or at least displayed as total memory. you can also check total memory installed after boot through system properties.
just make sure that all sticks are ddr333 pc2700, or that the faster stick is backwards compatible. fsb is a issue here. and it's a rule of thumb to install the larger stick in slot-1.
unless specified by the motherboard manufacturer, install chips from the smallest size to the largest size. picture it this way, would you rathaer place a waterhose with a 2&quot; output into another hose with a 1&quot; output or the other way around? if the larger module is installed first and then you have to begin using the smaller ones then the larger one has to unload its supply into smaller &quot;waterhoses&quot; it's best to do it the other way.
