case&psu:antec sonata ii piano black steel atx mid tower 450watt  cpu:amd athlon 64 3200+ venice  motherboard:gigabyte sli socket 939 nvidia nforce4  memory: kingston valueram 2 x 512mb 184 pin ddr sdram ddr 400 (pc 3200)  vidcard: asus en 6600 gt  hdd:maxtor diamond plus 9. 80 gig (2 of them) 7200rpm-oem  monitor: acer al1715b black 17&quot; 12ms lcd 300 cd/m2 450:1 0.264mm pixel pitch  opt drive primary: lite on ide dvd/cd rom  opt drive secondary: nec black ide dvd burner oem  let me know what you guys think. its about 200 dollars over my target of a grand and thats before software. i could live with it but if you guys see any changes i could make for less money and relatively the same performance. thanks in advance you guys have been rad
my only question is why buy an sli mobo with a psu and vidcard that won't support it? i know value is good and it's a good compromise if you plan to go that route in the future. my philosophy is top-of-the-line or bottom, i would get an even cheaper vid if it's only a temporary card. good components all around should be a solid rig but no chest hair...yet
yeah i know it wasnt the best choice for a mobo with the bugdet and other gear i have listed. the graphics card isnt necessarily temporary as im hoping this comp will last me these next 3 years of college. i need it for cs:s n stuff. im majoring in pre-engineering physics since ee was impacted so i might need it for any kind of programs we will use but at the same time i dont ant to go over a grand. if you have any suggestions for a mobo that isnt sli and a vid card that isnt as quick but plays what i need decently let me know..and work with the parts i already have. thanks
&quot; my only question is why buy an sli mobo with a psu and vidcard that won't support it?&quot; why wouldnt you want an sli mobo??? he is ready for the future, your video card is fine, all you need to do is buy another and a bridge chip when you think your machine needs a good upgrade. keep the sli mobo. good ram, cpu, hdd, vid card - although the 6800 series will fall in price over the next weeks and months. superb choice on your case and power supply. i think that case is one of the best along with the p180. everything else is thumbs up be happy with your system konny
looks pretty good. my preference would be western digital or seagate on the hard drives. ps...you gave wrong link...should be:  did you read my post in the desktop forum on the same subject:
thanks for the help
all you need is the dvd burner, since it will do everything and save $22. you can add it later. if you do get both, make the burner the primary. your link for the hd is a 200gb with a limit of one, but it is a good drive. you could get one drive now and add the other one later. here is another hd option.  i assume that you are into gaming by the video card you choose. if not you could save money there. all in all a good system. by droping the dvd rom and the second hd will save $120, and you can allwise add them later. john
