i have this old mb and i'm not sure if it is working. i am wondering - if i remove everything that is attached to it (hdd, ram, cpu) but the power supply and i turn it on, what will happen? is it going to turn on in some way? will it show something on the display? is it going to be enough to see if it is working or not?
but for years we used a board with no cpu or anything as a quick way to power up a psu and provide a small load. the board we used was dead so it served a purpose (basic psu function test.) if you add a cpu+heatsink and speaker then that gets us up to the beep test. there will be no display without this plus ram and video card. i'll stop here. bob
having the mtrbd. connected to psu will provide a load and basically that's it. depending on the mtrbd. with speaker attached, it can beep away in protest or not. if cpu attached with speaker it should beep to some error code. you're not really testing the mtrbd. in any meaningful way, so i leave it at that. oh yeah, if you have access to those &quot;diagnostic slot card&quot;, i find those of no use, especially if the mtrbd. itself is at fault. as for display, you still need to attach or activate the video port. a bad mtrbd. can cause no display as it drags the video port down but again it could be the video itself, so having a problem requires some effort to resolve. it boils down to the time and effort to fix a mtrbd., you can buy another one, so how much is your time worth? tada -----willy
locate the mtrbd. button -----willy
thank you guys. that was quite useful piece of information. i have the time to try different things, because i will do it at work. and even if that was not the case, i don't get that much of a salary. 2 days to make it work will cost me less than a new mb . i'm 100% sure that the beeping and the cpu work fine so i'll try the beeping test .
ok, there are many beep codes so i will give you the most common. the beep codes come in groups of three, so 1-1-4 would be 1 long beep, 1 long beep and 4 short beeps. so:- 1 short beep from loudspeaker system board passed ok ( display adapter, memory etc connected. usual from a fully operational system ) no beeps dead system, check power supply, cpu,clock oscillator. cpu fan turns, very litte else happening, check cpu. keyboard lights flickered: if the keyboard lights flicker then go out but the computer does not boot, check cpu ic. if they always flicker, turn off then wait 30 seconds, then on again. there may have been a power-onsequence error or glitch at turn on. 1-1-3 cmos ram error one continuous beep check ram slots for ram inserted wrong or no ram ( known to happen when building boards) sometimes error message on screen 1-2-2 display error, bad display adaptor, adaptor needs re-seating. turn off before any adjustments. requirements: power supply, display adapter (if not onboard) monitor, cd-rom just connected to power lead (as load ) and power on switch to activate psu. as have said, these are the most common codes that i use, there are many more. hope this snippet helps someone out there. terry from dover, kent.
you said you had an old mb but it still has hdd, ram and cpu attached to it? or do you mean an old pc. i say you just power it all up with all the peripherals without dismantling them. that's better
