i have a: -laptop in fine working order -hard drive from my desktop that for some reason won't boot up to xp and has data on there that i want to recover. not sure what the problem is, but one of three things happen when i power up the comp: 1. the drive is not detected or there is some sort of error before xp begins to load; 2. xp will act like it's loading and take an extremely long time; or 3. i'll get to the xp desktop, but my wallpaper is gone and xp is frozen -and i am going to purchase a usb hard drive (something i should have done a while ago) is it possible to get the data from my old drive to the usb drive using only the above items and the necessary cables, etc? i don't have another computer with sata support, so absent some solution that i can conjure up here at home, i'm going to have to take it in somewhere.
you hopefully were not trying to boot that xp from the other machine? if so, that does not work. what can work is to put the old drive as slave or in the external drive and copy your files out. xp does not boot or run when we move it... bob
i don't want to boot xp from the desktop hard drive, although if i could i would so that i could then back-up my files to the usb drive. but what i have right now is a brick with data on it, and i was hoping i could power up that drive, connect it to the usb drive (maybe while it's connected to my laptop), and then transfer from my old drive to the usb drive.
let's say we have a brick. we need to get the hard disk out of said brick to be put into some usb case or slave on another machine. then we can copy the files out. hope this is clearer. bob
i just hadn't used an external usb drive before, and i was hoping against common sense that what i described above could be done. fortunately i just realized that i know someone who probably has sata support, so i'll have to give him a ring.
this includes a ready boost usb. if not follow bob's lead. thread untracked. how did &quot;thick as a brick&quot;. i'll be back in a minute.......... seems it was &quot;jethro tull&quot;:
so there is a way that i can turn my 250gb desktop sata drive into a usb back up drive, with some sort of enclosure? that way i could theoretically transfer my important data from that drive to my laptop, reformat the sata drive, and use it just like an off-the-shelf usb back up drive?
see here:  pick the one you like and install the old drive in the enclosure. connect the combination to any computer with usb 2.0 ports to get the info off of the old drive and save to the host computer or cd or dvd for later use.
provided you have no sata hd issues, then using this adapter has allowed access to data. this adapter is far more flexible than a simple usb enclosure, but check it out if it fits yours needs. goto:  look for ada-2020 or google for a picture/example. i've already used in cases like yours and the other way around too, getting laptop hd data. plus, as a quick way to test cd drives as well. tada -----willy
