hi all. with the recent hot weather here in uk (i know it is hard to believe) my pc has been getting quite hot. i get the warning beeps from bios and the northbridge passive heatsink has never been effective so i have a fan blowing air into the open side of my case. this is a good but a little noisy solution. the fan is blowing air over all the components in my case including the processor fan but the processor fan blows air away from the processor against the flow of air coming in from the external fan. i came to the conclusion that this is not good. can i take the fan off the processor heatsink and reverse it (turn it upside down) so it blows air onto the processor heatsink? or a little more drastic, cut the fan cables and reverse the polarity of the current? thanks for any suggestions.
that is not a good idea, go to a tech shop and find a pci slot card fan, they are inexpensive and easy to install.
many cases are designed or fall into the frt. fans=in and rear fans=out(exhaust). however, with the introduction of side fans, some are made to blow directly into the cpu to help cool it, yet others are venting it out. i fall into the group that vent it. in cases where the outside air just isn't as cool as it used to be, then blowing air in isn't going to help as it once did. as the other poster offered get your hands on a buss/slot fan to help. actually, reverse the side case fan rather than the cpu fan. the cpu fan is suppose to draw hot air away from cpu and the side fan is interfering in this process. all this is called &quot;airflow&quot; and thus secure cables/harness better and reduce obstructiosn to help it. also, clean out the system case as well. fyi- when things get hot here, i remove side cover and use a small 6in. household(personal) fan, that's far better than any case fan to help cool the system down. its quiet too. tada -----willy
...an eight inch personal fan, i have no side panel fitted on one side of the case because i test many configurations and swap out quite a lot. as to the direction of air flow in an open case i see no difference if the processor fan is reversed, whichever direction the air flows its...air flow. any moving air is cooler than still air. i see the point when the case is closed when air needs to be pulled away from the processor but in the open case and personal fan situation like i have reversing the processor air flow makes sense because at the moment the processor fan is fighting against the incoming air flow from the personal fan. i am also toying with the idea of buying a four inch persoanl fan and suspending it inside the case over the processor heatsink and removing the processor fan. this i think would be an excellent cooling option. by the way my processor overheating is set to its lowest 60c and i only get the beeps warning when gaming and turning on the personal fan stops the beeps.
the most part cpu hs fans blow air downward toward the cpu but there are exception. it all depends on the design. if the chipset is running hot....there are better passive heatsinks and heatsinks with fans. here's one place that specializes in these parts. you'll see they also carry an endless variety of case fans that might help too.  i solved a defective chipset hs fan with a zalman passive cooler. good luck and let us know how it works. vapcmd
most cpu fans have the air drawn away from the cpu. heat rises even if on its side, the fan accomplishes this quite well. what may have happened, if this isn't the oem fan or diy setup, it just reaches it best optimum performance. i suggest then you get a better hsf setup that's capable of handling that cpu but is capable of any higher level cpu as well, to assure best operation. also, some hsf arrangements get pretty wild, so i don't know what yours is, i can only suggest further to be sure proper hs compound is applied as it should, don't over/under do it as that decreases efficiently and tighten evenly when mounting. whatever you do, understand if the cpu isn't cooled enough you may not like the result. i mention that as removing the fan is very iffy. i've seen pretty interesting &quot;cooling mods&quot; so do whatever cuts it. heck a plain old 14in. home fan(quiet?) can do as well. then there's oil immersion of the whole system and of course water setups. tada -----willy
i've never seen an intel or amd factory hs fan that draws air away from the cpu. all those i've seen push air down over cpu to transfer the heat. adding to that i've had a number of aftermarket hs fans (alpha, akasa, thermalright, etc.,) where the fan mounted on top and only one of those (can't remember which one) specified pulling air away versus pushing cool air over the cpu as slightly more efficient. with today's aftermarket units where the fans mount on the side vice the top...the fans still push versus pull air over the heat sink fins vapcmd
the heatsink is blowing air onto the cpu. where did i get the idea that it wasn't? i think some old fans used to blow air away from the cpu. regarding the northbridge overheating problem, i've seen some chipset fans advertised online which stick to the chipset. i've also read that when the chipset gets hot they fall off. any views or experiences on this?
place only by thermal tape. the only heatsink fan i had to replace was on an asus mb which suffered from early fan failure and asus took forever to make replacements available. i replaced the failed factory unit with a passive heatsink (zalman zm-ng47j) which used pushpins to hold it in place. bottom line, i would be very reluctant to buy or use any chipset hs with passive or active cooling that would only be held in place by tape ... especially for use in a tower case. guess you could use an epoxy thermal compound but later removal would be much more difficult if not impossible without damaging the mb. vapcmd
...you can accomplish anything. i do not recommend the following methods or practices unless you are a fully certified lunatic like me! take an old processor fan which is too big for the chipset, drill some holes in your motherboard to fix over northbridge chipset, locate an extra fan power connecter or cut up the existing one and tape the cables to it, and hey presto! a cool chipset. really don't try this on your main pc get some old gear and pimp your mobo!
how could one drill holes in their motherboard? have you ever done this? a motherboard is made of traces and several layers of traces you can't see. good luck.
i have never seen anywhere where the power supply fan is considered part of the total cooling picture, but it is. that fan pulls air out of the top of the case. case fans often are installed to both pull and push. when you think about it, blowing air into the case assists the power supply fan by pressurizing the case. fans which blow out of the case work against the power supply fan by de-pressurizing the case, and if they are controlled by mb temp, they probably come on when the ps starts needing extra cooling because everything is working harder. so it makes sense to arrange the fans to blow outside air into the case (it'll be cooler than the air in the case) at all times. most cases are nowhere near airtight anyway, so a lot of air will be simply vented as well. as for hot air rises, it does in still air, but it takes very little breeze to de-stratify warm/cool air, so as long as fans are running, forget about convective cooling. i have 2 case fans, both mb controlled, one is relocated on the side panel to blow on the video card when it's working hard and the other is on the back panel and blows toward the cpu. even when they are not running, the ps fan is pulling air through the fan openings to where it is needed. use your own head and think things through.
much area free of traces to drill thru. chances are the fan would work but the patient (read 'motherboard') is not likely to survive. vapcmd
there's never gonna be an ideal air cooled system, whichever way you look at it as long as air is circulating (even round and round in a circle) it's cooler like running water doesn't freeze as easily as still water (remember physics lessons at school). the best solution is liquid cooling but sorry to say expensive. if you really want to see how the air in your case is moved around, take off the side panel and hold a lit cigarette inside and watch where the smoke goes or use some kind of smoking device. or the extremem, extreme solution is submerge the whole case in light oil like the oil used to cook with(have you seen the video where this is done?) oil doesn't conduct electricity so all components work fine without any fans and its noise free but maybe a little messy.
the processor fan extracts all heat from the processor and removes it out of the cpu so that your cpu doesn't get heated. no need to change it's position. it can cost you a whole cpu to whole computer. anyway, what temp bios is showing? till 50-60 degree(c). it is okay. if it is beeping in less temp than that, disable the waring beeps in bios.
fan located at the rear of the case is pushing air into the case versus pulling warm air out ? is there a case fan at front of case ? are you using an aftermarket cpu hs fan ?  (note: see pic showing case from rear where you can install two fans) vapcmd
not a good idea. will most likely create a system error/warning and shut the system down to protect it. replace the thermal paste first if this fails to improve the problem then get a better cpu cooler.
you can't tell what areas are free of copper traces just by looking at the surface of the motherboard. re-read the last post. motherboards are multilayer printed wiring boards, six or eight layers or more. just because you see an area with no traces or just a large ground plane doesn't mean there isn't wiring underneath in the inner layers. unless you have x-ray vision, don't do this.
but i did take the time to look a working mb. based on close observation on an msi mb there wasn't enough area to drill any holes assuming the small clear area were trace free. if you want to contest the issue... please take it up with the poster who suggested it or better yet, refocus on the question originally posted. vapcmd
like i said my case never has the left panel fitted (left as in looking at case from front) so all this pressurized stuff, which i think is nonsense anyway no off-the-shelf case is pressurized, is irrelevant. all i said would it hurt to reverse the cpu fan and it doesn't i've already tried it and there is no difference in heat dissipation, cpu runs at same temp.
the fans used in computers are dc brushless, meaning you can not reverse the power to the fan with out toasting it. what is the temperature of the room? i have seen people trying to run computers in attic lofts and such where the room temp is so high the cooling fans just can't do it.
yea, applying heatsink or thermal tape in between your fan and processor can reduce your pc temp drastically. it works for me properly.
heatsink fans blow toward the cpu. the air will of course bounce back off the cpu and to the sides. pushing cool air towards something is more efficient at cooling than pulling hot air away. this is why you are cooler sitting under a running ceiling fan when its blowing on you, rather than it running in reverse (it will pull from the sides rather that directly below it/ you wouldn't feel a thing)
i have talked to three computer engineers about this subject. they all agreed with me. one of them is a chief in a computer manufacturing company. sorry but cannot call name of the company or person in public.
here's my experience over 20 plus years and initially i thought the same as they did. if you look at fans mounted on intel or amd cpus....they all blow air downward over the heatsink toward the cpu. second where the fan sits on top of the hs and the fan could be mounted to blow up or down, i've only seen one mfg (alpha cool) out of the many many aftermarkets hs fans recommend the fan pull air thru the hs upwards. otherwise they blow air downward toward the hs and cpu last, believe if you look at the vast majority of high-end aftermarket hs fans, you'll find the fans blow toward the heatsink...not away from it. if you find multiple examples to the contrary ...where the mfgs specifically recommend the fan be mounted so as to pull vs push air through the hs...let me know. otherwise i'll continue to think as i do now. if you need heatsink mfg names, try frostytech.com. vapcmd
man i'm talking about normally mounted fan. not any additional installed fan. my point is that he shouldn't change it's position. the side upward or downward depends on the design of the motherboard. he will damage the processor or whole cpu if he tries to change his fan's position when his motherboard design doesn't allow it.
i didn't expect such a response to my post so i did some temp. testing. the cpu is an amd dual core, 95 watts, running at 2.8ghz (not overclocked). standard fan supplied with cpu upon purchase. motherboard is a gigabyte ma770-ud3. os is windows 7 (which has many less background services running compared to vista), bios is award modular bios v.6.0. cpu warning temp. is set to lowest 60c/140f. case side panel is removed, the only other fan in the case is the psu fan. cpu heatsink fan is blowing (pushing) air down onto heatsink. thermal paste is used. room temp. is 17c and cloudy (not cloudy in the room). program used to report core temps. is 'core temp.' i checked the temp at two points. core temp. at idle (no apps running, only normal background services) = 36c. core temp. when playing game (dead space) 48c. not a significant heat increase considering the machine is running a demanding game and well within the warning setting. turned off machine swapped out fan and heatsink for the reversed airflow fan sucking (pulling) air away/up from the cpu, applied thermal paste same quantity as before. same test applied. core temp. at idle 36c. core temp when playing game 50c. a two degree difference, when gaming, between pushing and pulling airflows. this was on a mild day. when i recieved warning beeps in the past the room temp. was 26-27c, a big increase. this is what led me to use an external/personal fan to aid in the cooling of the cpu and northbridge passive heatsink which on this board really has serious overheating issues. make of this what you will.
read my post above. it clearly says no need to change the original position. no matter it is upward or downward. just install an additional fan if you want. i must say there is no need to worry at all. all the new processors come with thermal protection.
in my experience the thermal tape that comes attached to the cpu heatsink is not good for two reasons. 1. it is inadequate cooling. 2. it sticks the heatsink to the cpu. my 2nd point was proved once when i sent my computer overseas. when i examined it upon arrival the heatsink had come loose and was hanging by its power cable. attached to it was the cpu with some of its pins bent. in an attempt to rescue the cpu i tried to separate it from the heatsink. it took around 10 minutes to prise free with a chisel. when cool heatsink tape is a superglue, not like thermal paste which retains its fluidity.
thermal tape is a tape used in between cpu fan and the cpu. same is heat sink &quot;paste&quot; but it is in liquid form. their job is the same, remove heat from the cpu. as far as liquid heat sink paste is concerned, i myself use it, it will fully dry in 1-2 years. see what my motherboard manual has written in it, &quot;the heatsink may adhere to the cpu as a result of hardening of the heatsink paste. to prevent such an occurrence, it is suggested that either thermal tape rather than heat sink paste be used for heat dissipation.&quot;
there's no need or significant benefit to reversing the hs fan airflow in most cases. think i said that about 10 posts back but who's counting. and since you brought up opinions of 'experts', someone needed to address the misinformation that as fortune would have it, the original poster tested and proved wrong. regarding 'damage the processor or the whole cpu if he tries to change his fan's position when the motherboard doesn't allow it' ....there's not many cases where changing the fan position or direction would damage either the processor or the cpu.. it just isn't a pass - fail, run - not run, difference. no need to cause undo alarm or more confusion here. vapcmd
i had to repair a hp pavilion 6835 system. its an older system and it would just shutdown and reboot. upon inspection, i found the psu fan was seized. this is a mini-psu with a fan exposed to the outside of the psu box but within the system case. this in turn blows directly onto the cpu hsf. i cleaned the hsf as good as new. i had a used psu to install to replace the old psu as the caps were also bad, thus i wouldn't trust old psu. installed and still the system would repeat failure. i then noticed the psu fan was reverse of the what the old psu had as mounted. i then reverse the new psu fan to be correct. the system now runs well and doesn't falter. i has also refreshed the cpu paste as the thermal tape had dried-up and wasn't as effective. so, it all depends on how a system is build to handle its &quot;airflow&quot; and just what works in one system won't necessary in another. in this cases the cpu hsf needed the extra cooling provided by the psu fan. fyi- the old replacement psu came from an emachine system. adios -----willy
sorry for any misunderstanding. i was actually replying to the post a few posts up. i replied to yours only because that location seemed to preserve the continuity of the conversation better. if that was bad form, i apologize:)
all you need is one of those zelman fans so that the fan directly blows strait out back . zelman heat sink fans are very good for cooling and it's the copper ones that you want as you know its good at removing heat .also you need decent thermal compound that is what most computers now use for thermal solution i suggest you get silver based thermal compound and all you need to do is spreed a fin layer on to the cpu.
