in march 2008 i purchased a &quot;two year&quot; on site service plan for an hp computer puchased in april 2007 (the previous year) at a cost of $160. last week i got an email notice that i needed to renew, although only one year had passed. i spent hours on the weekend speaking with personnel in india, who told me that indeed the extended warranty began with my computer purchase in 2007, even though i purchased the extended service plan in 2008!! nothing of the sort had been explained to me when i purchased that plan. i was assured that any problem i couldn't solve would bring a hp tech to my house. yesterday, (monday) i was told i needed to consult with a &quot;tech&quot; person rather than a &quot;warranty&quot; specialist. the bored and sullen male technician,an american, once again confirmed that the 2-year plan actually begins from the date of purchase, even if that turns out to be a year earlier! this explanation was omitted in the actual contract hp sent me by email. without such explanations, no contract has meaning. one has to trust the salesman, who can say anything. i then mentioned that frequently, my computer couldn't be re-started without pulling the plug in the back of the pc. he said i needed to remove everything and start over, and that no technician would come to the house unless it was a hard drive problem. since i have a month left on my &quot;service&quot; plan, i asked if he could do a diagnostic for me. &quot;how much time do you have,&quot; he asked. i said i've already spent hours on the weekend, and would like to get soemthing for my money during the remaining month of my service contract. i mentioned that a phone diagosis had been done in march, 2008, when i also purchased the service plan. i then asked him to begin the diagnostic, and, with a sigh, he hung up. so i'm left with a meaningless emailed contract with no detales, plus hours of uncompensated time going though hp's artificial hurdles. they were successful n wearing me down. i note i was forced to buy vista when i bought my computer at best buy, with whom i had a warranty for the first year of purchase in 2007. at the time i added the extended warranty from hp in 2008, i asked about replacing vista with xp. the answer was that hp would not provide service unless vista remained in my computer. my future solution will be to use a established locally owned computer store and service with a good reputation, who gets your computer back the next day, and teaches customers about their computers. i could use the education. post 11 of 11 | back to top
when i bought my hp computer they tried to get me to buy their extended warranty. the techs at circuit city advised against it and said it's a total joke if anything goes wrong in the warrany period to get it repaired. their advise was buy the extended warranty from where you purchised the computer, that way if something does go wrong you can go face to face with who you bought it from and they speak english so you can understand them instead of the gibberish you get when you call hp tech support. i didn't buy from either which was lucky as circuit city is now out of business. anything with hp anymore is &quot;we got your money so don't bother us&quot; i have had a hp printer problem and it's compatibility problem with vista for the past 2 years and they refuse to do anything about it even though it is a known issue with me and thousands of others. i finally bought a kodak printer that worked right out of the box and gave my hp printer to my grand kids who's computer has xp, problem solved.
squaretrade gets rave reviews from those who've bought warranties from them. the warranties are significantly cheaper, and they seemingly provide excellent service. i have three warranties with them now, but personally can't speak to how well they service when you need them. but plenty of other people can speak about it, and have. worth checking out. find them online.
