hey. i also am encountering the problem with the hp pavilion f1703. i have read most of this forum and am sure that my tft has the same old problem. it goes to black in a few seconds until a new screen turns up and shows that for 2 seconds and then goes black again. when i use a bright flashlight i can see that the tft is showing something but way to dark. so this way i'm sure i am dealing with the problem many people are facing. the point is, i am dutch and find it hard to understand the names in english of the objects that need to be repaired or re-soldered. also am i not quite sure of what needs to be soldered to what. i mean, are there things that need to be soldered together or just back in place? there are these silver linings on the the green board (how professional does that sound ) and i find it hard to see or understand if the soldering should be attached to that or not. hopefully someone can help me and is this topic not yet out-dated. looking forwards to your reactions. greets jasonvoorhees13
has many items and even some web sites that detail with pictures the most common issue and how to fix it. bob
i have read all posts that seemed helpful to me. but my question is one of a more technical nature. i don't know what i need to solder. on this site:  i can't see what is broken in the circled soldered bit. i mean, what is wrong with it? and should it touch the silver lining/print on the green board? that's basically my question. i know i do not come forward as the most technical person by asking these questions, but i hope people will help me anyway. thanx.
finds beginning soldering tutorials. the picture is all most need since we only need to melt the solder (also known as reflowing) since it lost electrical contact and the reflowing will reconnect the parts. bob
so if i get it right: i only would need a soldering iron because the solder on the green board only needs to be made fluid again so it melts in the right shape? is there a risk of melting the solding the wrong way, so that it's connecting the wrong things and thereby causing short-circuiting? or other permanent damage?
for me, i'd want the solder iron and just a &quot;taste&quot; of fresh solder with it's flux to refresh the failed joint. maybe you have a friend that does this? as to connecting the wrong things, the article about the monitor does not show any added wires so... no. bob
