for a while my computer would stop dead. screen would freeze, keyboard wouldnt respond, i couldnt even turn it off by holding down the power button. now im lucky to get it to do anything. a few times while changing out ram i got a boot screen indicating a change in memory, but then it would freeze again. ive tried my video card and power supply in another computer, and they are fine. ive disconneced everything but the ram, hard drive, and video card(no onboard). ive even tried without the hard drive, and ive switched ram around. any every time i get no response. if i have the keyboard plugged in it will light up at the very first moment of powering up, but even after several minutes it will not respond. so a assume its a motherboard/processor problem. i was wondering what things i can do to troubleshoot. im actually okay with one of them being a problem, because ive been meaning to replace them. but i would like to be sure that would fix it first. thanks for any help...
but that symptom is consistent with the bad caps plague (google bad caps.) not only you but a lot of members are leaving out details which makes any reply just a bad guess. bob
i'll look in to that. in the mean time, what other details should i include?
watch as you post for the words in red.
i'm running windows xp pro sp2. i have a pentium4 (3 ghz i think). motherboard - intel d915gav. 2 512 600mhz corsair memory sticks. ati x1050 pcie video card. westerndigital 80gb hdd. and corsair hx520w psu. i've been testing all my components in another computer. everything seems fine psu, ram, video card, hard drive. and i've tried the ram and psu from the other computer and i get the same results. when i put the other computers ram in my computer i did again manage to get the motherboard boot screen telling me about the change in ram. but it froze again at this point. and i can't get that screen back again. i've gotten it about 3 times out of at least 40 or 50 boot ups. if i've got a case of bad caps, it's not apparant. everything looks okay and no smells. but from what i read that doesn't rule it out.
the symptoms are consistent with bad caps, missing heatsink compound and just bad boards. but remember there were never any diagnostics to test it down to the board so we use the story and inspect the caps to give our diagnosis the best results. sounds like a bum board. bob
