hello, i've been looking at 3 computers one is a sony viao, the other one is a systemax and the the 3rd one is a v2 premier. can anyone tell me something about these or give me some advice please, so i don't make a major mistake for the second time? thanks, sky
my experience with sony support on a dozen office laptops has me writing that sony needs some serious whacks around the head about after-sale support. out of the 12, 6 died immediately and we spent untold hours shipping and on the phone about the units. in the end, the sony story was these were not suitable units to be placed on a business desktop for use during the day. in otherwords, you should only use them for an hour or two at a time. nothing in any printed literature noted such a limitation but it may have been true since we could only manage to eek usage out of the units by having the users shutdown during lunch. another issue with a sony is they pretty much treat it like a tv. if you change the os or add a device, the support vanishes. while this can be true with other vendors, sony seems to be more extreme with this. as to the other makes, such are clones and one would have to rip off the lid and survey what's inside to tell. why not a dell/hp? bob
thanks for the info and the warnings, i am now looking at a dell pentium 4,2.6 ghz, 533 mhz, 512 kb front side bus, l2 cache, intel 845 gu chipset, 16x max dvd w/software decoding, dvd+rw/+r w/cd-rw, 3.5 diskette drive, 512 mb sshared single channel ddr, 333 mhz sdram, 4 dimm slots and a 120 gb hard drive. does this sound like a fairly decent unit for 2,000.00? it also has a 3 year in house warranty. it also comes with a 19&quot; ultra sharp flat panel monitor. thanks, sky
1. the dvd recorder is not of current technology. the non-multi-format dvd+r/w or dvd-r/w drives are going for abotu 69 bucks retail. the package you have may be trying to soak you for a recorder that is going to annoy you as you may want to record on either plus or minus (dash?) media. 2. 2,000? is that cnd (canadian?) for 2,000 you should be able to do better. keep the money in your wallet and keep shopping. don't accept a dvd recorder of a single format and especially without dvd authoring software. additionally, windows movie maker does not qualify as good dvd software. bob
i don't know exactly what it is you are looking for in a home computer, but this looks like it should work for what you seem to be looking for, but you have buy a seperate monitor and speakers, but it will still end up cheaper than 2,000 here is what i think might work for you  there are other desktops on that website too. good luck
