i'm seeing close to 100% cpu usage in most things i do with my pc. surfing the web or moving files around show normal usage for the most part, but games, my tv tuner when recording, or playing video files make it shoot up. task manager shows nothing unusual. scanned with spybot, ad aware, and avg anti virus. i asked this question on another board, was told to post my hijack this log, nothing unusual showed up. i identified and removed a half dozen processes, and removed some startup items. no change. so i unplugged my logitech usb gamepad, removed and cleaned my cpu fan and the cooling fins, then removed my video card and cleaned the fan. both fans were pretty filthy, but it didn't make much of a difference. any thoughts? asus a7n8x-x amd xp2200+@1.8 ghz 2x512mb pc3200 ram asus geforce4ti4200 wd80, wd200 gig hdd 2x lg dvd burners 350 watt psu
thats kinda odd, if i look at my own pc. the only time when the cpu usage goed higher is when i compress files, encode video, goes close to 100% when i do some of these cpu hungry tasks at the same time, it might be that your pc is paging to much to the hard drive meaning that u have to many apps open at the same time or to much files (garbage like temp, cache and page files on your hard drive ) how large are your partitions, try slitting your primary hard drive 20 gig and 60 gig, and load windows and the necessary apps to the 20 gig, all the other larger files including video files etc. and games on the 60 gig, you can also use the 200 gig and do the same but not everything on one hard drive(but this must be the last resort ) i still think there is some application or even external hardware that might use your cpu to function properly or keep up with something else. i know some older and cheap internal sound cards and modems used to abuse the cpu because they lack their own proseccing power.
the behavior you describe is normal. most retail games (fps, rts, etc.) are cpu intensive. recording tv can keep your cpu busy depending on the quality settings. even video playback can chew up your cpu if its high-res (such as dvd rip).
normal..... as the cpu does all the work of transfering data and commands. other areas that might interest you... in task manager open processes tab. here you can see the cpu usage by each application. or by clicking on view you can add or subtract columns. control panel, administrative tools, performace. here you can create graphs and logs to monitor all aspects your system. bill
i am running at hp pavilion zv6000 with xp home, sp2, an amd athalon 64 processor 3200+ with 994mhz, and 1.25g ram. and this 100% usage thing happens all the time. it will happen at what seems to be random intervals, but obviously it's not random. it will also do it for hours at a time. actually, it's doing it right now. looking at my processes in task manager, i have 86k from firefox, and 48k from thunderbird (and a few other programs are running from 48k to 20k). nothing too intense. the problem rarely alleviates itself after i close the programs down. it makes the whole system drag, and makes opening and closing programs really slow. i have no clue what to do. these are all common programs, and updated norton, spyware doctor, and ad-aware aren't finding anything. thanks for taking a look at this... anxious to see what you all think. luke
luke, which programs are you closing? i have maxed my cpu by having 15+ tabs open in firefox along with 3 other applications i have up and running. for me this is normal as this system was an emergency build: althon xp 2.0 on a gigabyte m/b with 512 mb memory. look in the control panel/ fast find and turn this feature off. look in msconfg/ startup tab, reduce the number of applications starting with windows. in task manager, open the performace tab/ view and check show kernal times. this will show you if it is windows or an application using the cpu. you are running an hp ... i've yet to see any of these systems have good performace. too many bottlenecks.... slow memory and m/b are the largest contributers. you may have to just live with the hi cpu cycles. bill
i had several applications enabled to auto-update. changing the setting to manual update helped me to an extent as autoupdates coinciding while using the comp for other works often showed high cpu usage. mohan
alright,i solved my cpu usage problem. turns out it was my video drivers. i was using forceware release 80, so i rolled back to 45.23 and it's all good. the 80 version also interfered with my usb mouse, making the cursor freeze until i rebooted. according to the nvidia website, 80s are supposed to work with my geforce 4 and were fine for a while. i might have installed some other program later that interfered with them.
