hi all: i bought a t6420 which includes a nvidia geforce 6100. is this video card good enough to play world of warcraft? or is it good to play current pc games like battefield, halflife2, fear etc...? i am not to familiar with video cards and its performance. thank you!
my son plays these games and i am looking for a new system with the geforce card. have an emachine now and looking at the model you have now as another computer in the house. how does it run in general? how are your other games running on it? everquest ii online?
keep this in mind: i had an hp pavilion computer (6 yrs old) with windows 98. in general computer runs great and fast. i had bestbuy to do a &quot;customization&quot; for #29 and they say it will cut time when you &quot;start&quot; your computer. basically it cuts down on software loading in the background. i am happy i pay for it since i dont know how to do it other than going to &quot;starup&quot; and unchecked the software manually. it has a media center and thats what i wanted cause of hooking it up with my 360 (which i did and its a plus). but, pc doesnt have the &quot;hook ups&quot; to connect your pc to your tv, but i am pretty sure there are other ways in hooking it up (im getting info on this). i havent played any games like you mention (everquest) that why i was asking if anyone else have. if you go to  it will give you a more understanding of what this chipset can do (i barely learning the pc language/technically). i am assuming that it will run good with &quot;low settings&quot; if you play everquest. but for doom3 it doesnt cut it (pcstats). but overall it is a great chipset for the money i paid for. hope this helps you a little bit!
the nvidia 6100 is comparable to ati xpress 200, both integrated graphics. however, like the ati chipset, there is a pcie slot for a better graphics card. yes, you can play those games on it, but at the lowest settings. i've played fear on the ati xpress 200 gpu and it wasn't very pretty. for optimum playing you're better to upgrade with a card.
thank you for your input greately appreciate it!
hi all: just to give you a quick status on how my computer has work so far just in case anyone is interesting on how this computer model performs. performance: it is a fast computer and runs smooth with no hesitation. programs load fast and quick (bestbuy did a customization to do this). i transfer my music files with ease (cd to hard drive). i downloaded an episode of tv-show &quot;lost&quot; to itunes and downloaded as fast as possible (less then 2 min). automically updates download fast. overall computer has perform well and as espected. gaming: since i am not a pc-gamer (only console gamer); i bought world of warcraft and downloaded. download was easy and without any pains. everything run smoothly on the game. keep it mind that i am a newbie at wow so i didnt went to fight any bosses or there was not so much action on my screen. everything look beautiful and crips. video card is powerful enough to play this game with it. i didn't do any &quot;adjustment&quot; to my video card. i let the &quot;default&quot; settings and it runs smooth. problems encounter: i had one problem encounter with this computer and not sure if it was me that cause it or something else. i went to nvidia websites and try to download &quot;new drivers&quot; for graphics card. since i didnt pay much attention to what i was doing. i click on the download drivers and start downloading process. in the process the system just lack me out and game me error message. so i had to shut down my computer. once i login back i notice that i didnt have access to the internet. so i decided to download my &quot;roadrunner&quot; disc to have access again. when i did it gave me a message that i didn't have a &quot;nic&quot; connection (network internet connection). at first i that what the hell is going on. since i am not a pc guy and read the instruction booklet and decided that my best bit is to go back and ask the system to &quot;restart me at the last time when my pc was working&quot; (something to those lines). so i did, and walla; everything works. the only bad side of it is that i had to reload wow but that was no biggie. basically what i am saying is watch out if you download any nvidia drivers. overall: i am happy to purchase this computer, media center works wonderful with xbox 360 the downside doesnt have a tv turner but you can purchase that at a later time and installed it. video card is powerful enough and if you go to pcstat and do a search of (geforce 6100) it will give you all the stats and performance of the chipset and video. in there it says that it is a good chipset and performs well above its competitors.
thank you for replying. i am still looking at upgrading to this video card for my son, and still researching it. looks like it takes more psu to run.
thank you for the reply. everyone seems to like geforce card. we had originally upgraded with a ati card, but feel the geforce one will be better suited to crisp gaming.
i just got a gateway pc with the 6100 integrated graphics and i can run doom 3 at medium setting fairly smooth. the processor is the athlon x2 4200.
before i start, i want to confirm that the computer does have a pci-e x16. hmmm... i don't think emachines put in powerful psu's, maybe a 400w. some gpu's will work great with 400w, but most will not. do you have a set price range for getting a new gpu? factor in the price of a new psu, maybe $50 or so. if you want less than $200, i'd recommend a 6600gt, or even a 6600. but a much better deal would be to spend $30 and get a better-performing 7600gt. it is about 30% faster than the gt, and for *just* a little more. then for *just* a little more, well, actually, a little more than a little more, is the 7900gt. it is the second best card from nvidia and is only for $299. this is just my opinion, though. they all are great cards, but the 7600gt seems like the best option. also, what resolution will you be playing at, and any aa or af? thanks! ~ibrahim~
forgot to post the link from the site:  ~ibrahim~
