i've been having an issue with my computer lately, it started out happening very little, now its happening basically each time i start, and wake up from sleep mode on my computer. here's the issue, if i put my computer in sleep mode, it wakes up, the fans come on, but there's no display on the monitor, i have to hold the power button down and reboot. the computer doesn't have any display after i reboot. i have to keep rebooting the machine, like 20 times to get it to work.. any idea on what the problem is? i'm thinking it's the video card, or maybe the motherboard. sometimes the screen flashes black, and a message pops up saying &quot;video card driver stopped responding, but recovered.&quot;, or something like that, also, the computer freezes at times, and the same thing happens with no display. oh, and sometimes when this happens, there's no beeps when attempting to start the machine. thanks oh, and here's the specs. sparkle 9600 gt 2gb 4gb's ram phenom 9950 quad-core asus m3n72-d motherboard windows vista 64 bit
are you sure its in sleep mode? or hibernate? when i had this problem with my dv2213cl the support agent told me it was caused by a boot issue, it just would not boot out of hibernate or sleep long story short i had to send the computer to be serviced and they ended up missing the commitment date and i had to end up calling them only to be told that they found nothing wrong with the computer ( but that they were working to fix the problem) well it came back with something that did not need to be fixed and the problem still was the same i had to end up re imaging the hard disk to make it work again to sum it up i was out of a computer for little over a month since it was being fixed by support.. good luck ..
i'm having the same problem, except i don't use sleep mode, it's just when i boot it up. i've found out a few things about it: one, if i reseat everything it stops having the issue, but that's temporary and it will soon start doing it again more frequently, and two, when i kick it right after i boot it it has a better chance of starting up, but i really don't like doing that because it's potentially harmful to the hardware. even so, this tells me something is seated incorrectly or loosely, but if that's the case i can't figure out what it is because i've gone through every connection on the board, a few times each, and they all seem to be fine. i can't send it to be repaired because it's a custom, but right now i'm pretty stumped and i can't find any help, and this is the first thread i've come across which has the problem i'm having. please, if anyone knows how to fix this, share. thank you.
@nancy oh i forgot to say, i reimaged the harddisk a few times, it's not helping.
i found out a few things today, i have a few im programs that auto start when windows boots, i had my friend see if i signed onto the the instant messenger, to see if my computer even made it to windows, and he said i logged on, so obviously windows is booting. i'm guessing this is a problem with the graphics card..
