i have lost my designated drive letters. the first clue something was wrong when i tried to burn a cd and i got an error in the burning telling me the process wasn't able to be completed. i found this to be odd so i just tried it again thinking maybe it was some one time thing, (with a different cd) and got the same problem, at that time i was burning a data cd so i tried again to burn an audio cd using a different program, (the first was the windows writeable folder, the second was windows media player) but it wasn't showing a drive and by then i knew there was something wrong, so i shut down the computer and tried again. again no drive letters and i look in the device manager and it shows the hp dvd writer is disabled, try to enable and it doesn't work. i checked the cords in the back of the dvd rom after shutting it down and everything was secure. please help me. thanks
with power-off, reseat the cd cable harness several times, just do it at both ends. boot-up, does the system see it and recheck the device mgr. again. if it still fails, visit this website:  and use the fix for missing cd drives or similar. understand after all this doesn't fix the problem, you probably have a bad cd drive, it just wore out, replace. it will probably be the best fix w/o all the testing, etc.. of course use a cd cleaner to clean the drive innards as well blow out using canned air. also, it would be nice to know what drive you do have, like in model#, os, burner s/w, etc.. tada -----willy
is anyone aware of any utilities available to restore the cd-rom on a win98 or win98se? the pc is a sad piece of atticware (dell optiplex, 200mhz processor, 64mb ram, 1.9gb hdd) that my sister got for free. the cd-rom has power, but won't load any disks, and doesn't show up as a drive anywhere (including bios?!!). i have utilities i can use to squeeze a little more out of this pc and get her up and running, but i dread having to dig out all my old floppies and loading everything to them. i haven't cracked open the case yet(god forbid), and told my sis maybe we should just go look for something slightly less intimidating to my newfound geek skills...
you didn't say if your running xp ,or what?but your best bet is to go to device manager and uninstall the driver and let windows reinstall it.hope it works.
i had the same problem.there were no cd rom or writer icons in &quot;my computer&quot;.in the device manager the icons were there but with yellow marks.the properties showed that&quot;windows finished loading the drivers but could not find the hardware&quot;.error code 41.i tried everything possible but in vain.re formated and installed xp.now everything is fine.still don't know what caused the icns disappear!
