i have a canon pixma mp170 all in one printer/scanner/copier. i bought it in 2005 installed it on my computer, windows xp operating system and it worked fine. i have a 200gb hard drive with plenty of space, 1 gb of ram, 2.4mhz processor. my computer crashed in march 2006. i reinstalled all my software but the computer cannot find the scanner. it has found the printer which works brilliantly. i have deleted and reinstalled all the canon software to no avail. if i click on &quot;start&quot; go to &quot;control panel&quot; then &quot;scanners and cameras&quot; the scanner is not there. if i click on &quot;add device&quot; nothing happens. i have rang the canon help line, they downloaded the latest drivers and it still doesn't work. the tech. said it must be something to do with my operating system. i would appreciate any help. thanks john
install the latest motherboard drivers. bob
cheers bob. i'll give that a go tomorrow (saturday) kind regards john
hi bob, tried that and i got lost. i'm probably not doing something right. my scanner works on another computer so it is definitely something on my computer. it still doesn't recognise the scanner. i have checked with norton and it's nothing to do with the firewall or security system as it still was not recognised when they were turned off. i'm now looking for remote assistance for someone to check my system through. i did use cnet 24 once but i can't find it now. kind regards john
i'd need more clues to do more. no make, model, specifics on the host pc make this a bit tough. i didn't see a sp1 or sp2 listed so that's missing? bob
hi bob, i have sp2 i've just signed up to webex.com for remote assistance. i'll let you know if they sort it. kind regards john
something you might like to think about. i have two hp printers one dj350 and a 3in 1. both developed significant faults. the 3in1 would not print in word but would print a web page. the dj450 would not print in colour. we tried everything but could not improve the situation. some months later we had to re-install windows xp and lo and behold both printers worked perfectly. i have no idea what the fault was but re-installing the printer software didn't improve the situation. i have damaged my canon pixma mp170 installation cd and could do with a copy software or cd. can anyone help please? mike
