i started building a new computer that would not boot into windows. i thought that it was maybe the processor(amd sempron)because the mobo didnt directily say that it would take it. however, i ended up haveing the hd jumper in the wrong place. it works now. but the problem is when i took my old amd athlon 1800+ out of my other computer to test the new computer. i thought that if the 1800+ worked, then it was the sempron that was the problem(the 1800+ didnt work so went back to the other). when i reinstalled the 1800+ into my old system the computer would begin to start up.( fans, lights, hd, cds, floppy, all begin to start up) but within 3 seconds it shuts down, without a beep, without any signal to the monitor. it is strange. does anybody know what i did. did i fry the cpu? mobo? something? thanks tyler
the cpu and the hsf, put a new thin coating of thermal compound on it??? seems that it is overheating rapidly. get the d-----d cpu/hsf mounted properly before you try again. if it is shutting itself down, there is hope that the cpu has protected itself to our human intervention.
susceptible to overheating/crash and burning. proper installation with heat sink compound and hsf is imperative.
thanks i will try this. the thermal tape was basically gone, so i will try that. tyler
reapplying the compound was the trick. thanks for your help! tyler
alright, when i try updating my ipod, the system will shut down half way through the update. weird, because the system is relativly stable all the time except when i update. do you think the ipod is drawing too much power, is something wrong with the cpu, or short on memory? i dont know, i have racked my brain and i can't come up with an explination. one thing else happens. after the abrupt shut down if i try to restart, the fans and system will start, but the monitor will not have anything displayed(the light just blinks). if i wait for 5 mins or so and try again it boots up fine. do you think the heatsink isnt doing its job and the cpu is overheating? any help will be appreciated by te computer because i am about to kick it out into the middle of the street! tyler
read &quot;new problems&quot; first so it doesnt have everything to do with the ipod, b/c it just shut down again a few mins ago when i was just doin email. and unlike i said before, i dont have to wait any time to reboot. (it always follows this pattern:) 1.randomly shuts down after a while 2.i reboot. 3. i do a hard shut down by holding power for 8 secs. 4. i reboot and it starts up with ease. tyler
(look at previous posts) i cant figure out wether it is the cpu or another thing that is wrong. (logic suggests cpu since that is what i messed with) is it possible to shock a cpu and it still work for a while, and act like it is now? do you think that the new thermal paste is not doin its job causing it to overheat during intensive cpu use? please help, tyler
it does sound as if the cpu is still overheating. i would reinstall the cpu, being very careful that the thermal paste is applied properly. a thin even coat of paste is required. some use a single edged razor blade to apply the paste. the paste should be just thick enough that you can't see through it. if it is applied too thick or too thin, you can get undesirable results. best of luck
of the present situation in one post. i can't read all four while trying to respond. i just set up two monitors wonder if i can drag each post to a different spot on the monitors. the long delay before it starts makes sense for overtemped cpu, but that only happened once, possibly indicating that the video card overheated. does your video card have a fan?? is its heat sink clogged with dust?? maybe i misunderstood how often which symptom occurs. do you have any type of temperature monitoring?? how about in the bios?? when first booting the temp in the bios will not be high. after running a while reboot and go into the bios and check the temps.
