hi: i have purchased a webcam (model no &quot;sn9c103&quot; make tevion) in last year. this webcam was working perfectly fine with windows xp operating system loaded on my old laptop. i changed my laptop, which has &quot;windows vista&quot; pre-loaded on it. now i am trying to install this webcam on the new laptop and it is not getting installed. during installation, i am getting a message &quot;not enough storage is available to complete this operation&quot;. can anybody help in installing this webcam? warm regards chandrashekhar s. joshi
i had some trouble tracking this down. it is not a vista driver. i hope this is the brand name/manufacturer for this web cam. of the few sites that did list some form of driver for it, none said they had a driver for vista. seek out the manufacturer of this product and see if the driver is available from there web site. i had the same problem with a web cam and the simplest solution was to get a new one. also, i have mcafee site advisor on my computer and i don't believe i've ever seen so few sites reviewed or so many yellow warnings then i had on this search. where did you get that thing? there certainly in a bad neighborhood.
download & install this driver. it worked for me.
hi cris: thanks a lot for helping me out and sending the link. downloaded the drivers on the link given by you. but they do not work.
the 1st & 3rd driver on the list didn't work for me either, but i tried the 31 bit one and it worked immediately.
that other guy gave that drivers for it are available. the part number should be listed on the webcam or on the driver cd/dvd, if not check the settings program within all programs. some times drivers aren't created/designed correctly so they don't work. contact this site for assistance. one last note try totally uninstalling the driver before you install those available from this site. this will provide a &quot;clean&quot; install of the driver. over wrighting them sometimes causes trouble. a question do you like the webcam when it works? how is the hires? is it really clear?
what i did was uninstall using this driver, once uninstalled reinstalled then when asked to restart do it, once restarted it will ask to carry on 5 seconds later... done ready to use... this is the link you need...
hi maccy: thanks a lot. i tried the way you mentioned. now my webcam is working perfectly fine . thanks a lot for helping me out. warm regards chandrashekhar s. joshi
thanks also for the info but i cant link my web-cam to msn. msn tells me that my cam is either not plugged in or it &quot;busy&quot;. which is not the case. any further help you can offer????
hi joshi: thanks, thanks. now my webcam is working perfectly fine. i dnot speak english. thanks again.
hi maccy21: thanks, thanks. now my webcam is working perfectly fine. i dnot speak english. thanks again.
