my hard drive recently stopped working after my laptop took a fall. i replaced the hd with a new one and re-installed the os (win7) so my laptop is up and running again. here's the hard part, i used a usb to sata converter for my old hard drive to pull the data off, i've recovered a good portion of the files now how do i put them to use on my laptop with the new hd? i've copied the files from the old hd and saved them in a folder already. it's mostly pics, music, and documents. any help would be greatly appreciated.
you have a 2.5&quot; from the old laptop that allowed you to extract some data. i'd think you could buy a usb enclosure and put the drive in that and just reconnect it to the laptop. but what you didn't tell is what you've already put the old data on. you might offer that information.
i put the old data in a folder on my laptop. i tried to transfer the old files to the new hard drive by copy/paste but i ran into issues because i received an error message that i didn't have &quot;permissions&quot; to make any changes. so i created a folder called toshiba hd and dropped the old files in there. i don't think i can use the old hard drive as back up storage (or at least i can't afford for a professional to attempt to fix it for me) or i'd just buy another hd caddy and make it a salve to the other because there is a second bay to install another hd on my laptop. i'm basically just trying to get my old documents/settings, pics, and music back on my laptop. shame on me for not back it up, it'll never happen again.
on the same hard drive? then you should be able to put the old drive into a usb enclosure and copy out the data from there as long as the drive is still accessible. the other method would have been to use a usb flash drive. maybe i'm not seeing the issue properly but it seems to me that copying the data to other media would have been...and still might be...the way to go.
right, i was able to copy the data and create a new folder in my library on the new hard drive. the old drive was moderately functional. i just don't know what to do with the files to get my settings, documents and pics and music back to where it was. the files i copied don't say my documents or my music...when i open them it's like reading a foreign language, that's the reason i was trying to paste them to my new drive (c) but it wouldn't allow me to do that because i didn't have permission to do so (still not understanding that one). and i do appreciate your input in case i hadn't mentioned that before!
your &quot;my documents&quot; folders and sub-folder but just random files from the hard drive, did you? all you really needed was what you created or saved in the way of personal data and not files from programs. sorry, but i can't picture at all what you did now or what the files were. you said the old drive was &quot;moderately functional&quot;. is it possible that it still may be in that condition? if so, a usb enclosure might allow you access to your &quot;my documents&quot; folder to just extract what you have deliberately saved. there may also be stuff in the downloads folder if you used the default windows structure.
i'm going to head over to microcenter and purchase a usb enclosure, i have the hd in the freezer still so maybe i can fire it up again. i would like to try and take the info from there and put it back on my hard drive. i'm not too concerned with the drivers and what not, i replaced most of them using the back up cd but my documents, pics, and music are important. when i was copying the data from the old hd, i couldn't find any specific folders that had &quot;my documents&quot; or &quot;my music etc. and i had my win7 library set up with about 20 different subfolders as well but i guess i can kiss that all goodbye since i reinstalled the os after i replaced the hard drive. thank you for all of your help steven, it is greatly appreciated.
