i just got a second monitor, plug and play worked and was fine even though my main (laptop) was 1280 x 800 and the second screen is 1024 x 768. it went to sleep. i woke up my laptop, and both screens showed the waking up loading windows, then the second screen went black. before, it still let me use the second screen even though i couldn't see anything, now i can't extend to the second screen through display settings. if i try now, the laptop seems to get set to the lowest display settings possible, and the second screen stays dark. help?
when this happens to me, it's always the drivers. since it's a laptop your choices are limited but make sure you make a warranty claim if they don't support it by some driver on their web site.
i just restarted my computer with the monitor unplugged, plugged it back in after it was started, and now the second monitor works fine again. but i feel like as soon as it falls asleep and i try to wake it up, it's going to not want to wake up again. so it's not that it's not supported i think, since it does work, but it doesn't wake up after falling asleep. i've seen other forum posts like this but there weren't answers to those either.
laptops (which you didn't give make or model) are proprietary. you can make this a warranty claim now. i have no answers since there is so little to work with in your post. thus i only can share what it was for me, most of the time. bob
i have a gateway mt6840, and it says the display adapter is 945gm express chipset family. when the laptop went to sleep, the second monitor could turn on again, but when it hibernated, the second monitor stayed off, but was still there, ie i could move my mouse onto it, as well as other windows. thanks for your help. also, i'm out of warranty since i got it over a year ago.
i'm always wondering why people leave out the make, model in posts. why is that. -&gt; but tell me what date driver you are using. i see the drivers at  and the date looks to be 2/15/2008. again, for completeness i'll install the latest chipset and graphics drivers when i see this issue. your posts never revealed if you did that. bob
so i tried downloading the driver update (from 6/28/2008) from the intel site for my computer, windows vista home premium 32bit edition. the first page of the installer said the drivers the installer updated, and the 945gm express chipset family was included on the list. then setup quits saying &quot;the driver being installed is not validated for this computer. please obtain the appropriate driver from the computer's manufacturer.&quot; hm... but it says my driver is from 12/12/2006, and when i try to update it from the device manager and tell it to search the internet to find the upgrade, it says that i already have the most up to date version.
you have a very outdated driver. 12/12/2006 predates vista's release. i see we've found the most likely cause. in closing, uac can block drivers. i know to shut that down during driver installs. also i didn't see vista mentioned till this last post. since you are making incomplete posts, it's unlikely that anyone can guess what the issue is but given that date i'd say you found it. bob
i have uac completely disabled because it's annoying, and when i try to install the update it gives the error message i copied into my last response. any insight on why that would happen? since i downloaded the 945gm express chipset update, and that's the chipset i have, i don't know why it's giving me that error message. but i agree that's probably it. thanks for the help again
that your bios is current and you have the i945gm video. i have not checked your work here. there's a reason i haven't and it's because the details are being slowed given out. when you post, everytime you post there is a note asking you to give out details. without such i am left to wait for the details or just give general responses. you found the most likely cause of the issue. bob
&quot;video controller intel graphics media accelerator 950 up to 224 mb of shared video memory (when 512 mb or more system memory present)&quot; now let's find the i950 drivers.  is a start and the i945gm is not listed!!!  is interesting as they show no vista drivers!!! are you sure this laptop is supposed to be running vista? let's take this one step at a time. try the 4 drivers listed at  for vista bob
i took a screen shot of the device manager:  i bought this laptop from the gateway site last summer, august 2007, it came with vista. it had a harddrive problem so they sent me another with factory defaults this past winter, 1/2008, so it's even more strange the driver is from 2006. i googled my installation error &quot;the driver being installed is not validated for this computer&quot; and it seems like other people with gateway laptops have this error.
in my previous post i meant it seemed like a lot of people who were trying to download intel driver updates had the same error i'm getting
i see no less than four possible drivers. using the i945gm should have failed. again, you have a warranty issue. it's been defective since day one it seems. bob
oh lol. found the solution on some european world of warcraft forum. apparently there's some glitch with the .exe file intel's update uses that makes vista unhappy. so i had to download the zip file for the 945gm driver, and then tell the driver to update from a disk, but actually find the place where i extracted the zip file to and say that's where it should update from. specifically a .inf file in the extracted updater. tricky. so yeah nothing wrong with driver or hardware or anything. just vista + intel = stupid. the forum was  if anyone wants to read up on it more. so yay happy ending. my video driver is now up-to-date. thanks for your effort and patience rob.
there are some million machines out there. i know the issue, the usual cure and have never had to go to that extreme (yet.) thanks for keeping at it and sharing what you found. i value such feedback since &quot;now i know&quot; and will do better next time around thanks to you! bob
