i have been searching cnet's site for a basic how-to for a non-computer-literate person getting their first computer. one that can take the newbie through the steps starting wth taking the computer out of the box and setting it up, through the first time it is powered on and also covering the basic maintenance steps to take from the start to keep the computer operating at its optimum for the longest possible time, things like the best free antivirus, back-up methods(especially) and other general stuff for optimum performance and health. it needs to explain things in step-by-step form and assume the newbie knows nothing. is there such information on this site that is all in the same place? i am desperate for a how-to here so that i do not have to try and explain it all for several reasons. firstly because the person that needs it will take no notice of what i say and also because i don't actually know it all well enought to explain it in a coherent manner. if it doesn't already exist, how do i find the right person here at cnet to try and set up a page like what i am after? begging for help, tizzanne
the best antivirus question has been posted dozens of times in the spyware forum. keeping the machine &quot;optimal&quot; must be some dozen times in the computer help forum. sorry if i decline from answering such directly but there are such discussions you can glean your own answers from. bob
what your looking for exist. think about all the variables. think about all the subjective areas. think about all the pc fix-it types that would be out of business if joe average learned how to change the oil....very bad the info your looking for exists but it's scattered all over the place. the subjective areas may come down to .....what works for you. here's a link.  there certainly is some reading but the question is. is the user interested?
our spyware forum gets that a lot. see how they answered. bob
i know all the info i want is out there, it just doesn't seem to be collated in the one place and the person i am looking for it for is lazy and a little slow on grasping complicated things. if it is not in the one place, she will not bother doing any of it and it is for her kids safety and future benefit that i want to try and get her into the good habits from the start. as i said, she won't take a lot of notice of me, she reckons if i know it it can't be right, but she sets great store in cyber world and thinks that if it says so online, it must be right regardless of where it actually comes from. she is the type to fall for a nigerian scam. so i hope you can see where my problem lies. i do know i will be the one she comes crying to when things go wrong, but i am only a relative novice myself and don't know how to get out of existing problems, only how to try and avoid them in the first place and that knowlege base is probably incomplete too, lol. that's why i was hoping there was a beginners guide to refer her to so she might at least get some good info to set her up. thanks anyway, tizzanne
on this machine i have avast (free) and zone alarm (free.) on another machine it's free avg and zone alarm (free.) for spyware i scan with free avg antispyware and don't use ie or oe. if you want to research that's fine but you may have a year of work ahead. bob
this was from a previous cnet community newsletter topic. you may find it helpful: advice for a clean start on a brand-new computer  good luck! -lee
trying to help someone that won't take your advice. my next door neighbor was like that. a few months ago the geek squad spent a half day at his house. i don't know what they did and i don't know what it cost but now he listens. amazing how a whack in the wallet will get someones attention.....go figure.
thank you guys for helping with this problem. i know i can nearly always find sensible help on cnet and so i keep coming back. thanks again tizzanne
