what do i do if the silver part of the processor comes off of the green part of the processor?? it is attached only by a grounding wire. what kind of extra hard drives does it take??
what model of g3 mac do you have? imac g3 (tray loading) imac g3 (slot loading) imac g3 (slot loading with firewire) mac g3 b/w powerbook g3 (and all its different models) please read the red type, above your post, and then ask the question again. thanks p
it is an apple blue and white power macintosh g3 desktop, family number m5183.
came with an ata drive (regular ide drive) and will support two of them. each one should not exceed 120gb because the lba used on this series will not support anything higher than 127gb. as for the first part of the question, put it back where it was and leave it alone. if the machine is still running correctly, great. as a matter of curiosity, how did the two pieces become separated? p
i got it on ebay. it was once a school computer. it is still running just fine. it's my first mac. i haven't used them in years so i am slightly rusty. what is the name of the expansion slots on the logic board?? i want to look for usb port expansion cards.
and the addition of usb 2.0, and a few extra firewire ports on the same card, is always a good idea. they are readily available. bear in mind that this machine will not be able to run the latest version of os x and, if it is running os x at all, probably has 10.3.9 or 10.4.x on it. good luck p
it has 9.2 and i might upgrade to a more recent version someday, or perhaps i will get an additional machine, probably a notebook because too many desktops take up more space, and install os x on something whenever needed....because like i said i haven't used a mac for years and even on an older os i am still having lots of fun on it!! just wondering how does the heatsink stay on anyways?? is it electromagnetic?? because if there is supposed to be that slimey cooling gel or whatever that stuff is between a processor and heatsink, that stuff is not present.
the heat sink is, or is supposed to be, attached to the processor with a clip. the clip is shaped so that it exerts downward pressure on the heatsink. it has a slot in both ends which attach to a plastic hook on the processor seat. this is the same as many pc heat sinks are attached. there should be some thermal paste between the heat sink and the processor. you should not operate your computer until the heat sink is correctly attached. you will fry the processor if the heat sink is not attached correctly. p
...that i am not planning to use it immediately anyways... since it only has ethernet connection on it and since i have more than one computer now, i will just get high speed interent before i finish setting it up... right now i am searching for websites for heatsink repair that has clips and thermal paste...do you know of any to recommend??
you already have the heat sink, you just need the clip and some thermal paste. the paste you can get from radio shack and you may be able to get a clip from your local computer repair shop. they are pretty generic. after you get the high speed internet, don't forget the router p
