okey dokey - so i've got a quad 2.4 with 4gb 677mhz installed and 256mb hd radeon. system shows 3.25gb installed. occassionally i get error messages saying the system has run out of available memory and i must close the program i am running. this happens a lot when i am running ms flight sim x and it just happened again when i was editing a large photoshop file(75mb). it wasn't a big concern when happening with the game ... but now it's happening with stuff related to my job...i need to get it figured out. any help would be greatly appreciated. also..am is my system still utilizing the 4gb of installed memory even though it only shows 3.25? is there a tweak to fix this?
hint: type /3gb at google.com as i never duplicate web content.
and have you disabled your pagefile?
vista home premium and no i don't know what the pagefile is?? i'm not very up to date on hardware stuff.
just did some reading on the pagefile....seems people are 50/50 on disabling the pagefile. why do you suggest i disable it?
is it used or not?
if the issue only occurs after you've played fs-x and you have a graphics card with 512mb of ram, this hotfix may apply to you. read this article:  and  . the download for the hotfix is in the microsoft.com page.
and also look into the /3gb switch bob mentioned and the hotfix in my other post.
no i did not do the 3gb switch. can you refer me to a link that will walk me through the steps?
it's very simple...
technet.microsoft.com says: before you begin before you perform the procedure in this topic, be aware of the following: the /3gb switch is supported only on the following operating systems: windows 2000 advanced server windows 2000 datacenter server windows server 2003 standard edition windows server 2003 enterprise edition windows server 2003 datacenter edition
the boot.ini setting is thankfully the same as windows 2000. remember that i don't duplicate easy to find web pages. it's not that i can't but the forum policies mandate that i don't plagiarize plus by doing the research on your own you gain a better understanding of the issues. bob
bob: i had another thread about photoshop being slow and you suggested the /3g switch. i added another gig of ram which gives me 3gig of duel channel and did the /3gig switch and there is a noticeable increase in speed when using photoshop your suggestion saved me $500.00 and a lot of time. i am very grateful for your help. wayne
or &quot;you're welcome.&quot; thanks for the kind words and how you dove in and saved yourself some bucks. bob
your posting has two issues, the message you are getting refers to virtual memory and the answers supplied apply to that. the fact that the system reports 3.25gb of ram when 4gb is fitted is because you are running 32bit windows and it is limited to seeing only 3.25gb of real physical ram. 32 bits will only represent addreses up to 4gb (4,294,967,295) and if all this was attrbuted to ram there would be no addresses left in the max range for graphics card memory or any other peripheral equipment with it's own memory, all of which has to be mapped within that maximum range if you want to use all of your installed ram you need to switch to 64 bit windows. hth
i just had another one of these on a different forum. my pc came with only 1gb of ram. i'm running vista business on a pentium d 820, dual core processor. it would not run properly without a second gb of ram (tow gb total). this seams to also apply to most other pcs as well. if this is correct and the 32bit systems only go to 3.5gb of ram then there short .5gb of ram if your running a quad core processor. it might be necessary to upgrade to the 64bit version to get the full 4gb to run the os. understand? looks like an ms ooops to me. ....................................................... 64bit oss are available here if you meet the requirements for the upgrade you can receive it for the price of shipping and handling. see link:
you must use 64 bit operation system to use memory more than 3.25 gb. such as window vista x64.
in the search box type &quot;msconfig&quot; (without the quotes). choose the boot tab, choose the drive your using from the list, click both the maximum processors and memory boxes, set them according to your needs, then click &quot;apply&quot; followed by ok, restart the system.
after &quot;set them according to your needs&quot;, then click ok , then apply, then ok, restart the system. your done.
