here's the problem: 1 - i boot the computer and get the message &quot;keyboard failure, connect mouse to proper port. press f1 to continue. my mouse is wireless and connects via usb receiver. my keyboard is operartive. 2 - pressing f1 continues the boot process successfully 3 - i want to eliminate this problem keyboard/mouse issue by resetting the bios to default settings, however i cannot get to the bios during a boot, by pressing the f2 key. i get the keyboard /mouse message. system - xp svc. pack 2 ram 756 mb computer - dell dimension 8200. can anyone help me with this connundrum?
a regular mouse to the ps2 port and then get into the bios so that you can tell it to not report errors?
that's the reason i never use usb mouse or keyboard.
tried that first with no success. thanks anyway
thanks but your answer tells me nothing. i've been using usb connections for 2 years and never had the problem. tried a regular mouse and keyboard connection with no success. any more suggestions.
have a jumper that lets you reset to factory default. look in the dell service manual for your model on how to access and use the jumper.
thanks for your help. i will investigate.
its not a usb mouse or keyboard , hes talking about wireless!. and you dont use usb because of??
unplug the jumper on the mobo , or take out the small silver battery. that resets it. 1 question though, was your setup working before? and if so what happend to cause the problem? or is this a new setup for you?. just curious. sounds like you changed something ? and now you want to fix it.
report keyboard errors -&gt; displays keyboard errors when set to report. the default is report.
thanks for your reply. no, this is not a new anything. the anomaly just happened, why i do not know. there is one odd item. a mouse hooked into the standard mouse connection does not work. if this is a clue to anything let me know.
read his message. he clearly says usb not wireless&gt;
thanks for your reply. i'm not sure what you are telling me? is this an avenue to correct my problem?
use a diff keyboard just for kicks and most mobos have atleast 2 usb ports , have you tried using a diff usb port?. a standard mouse connection is ps2... if you do have a bad keyboard you need to check and see. try a diff keyboard. make sure nothing extra is plugged in except the mouse and keyboard. start with the basic's. your computer will start with out a mouse but not the keyboard or atleast not a faulty keyboard. try booting with just the keyboard with nothing else connected. it should go into windows. not having a mouse doesnt stop windows or your computer from working. if your computer starts with just a keyboard. then cool. if it doesnt then you know your keyboard is faulty and may not be mouse problem at all. if your computer starts with the keyboard then turn off and plug in the mouse. have you reset the bios as in my other post?.
all of your suggestions are great but are not relevent since i have tried all of your suggestions with no success. no i haven't reset the bios yet but i will. thanks again.
so you tried booting with just the keyboard and it worked ok?. the only prob you have is getting into the bios?. so take side panel of your case and pull the batt and leave out for about 30seconds then put back in. and before you boot up just use keyboard and mouse.
the bios settings for reporting keyboard failure is set to enable by default. this setting needs to be changed to disable. if i remember correctly you have tried a ps2 kb with the same error. if this is so you may have a damaged port. bill
thanks. will check & do.
and there lies the problem of using usb (especial for keyboard function).
