my 533mhz p3 (windows 98) has been freezing up intermittently ever since i had the processor cooling fans replaced (old ones were making noise). i have taken it back to the shop twice, and they cannot duplicate the problem. it works fine for them, and they say the processor is not overheating. but when i get it back home, it locks up. i've tried plugging it into a different electrical outlet, to no avail. any ideas? thanks.
they could be right. many shops are cooler than where the machine is at home. try this: 1. remove the case cover. 2. point a fan at the innards. any difference? bob
no difference, i'm afraid. beginning to suspect shop incompetence/deception. unless it has to do with electrical service? or my peripherals?
&quot;or my peripherals?&quot; &quot;tip: if you are asking for help to troubleshoot a computer-related problem, please be sure to include all the necessary information (ie: operating system, model number, hardware, software, etc) that will help others identify your problem for a speedy resolution.&quot; this tip is put up with every post. while it may or may not help, i wish you the best in finding the cause and a cure, but let's just state that old machines can go unstable even with the best of care. a prime example is this google -&gt;  also worth noting are the pests that we find on too many machines. i wrote up a short list about this at  not many shops will alert people to this issue because it would run up a bill and inflict too much time educating the users. (no offense intended here!) now that we've got a good idea it's not heat related, we move to &quot;other items.&quot; bob
i have exactly the same problem with 3 pcs. 2 of them are brand new celeron-d machines. they work in my shop but not at my customers site. i have tried putting in a new power circuit and using surge protectors. the cpu and power fans work perfectly. i get lockups while in the bios or when windows starts or has been running for 20-30 min. i think it may be related to the wireless g communications card (dlink). it works on some networks but not on others. do you have a wireless card in the pc?
