hi everyone, i would really appreciate it if someone could help me with this problem. i have a desktop hp vista computer 2007. it has always worked wonderfully. but, all of a sudden, lately, my keyboard just stops working. i'll be on facebook or surfing on google and the keyboard stops working. i can't type or do anything. i thought that it might just be an on online thing so i went into notepad or even in the search area of the start button and still i can't type anything. after shutting down my computer for a few hours, the keyboard starting working again. today, i was told by a few people to just smash the keyboard on the table. low and behold that worked. that's why i can type right now!!!! but, who knows how long this will last. do i need a new keyboard or is this more of an interior computer problem???? i would really appreciate anything suggestions that anyone would have. thanks again for all your help. it's greatly appreciated!!! jpld
the reason i ask is you want to make sure it's not an unresponsive pc and not just the keyboard. if just the keyboard, you replace it...plain and simple. sticky keys on membrane types can do all sorts of weird things. but, if the mouse still works, the pc is probably not hung and a replacement keyboard is the obvious choice.
thank you so much for your quick reply as well as your helpful advice. all is greatly appreciated!!! jpld
as already stated to you, replacing the kybd. would be an easy fix. just find one that's similar or maybe slighlty more to your liking. fyi- well smashing is pretty much close to giving it a true breakdown. i assume &quot;smashing&quot; was an aggressive act. next time, just &quot;burp&quot; the kybd. like a baby. turn it over, and pat the kybd. backside with a few good smacks to loosen any crud, food, staples, hair and/or foreign substances. shake it as well and notice the stuff that falls out onto the desk, worth noting. however, if this doesn't change the situation, replace. tada -----willy
chances are it's probably a faulty keyboard. is it a wired or wireless keyboard? if it's wireless, first try swapping out the batteries and see if it helps. i had a keyboard start doing weird things, stop responding, type letters that i wasn't typing, etc...i had an extra keyboard laying around, so i decided to swap it out. the other keyboard worked fine. however, when i picked up the original keyboard to swap it out, i found a small puddle of water underneath it. ha..then i shook the keyboard and saw a few drops of water come out of the bottom. sure enough, someone must have spilled water on my keyboard (i do have others using it now and then, including my little niece).
if your keyboard stopped working, there are a few things you can check to troubleshoot what the problem might be. depending on the situation, you can try one of the following factor:- first, if your keyboard stopped working, did it happen while you were typing or did you notice it right after starting the computer up and second, what kind of keyboard connection are you using? is it a usb keyboard, is it a wireless keyboard or is it a regular ps/2 keyboard connection...
