once in a while my computer will stop responding and i will have to shut it down via the power button. after doing that it wont turn back on for an hour or two. the power supply feels warm so i am assuming that is what is overheating. i am fairly computer savy but never had problems with overheating before. what should i do to solve the problem?
and then minimize it...the system temps will continue to be displayed in the upper right hand corner of you monitor. let us know what the temps shows. vapcmd
is your hard drive slow to respond? most power supply problems will result in plain just power loss. however if the there is a burning smell like electronics burning it may be power supply. if you have a warranty send it out if the problem is consistent. check in windows management for major errors.
thanks for the tips. temp right now is 35 degrees since it took sitting all last night unused to get the stupid computer to turn on again. i guess i will have to wait for it to happen again so i can verify it is an overheating problem now that i have pc wizard
a quick test i use for overheating is placing a household fan at open side of case cover removed. if it lasts longer and/or remains on, good sign its overheating. you didn't mentioned anything about your system but if it stuffed with pc goodies or has hi-end devices that generate heat, thjat too must be better cooled. thus, a well vent system and/or added fans will do great. better now components are decent as they age tend to become less stable and fail. a psu should feel as its a big heat source, so don't conclude its that alone, but a cheap or over-taxed psu will become a candidate for failure if cooling isn't controlled. i wish, i could offer more concrete advice, but have found a weak or bad psu a constant source of problems when pcs have added devices, bad cooling, location and/or overwhelmed cooling. taken as a whole, a decent installed psu capable of handling all power demands and well ventilated case does wonders. tada -----willy
