at the ces show in vegas (2013), a company (milllenniata) is claiming to have single layer dvd disks (4.7 gb) that use available burners to make an actual engraved mark to the disk storage layer resulting in storage that will last 'thousands of years&quot;. disks can be played on regular dvd players and devices. these are expensive compared to regular disks but if the storage capacity and longevity of them is accurate (and not just media hype), it seems a good solution. here's a link to the cnet article:  . the millenenniata web site (  ) has a list of current burners that work with this media and you can also order media from them directly. i have no connection with this company at all. i am certainly wondering if the marketing is accurate and if anyone has any experience with these given how new they are.
under the right conditions a normal dvd can go many years but your real issue is if you see a player for such in a few years. we already have tablets and laptops without them. it's going the way for the floppy disc. bob ps. it's marketing and many will fall for it.
i wonder who that person is. i want to know his secret (not the making of dvd )... the &quot;highlander&quot;, hehe?
i store large numbers of raw photo files as well as high resolution audio and video files (multi-gb) so the typical cloud solutions are either too slow or too expensive for the size of files i am shuffling around. maybe dvds are on the way out for the common users. i am rather confident they will stay around for some time for those in my situation -- and there are quite a few of us. its either dvds or raid storage and the continual replacement of raid drives makes that a less than ideal solution. the m-disc solution seems to get around the finite nature of hd (regardless of whether it is solid state or rotational) life. given the physics of what milllenniata is doing -- and while i'm not a physics prof, what they are doing is physically possible -- their solution has distinct possibilities. so has any one used m-discs and what has been your experience with them?
i looked and it looks like pure marketing. kodak and others do make extended life media which is simply another top coat to guard against a scratch. let's repeat prior answers about life span.  you can get 100 years from good media under the right storage and handling conditions. that is, you won't be around to test it. bob
since this is still in the ces loop and not readily available and/or in initial stages of possible purchase, it's all too new. if a user has a need for 1,000s yrs. of media storage, heck that's the way to go. me and you as home users, well wouldn't there be something more advantageous in the future. of course, they're expensive, it's all new and such. it's nice they can be played on std. players/drives that is a plus in imo. what value of this new media is still left to the open market. tada -----willy
