i was wondering what accessories you all recommended for the macbook. i already have a small list, but wondered what you all thought. so heres my list 1)samsung 206bw digital/analog wide screen monitor 20in 2)logitech vx revolution cordless mouse for notebooks 3)targus mobile power inventer car charger 4)brenthaven fusion messenger bag 5) apple iwork 6) apple .mac account 7)klipsch promedia 2.1 thx certified computer 3 piece speaker system if anyone else has any suggestions or comments please feel free 2 post. this is all going to go with the black macbook, with is cool seeing the monitor, speakers, bag, and mouse are all black. my price range is about $2500 or less.
... about what you do and how you plan on using the equipment. are you a student and if so, what will you be studying? will you use this computer for work and if so, what kind of work? is this your only computer in the house? are you into music, video editing, or gaming? do you have a tv and/or stereo you will be using your macbook with? do you spend lots of time traveling?
i am currently a student in high school. i plan on studying landscape design, so this mb is only to get me threw high school. when in college i plan on buying the macbook pro. i do like music, would like to edit photos, and do other things. i currently own one pc, while my parents own another. i guess i'm what you call a switcher. i may still be looking into the macbook pro though, as it's something i can afford if wanted. i travel about 4 to 5 times a year on vactions, family visits, etc. but if anyone can help me out on this thanks. also, since i'm talking about the macbook pro is it really worth the extra $500 for screen space, faster processer, backlit keyboard, better graphics card, video memory, etc. i may want to get into some gaming, so this is just something for me to consider. thanks again everyone.
... and plan on studying landscape design/architecture you will probably need to use autodesk autocad civil 3d which is unfortunately a windows based program. plan on having a copy of xp or vista to load up on your hd. this is also a fairly demanding program so the extra video processing power in the upgraded video card of the pro series may come in handy. also maxing out your ram is advisable no matter what you do with your computer. bottom line... check with any college degree program you may plan on attending to find out the software you may need to use. another consideration is getting an external hd that is self powered from its own usb or firewire connection. this is so you can move large school projects from computer to computer. i have just purchased a 120 gig drive of the sort i just mentioned (powered off its own usb connection). i have already found it invaluable for moving large projects from class room to home instead of hauling my laptop to class. takes up less room since it's about the size of a small paperback book and makes a less tempting target for theft. if you do plan on studying landscape design, you might consider a blue tooth wacom tablet rather than an expensive wireless mouse. it will cost more but will offer more versatility in a variety of graphics and layout programs you may end up using (not saying you will but you might). of course you will want an external mouse anyway... the wacom tablet offers a mouse along with the digital pen but that will only work in conjunction with the tablet. consequently, a wireless mouse may be your better alternative. i find a ventilated laptop stand is invaluable. i use a targus chill pad with built in fans for additional cooling of your laptop might come in handy. the targus model i use is powered off of the usb port in the computer. since one never has enough usb connections you might get the model that offers a built in usb hub or get an external usb hub to give you extra connections. for ease of use i connect my chill pad to the bottom of my laptop using sticky backed velcro tape. that way it sticks to the bottom for easy moving around from desk to couch to bed while helping to keep my computer cooler than the fan could. it also makes for a more comfortable lap when your kicked back on the couch. that is a few things that come to mind right now. my biggest advice is not to plan on carrying around your computer if you don't have to. once i got the portable hard drive i found the only time i need my laptop is when i go to a friends house to work. otherwise, i just plug in to the computers at school and am thankful my 7 pound computer isn't adding its' weight to the 10 or so pounds of books i'm already carrying. hope this helped. it's late and i'm going to bed. good night. grim
good morning. thanks for the info. for now, since i'm 4 years away from college, i'll stick with my list for now. i'll keep the tablet idea in mind. i think i might go for the mbp, since from what i've read it sounds the better of the two. i'll be buying of amazon so they give something like a $150 rebate. also do you know if apple will be relasing any new hardware besides the iphone this year, like a new mb or mbp. thanks again
the only thing that really distinguishes the macbook pro from the macbook is the dedicated video ram (128 or 256 mb vs the macbook's 64 mb shared). if you use an external monitor most of the time there isn't much advantage to the 15&quot; or 17&quot; macbook pro; the 13&quot; macbook can have almost as big a hard drive (up to 160 gb vs 200 gb for the pro) and as much ram as the macbook pro, but because of its smaller form factor it is more portable than the pro. the macbook pro is worth it for the video card if you're seriously going to do digital video or photography editing, or play newer, graphics intensive computer games. otherwise i would go for the macbook. some things i would recommend buying for you new laptop: 1) a cooling pad with built-in usb hub. this will let you connect your usb periperals with just 1 cable when you take your laptop away from home. 2) an external hard drive. either a 3.5&quot; or a portable 2.5&quot; drive will work just fine depending on if you plan to leave it at home or take it with you. 3) upgrade your laptop to 2gb of ram, it's definitey worth it. 4) they make port covers to stop dirt and dust from getting into the ports on the side of the computer when you're transporting it somewhere. i think it would be a good investment, especially for the less-often used ports.
hi: just cruising through and noticed your posting: don't forget about the educational discount that apple gives if you're a student. i wasn't sure that amazaon offers this, but it's worth the check. you've probably already done this, but just in case. i just bought a macbook pro, and am waiting for case-mate to release their signature suit for the 17&quot;. it covers the macbook completely and is left on while you use your laptop. they have these for the 13&quot; & 15&quot;macbooks and they have them in great colors. just a thought because it protects your mb from scratches and light thumps. mike
to back up your data? an external hard drive would be a good idea - firewire connection is best. if there are other computers to be backed up, a nas would be good (over wired or wireless ethernet).
you have a good list going... shaggymac macbook screen / keyboard protector:  prime pac laptop cleaning kit:  since the macbook has built-in bluetooth, get a bluetooth enabled mouse such as the logitech v270. this way you can eliminate the usb receiver module.
