hi, i have a hp pavilion elite m9170 pc with vista, and for the past month or so, it shuts down by itself and restarts when you are doing your thing on the computer. it has just passed the one year warranty that i had with hp, and have extended warranty (2 years, which just started) with the store that i brought it. i called hp and they said they will charge me $46 to help me, because as far as they are concerned their warranty is up. so i called the people at the store where we brought it and the computer tech said if i have limewire on my computer i have virus'. i said thats impossible because once a week i scan with ad aware, avast and malwarebytes, i also have comodo firewall and i have no virus' except the occasional cookie, which i delete. he told me to back up everything and shut the computer, and start it up again and press f11 and select restore. this will restore the windows. he also said that if there is a virus on the computer they will charge me. but if there is a virus won't it show up when i'm doing my weekly scans? so i then called the people who i have extended warranty with and they said they wanna take my computer away for testing. does anyone have any idea why my computer shuts off and restarts by itself? no its not a virus as i did my weekly scans are all clean and virus free. thank you, audrey charlize
given the limewire i have to agree with that diagnosis. and since it's out of warranty there is no free support or repair. here's one idea. are you doing your yearly cleaning? watch this -&gt;  today's pests change quickly to avoid detection so we're never sure that we can scan for them. bob
the way most av detection works is finding &quot;known&quot; malware strings. basically, it tries very hard, but if you don't have the latest av update plus an av pgm. that's really a good one, some malware can slip by. while limewire is a known source for malware which is why the tech mentioned it. if it isn't a h/w issue but a virus one, then yes you pay for that service. you contend since you check regularly it not an issue, well often enough, malware does get through. i suggest you re-install(delete current) avast av pgm.. install it and when it asks to reboot, allow it the boot level scan to complete the install. then update it, and re-run the scan again(this is not the same scan). you now have a more intense scanning, before possibility any malware can act. if results show bad, you have to act. if not, then you can think repair shop, etc. thinking its not a malware issue. no telling what maybe found but at least you tried. of course you should clean well the system case of dust bunnies as heat build-up is a frequent source of system reboots. you can try that 1st and then the avast re-install. i like to part that basically what you have been told from hp and vendors is pretty much typical. tada -----willy
hi audrey.. you may have noticed i locked the thread you created at the &quot;audio & video software forum&quot;. i noted, it's in your best interest, as well as those helping you, to only post at one forum. in addition to the above thread, you also posted the same thing at the vista forum and spyware, viruses & security forum . please follow-up on one thread only. again, i thank you for your cooperation.. carol
