i am buying a new computer. i will be running a small web design company on the computer, playing somewhat highly graphical games, and doing a lot of multimedia work. i need to know which is the better buy, and what will last me longer. thanks. intel  amd  oh, and i have heard that if i buy a very good graphics card for the intel, i would have great gaming and multimedia, is that true? or would i need the amd?
well i have always been an amd man they serve me well with gaming rite now i have an amd sempron 2500+ which is 1.4ghz and 768mb of ram my games are good i havent used pentuim d yet i only used pentuim4 but the amd seems to be a little better but if its being used for mohaa and bf2 and hl2 i'd go with amd i hope this helps
amd x2 dual destroys the pentium d, and i'm not alone in this opinion. i've got a the x2 and it is sweet. i'd been a little concerned that these pre-config's might not meet your needs. i'd like to learn what the power supply is rated at, you'll want at least 350w, 420w or higher would be good, 500+w is best. the graphics card may need an upgrade if you do heavy graphics for web (like manipulation in photoshop) and for your gaming needs. that could be a few hundred bones alone. i'd definitely want 10/100/1000 base-t ethernet if you do web development for a living. uploading sites would blaze with cat7 speed, right? that's a mobo and ethernet card issue i'd consider, for now and for future needs. i'd also wonder if you have enough drive bays (internal and external) for all your needs. consider monarch computing for a more customized build. you might pay a few hundred extra up front, but it is for value in all the right places. or you may be upgrading later with heavy limitations like your mobo and expansion slots. you can search my posts/profile to read about my pc rig i built for $2300 including everything: operating system, full rig, monitor, keyboard, etc. good luck, cheers.
i think for the money this is the best deal on the market. gateway 3800+ desktop with 19'' monitor, printer, cable & surge protector
dell, hp, gateway, etc. all install bloatware on their computers, which clogs the hard drive, uses system ram, and slows the machine down overall. they also put crappy power supplies which will need to be replaced if you want a good graphics card. the cases are badly designed, and there is a risk of the computer overheating. if you build your own, you can choose exactly what components you want, right down to which cpu cooler you prefer. you'll know that the components are quality; after all, you picked them. if you think you're capable of building, post again with your budget, and i'll find a setup for you.
