i have both wireless and voip connections that are stated to be excellent with 57 ms ping, 17.5 mbps download, and 3 mbps upload, yet i'm still getting horrendous voice reception. two remaining possible fixes before i try a powered hub are trying different wifi channels and then upgrading to a 300 mbps wireless-n adapter, possibly dual-band. regarding channel selection, i know there's a tradeoff in that those with the least interference tend to be the most congested. what i'm wondering is if there's a way to measure these two things for all channels available to me in order to quickly home in on and test the best one rather than trying all channels across the entire spectrum, before upgrading my adapter. all comments are appreciated. thanks!
my netgear has an auto selection which it finds this for me. as these channels change with time my best selection will be tomorrows worst. use auto to save yourself from testing this daily. and get wired where you can. bob
i would test a wired connection if you can to make sure the issue is with your wireless before you change a lot. it most likely the wireless but some isp have crap voice. there are tools that will look for wireless but the good ones do not run under windows. there are also small hand held devices but they are not cheap. simple test is to turn off your wireless and have your pc search for access points. most client software can do this it will show you all the access points it sees, how strong they are and what channels they are on. if not there are a few windows based wireless sniffers that will do this but they tend to be picky about the nic card. some routers also have the capability. still you have the issue of b,g and n all running on the same frequency. you need to actually scan each. you can have a n smashing a g and never see it. just random picking of channels sometimes is the easiest. a n wireless can tolerate interference a little better but people still have lots of issues in a high population area. if you go to n you must replace everything you have with n. most so called dual band cannot run both bands at the same time. they run either g or n. even worse is if they see b they will run b since you cannot run b and g at the same time. there are some high end access points that can really run both but those are basically 2 radio units in one box.
