i have ordered the upgrade version of windows 7, due in october. i have also ordered a new sata 750 gb hard drive from seagate. i presently use vista home premium. my question is: can i load an upgrade version of windows on a new hard drive? can i load my office xp and expression web2 upgrade versions on the empty hard drive? i know that microsoft upgrade programs require conformation of ownership of a previous version. my thought is that i could keep my old hard drive installed under another letter, and when asked for proof of previous version, i could direct the microsoft program to the old hard drive. is that what i would do? do i have to fool with the bios with this sata drive? what else would you suggest for a &quot;clean&quot; install? thanks... ken
but there is something terribly amiss here. where is the vista dvd that you are basing this upgrade from? that is, let's say the hard disks fail and wipe out. are you ready? bob
i have the disk, but it is an upgrade version. i remember that when i installed it on the disk containing my window xp, it searched for the previous version (proof of ownership). if i start with a new hard drive, the program won't be there for verification. i just ran into a case where my old microsoft frontpage had a problem. i uninstalled it, and tried to install from scratch. i couldn't do it because it was an update version, and i did not have the disc for the windows 98 frontpage.
that's what i was afraid of. you don't have the originals so later you find that place between the rock and some other place.
i am thinking that if i have a new drive c, and leave the old drive in the d position, can i point to the d drive for verification that i own a previous software edition?
how did your test work out?
i am getting ready for the big day when my windows 7 arrives. my new hard drive will be here tomorrow, but i will not install it until i get windows 7 and try for a new install.
if you buy a upgrade version you must have the previous version of windows before it or other wise it will not work because its an upgrade but if you have the non upgrade one your fine. if you want to put your upgrade copy on a new drive you have to install xp and you can go strait to window's 7 but if you dont have any previous full complete os then your best bet would be to mirror copy your old hard drive to your new one.
maybe i worry too much! i have the disc for windows vista, and the disk for expression web. i believe that is all i need to register those programs on a new drive. the reason for me not wanting to mirror my old drive to the new one is because of all the junk that accumulates after time. i did a mirror copy when i upgraded from windows xp to vista, also with a new drive. when i loaded vista, i didn't select &quot;clean install&quot;, so a bunch of crap was left on the new drive. now i want to get a good start with windows 7. i still have one more month to worry about getting it to work. thanks... ken
