hi, i have visited many forums and see this issue but no answers/fixxes. the problem is when the monitor tried to display older games or visuals that dont meet the native resolution. the monitor decides to go into a safe mode with a box pop up saying &quot;not optimized mode&quot;. there has to be a way around this. from what i have read people are bashing samsung for this on utube and other forums. i have a samsung tv and 2 pc monitors and love them all. please help me fix this problem and make the fix public so the bashing may be stopped. the game i am trying to play is warcraft 3 frozen throne, but im positive it has nothing to do with the game as there are many posts of other games doing the same thing. it seems to be any older game that dosent utalize the higher resolutions that the monitor is trying to force. samsung syncmaster 2233, radeon hd 4870 1gb, 4 gig ram, drivers all up to date.
try the override setting in dxdiag. put it at 60. given the lack of details and you may want to bash i'll share a fix i used. good luck, bob
i have windows vista, dont see an override option available in the dxdiag tool. it is set at 60 hertz though. i even tried forcing the 60 hertz function in ati catalist control center, no luck. when i open the game, it still tries to run at 75 hertz and says not optimum setting and goes into standby mode.
almost all lcds require 60hz. some call that a flaw. ask ati how to keep the card at 60hz.
above i stated the game was trying to run @ 75 hertz, this was wrong. think im reading to many forums and getting burned out. it says(&quot;not optimum mode, recommended mode: 1920 x 1080 @ 60 hertz). the games highest setting is 1280 x 1024. this is where the problem is i think. the monitor wants the game run @ 1920 x 1080, which it cannot do. i have posted to samsung support but have received no reply as of yet.
but give errors when the refresh rate is wrong. the good thing we did here was to move connections to hdmi. do you use hdmi? bob
i went through all the diff rez settings and the game was happy with 1280x960x32 @ 60 hertz. so i guess the fix is to play with the rez settings till you find something the monitor is happy with. ok works for me, i will try to spread the word. tyvm for the help.
&quot;1680 x 1050 resolutions,&quot; i wonder if ati's 1280x1024 is not exactly kosher. to recap. must be 60hz for all settings and watch out on the second number. -&gt; all this vanished as an issue over hdmi or even dvi to hdmi connections. ever since i changed that my kid has yet to ask me to set the resolutions. bob
i was having this problem, setting the resolution to 1920x1080 60 hertz, and i just found the solution. you have to (on the monitor itself) hit the menu button, and scroll down to the second from the bottom. hit source to select it, the hit the down button until the options become av mode and hdmi black level. go to av mode and hit source to select it. now press up or down to change the setting to off. exit the menu. as long as av mode is off, the monitor will display perfectly. if the color looks strange, change hdmi black level to normal instead of the default low as well.
