i have a brand new lexar professional 32gb sdhc card that i used in my camcorder on vacation. when i try to get the videos off it my computer isn't recognizing the card. so i put it in the sdhc port in my printer and it said the card has an error. when i view movies on the card via the camcorder, the list of movies on the cards show 2 boxes with exclamation points. the rest of the videos play fine. what are these boxes with exclamation points? i sort of figure this is where the error on the card is. is there any way to fix this so i can get the uncorrupted movies off the card? so disappointed that this card did this so soon after buying it. thanks in advance for the help! melissa
if so, i'd ask if the camcorder has a feature allowing you to plug it into a pc via usb and pull the files off that way.
when i plug the camcorder in via usb with the corrupt sdhc card in it, i can't do anything. programs lock up, etc. can't even safely disconnect the camcorder. i've also tried to put the card into the sdhc port in my printer. it says the card has an error, and there's nothing else i can do after that. when i take the card out of the camcorder and hook the camcorder up via usb it works no problem. videos on camcorder's hard drive are easily seen. i literally can't do anything to get the movies off this card. lexar has advised using image rescue 4. haven't tried it yet. i'm worried about the program doing something with the existing good videos on the card. looks like there's 2 corrupt files. i'm quite disappointed in lexar. this was a brand new card in a brand new camcorder, and it literally had a problem on the very first day i used it. all they've advised is to use their program. i'm honestly worried about even using this card again even if i can fix it. melissa
you should be able to, at least, get a replacement. i know they are a respectable name and i believe are distributed by crucial who is very respectable. i know it won't help to know that. i would try their suggested rescue method though it may not work. there are such as professional services (very expensive) but these don't guarantee success either. there are plenty of reasons such failures can occur and what is known is that failure is inevitable at some point. not to be flip here but about all you may be able to take away from such experiences is the importance of backing up that which is important and doing so as soon as practical. try the rescue method. you've nothing to lose and i don't see it causing further damage.
lexar has advised that if i am unable to recover the disk they will try to do it for me, and even issue a replacement. i wasn't able to back up anything because the card failed on the very first day of use... literally can't do anything with it as my computer won't recognize it... and this is after less than one day of use. so will be sending it to lexar. lexar did say i should have formatted the card in the camcorder before use. but i've never had to do that before... card comes formatted so i just thought it was ok to use that way. not sure i understand why a card must be formatted in the camera before use.
&quot;lexar did say i should have formatted the card in the camcorder before use. but i've never had to do that before... card comes formatted so i just thought it was ok to use that way. not sure i understand why a card must be formatted in the camera before use.&quot; that advice is well known and accepted as correct. while using the card without doing so works fine in what must be 99.9% of the time, it's that last 0.1% that can cause folk grief. to explain why takes me about 5 minutes to cover entirely one on one over coffee so i'm keep it short to &quot;it's good advice.&quot; bob
was included in device instructions. so many flash and external drives come formatted and with software on them but i'll tend to pull off anything i want to save and format the device myself. years ago, 3.5&quot; floppy disks came un-formatted or, for a higher price, pre-formatted. i can't tell you how many of those pre-formatted disks i found to give read/write or track 0 errors immediately. i tended to always format these in the drive on the machine i would want to use them with. it should not have mattered in an ideal world but seemed like a good idea. what you might do when and if you get a replacement is to format it one of the devices that must write to or read from it and then test it with something that's expendable or already backed up. good luck.
thanks so much for all your help. one final question... if i format the new card inside my camcorder, can it also be used in my camera? both are panasonic. will have to look through my manual to figure out how to do this. that'll be a feat in itself since the manual isn't user friendly. :-/
and make sure it works in your reader as well. there are a number of memory cards out there designed for various purposes and with costs to match these. though some manuals might not be user friendly, they should still be the best resource for determining what type of memory media you should use.
for years we've seen troubles when sharing a card among various cameras and camcorders. test it but be ready for more file system failures. if i had to do this i would pull the card, copy out what i wanted then format it as i prepare for use in the next device. bob
this is good to know. i might just dedicate one card to the camcorder and one to the camera to avoid more problems. thanks again! melissa
