which brand of hard drive do you trust most? fujitsu (why?) hitachi (why?) ibm (why?) maxtor (why?) samsung (why?) seagate (why?) western digital (why?) other (which brand?) i have no idea
which microsoft windows version would you consider the worst? (please click on button to vote) fujitsu (why?) hitachi (why?) ibm (why?) maxtor (why?) samsung (why?) seagate (why?) western digital (why?) other (which brand?) i have no idea makes no sesne at all
of seagate, maxtor and wd, only seagate drives have never given me any trouble. my maxtors (4 in all) had a habit of playing up when they got too warm - probably because the circuit board just sat on a set of contacts and flexed with the heat. my wd's have had about a 30% failure rate. seagates? no failures. most of these drives are in use 24 hours a day, and i've even had seagate 500gb and 750gb drives in those fan-free external usb cases with no problem at all.
it's ghastly
not the person who put together this question?
seagate is the best because of 3 little words: five year warranty. they also have the highest ratings (that i know of) for impact threshold. so you may be able to throw them on the ground and have them still work; although, i wouldn't recommend it: it voids the warranty! not to mention the fact that every single western digital drive i've got now has a screwed up track 0, which means i can no longer use them as a master drive to put windows on. on another note i hope the it guy(s) responsible for mislabeling the topic have now been fired! now, whenever i read your emails i'm going to have to make sure you've labeled the topics right, basically make sure you know what you're doing. so shouldn't i be paid for doing your job?
big time mistake
right now i am using seagate, previously i used maxtor and in one pc that is seven years old, my maxtor hard drive is still working perfectly. maxtor hard drives became unreliable when they got a contract with dell to supply drives for dell pcs. the quality of the drives got very bad because maxtor just couldn't keep up with demand. maybe now that seagate bought out maxtor, maybe the quality will return to what it had been before the dell deal.
seems like someone changed the poll question but not the answer selections or vice versa. the question that headed the poll that i received read: which microsoft windows version would you consider the worst? (please click on button to vote) fujitsu (why?) hitachi (why?) ibm (why?) maxtor (why?) samsung (why?) seagate (why?) western digital (why?) other (which brand?) i have no idea
more importantly: what kind of salary should i expect?!
the email asks what version of windows do i consider the worst. that would obviously be vista, but for some reason all of the answer choices are hard disk manufacturers?!? oh, i see, the question was supposed to be which brand of hard disk do i prefer. well, i have never had a problem in the sense of drive failure/lost data. however, if i had to choose a brand, it would be western digital, because they have the best compatibility, meaning they work with pretty much any computer or motherboard. i have a western digital hard disk in this computer, and i am very happy with it.
i like seagate drives. that's because seagate makes them well, and because they have posted a utility that makes it possible to work on them fairly easily if they get off-track. i'm speaking of &quot;sea-tools.&quot; you can usually get the problem sorted out with that utility. it also works on maxtor drives. i like the western digital drives too, but wd's utility is nowhere near as potent and useful as sea-tools. if we are speaking of bad versions of windows, how about vista? it is currently making people crazy. best version of windows? i like windows 2000 professional for its stability, easy networking capability, and its good looks. if only it could support the huge hard drives, like windows xp sp1 and sp2 and vista.
i used to be a wd loyalist. however after the 2nd wd hd meltdown in 2 years, i switched allegiance to seagate. their 5 year warranty is definitely a major reason, price and performance is another. as for wd, i am also not happy with the warranty turnaround. took over 3 weeks to get my hd replaced, but to give them credit, they upgraded me from a sata to sataii (same capacity) to speed up the process a bit. however, meanwhile i had picked up a seagate baracuda from a local merchant. now i have 2 seagates for my dual boot machine and i am using the wd as temp storage for misc downloads. we'll see if my confidence in wd will be regained.
i've been waiting for someone to realize that the manufacturer of your hard drive is far more important than what version of windows you're running. at least regarding performance. it's been my personal experience that the fujitsu's do not perform as well as maxtor and ibm. i've had no problem with fujitsu when i'm accessing media or data files. it's just those pesky os files it acts like a dog with. i think it may have something to do with the way fujitsu stores dll's. i'm not sure, but i'm going to stick with my maxtor until fujitsu learns to store os files just like data files.
how large are you talking about? i have 250 gig on mines right now with no trouble.
i trust western digital and seagate the most and fujitsu the least (mainly because i have never heard of it!)
u've got to be kidding me!!!!!! they are so far behind they cannot see their behind, they are blind, and evidently mirrors are all they are interested in....
i have lost two (count 'em, 2!) western digital hard drives, complete with all my data, when they were less than a year old. i got 'em at different times and they were different sizes, yet they both died without any indication whatsoever; right in the middle of garden-variety computing tasks (no intense database work, video editing, or cd-burning chores were being performed at the time) they just crashed without warning - the first i knew of it was the bsod, which was also the last thing i knew, as well. in both cases no data could be recovered from the discs, not even professionally. now that's what i call crummy, snake-bitten, turd-rate hard drives! give me seagate any old day, after that nightmarish experiece.
i am maxtor fan had multiple drives managed two to kill one dropped second disconnected improperly but that was it. i had samsungs work related had three failures of four different drives. also since there are maxtor no more i got portable segate 300gb it works fine
the worst windows ever was windows millenium edition. 95 had it's initial issues, as did 98, and xp was almost as bad as me was, til sp2 came out. vista of course has it's own issues. for some reason, i dont remember the issues with windows as bad with 3.11 and earlier. does anyone else? now for the hard drive question: about 10 years ago, i purchased a maxtor h/d. in those days, you paid $300+ for a &quot;large h/d&quot; approximately 20-30 gigs. it was horrible to install. and, once installed, within days, the plates started slapping. so, i exchange it. same thing. last time i trusted maxtor. i then exchange it for a western digital. easy install. actually, the drivers installed so quick, i wondered if it actually installed correctly. problem with wd, however, is every wd i ever owned, went out within 2 years. im using seagate right now, so, we'll see. 5 year warranty sounds cool to me. if it doesnt last, then i'll move on. i have no loyalty to hard drive companies.
i have no use for maxtor. i used to make a liveing building pc's and repairing them. maxtor was nearly always the drive that failed. in my experience they have about on average a 14 to 18 month life span. and when they go - they go hard, fast and complete. seagate has been my choice of drive since the mid 80's and for a while there was quantum. i have some seagates that are 120 megs in my oldest pc, yeah i still run it occasionally, that are still spinning just fine. when seagate bought maxtor - it sent a chill up my spine, i dont know what they are doing with it. time will tell. ted
if you want a hard drive with ibm technology in it - i.e the deskstar and ultrastar ranges, these are now made by hitachi gst (  ). ibm did a lot of r&d in hard drive technology and were responsible for many breakthroughs, but they were always competitive on price. i don't know if or how things might have changed since hitachi took over though.
maxtor because i have been use hitashi and western digital and i found it thae best one
mainly because i've never had one break on me in my 6 years of building. also when i was in shop in my high school there was a shelf with a bunch of old random hard drives pulled from various systems that still worked. take a guess what brand showed up the most? i mean i saw western digital caviars from 1992 that still worked lol.
the question makes no sense. are we talking about hd's or windows o\s??
now the correct question appears &quot;which brand of hd do you trust most&quot; that makes sense!! i like wd have a dell desktop 3yrs old use two external wd drives no problems with either and they are on at least 12 hrs. a day. i did have an omega external drive that crapped out after 1 1/2 yrs. i'd go with wd
i've built a lots of computers and used many types of hard drive's but i must say ibm drive have served me very well unlike the others. and now that hitachi has purchased them their even better with newer technology built into them. they are very smooth running very little noise, if i were to rate hard drive manufactures it would be in this order hitachi,western digital,seagate,maxtor. but this is my opinion only i have been a tech for 30 years i worked for a major company all this time, when we got into computers in 1982 my company sent me to school for this type of training it needed to stay competitive so i think i know a little about quality.
i got the wrong message. so my response was, i don't have a clue. so the resulta are oing to be flawed
i've had a whole slew of seagate drives fail me, either doa or within two weeks of use. granted, they were the bottom of the barrel 20gb and 40gb models, but still, if you want to be the best company, you need to have quality across the whole lineup, as evidenced by toyota. the cheap stuff should last just as long as the flagship hardware. currently i use wd caviar hard drives, and i have no problems with them. i had a maxtor, and in a short lifespan, it blew itself out. i also have a 160 gb maxtor that is running in a usb, and it's not performing too healthily. i had a samsung, and while noisy as a vaccum cleaner!!! it lasted a very long time. hitachi and fujitsu drives are both good brands as well. same goes with toshiba. on a laptop, hard drives don't last as long, especially if the lappy runs hot. all of the above ran for about a year in my evil presario 2100, which eats hard drives on a yearly basis.
the answer obviously is varied. however, i started computer operating in early 60's, programming in mid 60's, in 70's started repairing them, in 80's started building them, so, have a little experience in that line. my personal uses are, early days was seagate and they went down hill and went to micropolis (they were good drives), tried fujitsu and didn't like them, went to western digital and had too many failures. went to maxtor and have stuck with maxtor since the latter 80's. however, maxtor runs in cycles of lasting a good while and then failures frequently. i have recently gone to seagate again. however, bought two 120 gigers at the same time, one started scrambling things in about 6 months. the other currently is ok after two years. thought i'd try hitachi and that is the first i ever had dead out of the box so wont try them again. will most likely stick to seagate even if they are slower ie., ata-100 instead of 133, however i think that is changing in the sata side as the one i just bought has 3g capability. long story short, they seem to run in cycles for brand failure rate. and, for those that have the old drives, i find they get so slow you can't tolerate them and buy another, however, we can say the work, but not acceptable. they haven't failed as yet, we just throw them away.
i noticed the screw up, but figured i'd answer it anyway. i assume the question has to do with hard drives and my answer would be that maxtor has to be the worst. i have had a couple of them. one failed six months later; the other failed in less than a month. i've always preferred either seagate (they've been around a long time and good experience) and western digital (good experience with them). i have little experience with the others.
on the motherboard you're using - some prefer one type of drive some prefer others and yet again you'll get some that are best with any drive, so the question is really irrelavent. the only way really is to look at the manufacturers website, the only trouble is that they don't always give that information. that leaves back at sqaure one. failing any manufactuers information, try pot luck. i can say though that maxtor drives seem to work well with more or less any motherboard designed for an amd cpu - so possibly it's the cpu that decides what's best!
i really would suggest you study how a computer works. no offense intended by any means.
i have a 30gb maxtor bought at least 6 years ago that's still going strong. it's been in 2 different pc's and has been continuously running my os flawlessly. it's been a great drive. i also trust the western digital drives, having owned 2 of them with no problems. i can't say that i don't trust seagate drives, but i have had a problem with one and would think twice before buying another.
they're consistently fast and i've so far not had a single failure. i also have a pair of seagates inside my machine as well and they've been dependable as well. now if the question was about the worst ever, does anybody remember conner?
i never had a broken hard drive in any of the computers i had. i used to have a 60gb fujitsu in my laptop which i upgraded to a 100gb hitachi. also i have a 160gb wd in my desktop, and i have a 500gb mybook external hard disk from wd too. i had a seagate hd once and it was good too.
had a 9 y.o compaq presario with a 4gb seagate drive in it, which was my first ever computer so i lived on that thing for years when i first got it. installing games, uninstalling them to make room for new games that were meant to run on a system with more ram (so the hdd went crazy reading/writing to the swap file), stuffing the o/s up and re-installing that... that was one hard working hdd, i finally gave that pc to my mum 2 years ago for word processing and web surfing and it still refuses to die, i did an error check on it recently and there is not one bad sector on that hdd. when i build my next pc it will have seagate in it for sure.
i refurbish old computers. by far the worst drive is an ibm. i have renamed their deskstar drives as deathstars. best...i'd have to say seagate, then maxtor, then wd.
man, people don't cut much slack for an honest mistake, do they? i use mostly seagate. i think between my two computers, i've got three seagates and two western digitals ranging in size from 40 gb to 250 gb. i've had trouble only with one of the wd's, but that only after 5+ years. so i guess i'm a fan of seagate and western digital. pax, n.
in the cnet community newsletter. sorry about that guys! the weekend was calling way too early! i've corrected in the newsletter archive page, so you can vote:  -lee
do we forgive him? why not, he seems like a pretty good guy. what do ya say. i say, sure we forgive ya! some body pat lee on the back.
it was an honest mistake. i've corrected it in the newsletter archive, so you can vote on the correct poll:
lee, we all make mistakes sometimes. it's a matter of us accepting our mistakes. let's call yours &quot;fat fingur&quot; heheh
i currently like the seagate most, but like the fujitsu. fujitsu though does not have the ide/sata drives any more. they specialize in scsi type drives. western digital, has been pretty reliable for me, and favored.
the wd raptors have all been good but wouldn't buy a caviar right now. i had mixed luck with the old ibm deskstars or &quot;deathstars&quot; as i have heard them called. they were terrific drives as long as they worked.... they just didn't work long enough. i've a couple from hitachi (which took over the business from ibm). these have been decent. it's been at least 4 years since my last hd failure. i suppose just saying that will be the voice of doom.
i remember conner, they are now part of seagate and yes they were some of the worst. i have tried many different drives and samsung has always been a great drive, fast, reliable and quiet. though i understand they didn't start out so great they have come a long way. i think each company has a model or two that perform great the others are only built on a monday morning or friday evening.
the only hdds i've had real trouble with over the past ten years have been labeled ibm. the other brands listed in the question have never given me problems. i replace my hdds after two or three years, though, and i do daily backups. i don't trust any hardware.
i have been using a samsung 60gb hard drive since early 2005 and it has never acted up. i have written terabytes of data in and out, but its still going strong!!! thanks, abhishek 'dexter&quot;', mumbai, india.
based on personal experience i would trust the now long gone quantum and the still current seagate. i have some seriously old drives from these makers and they haven't missed a beat in operation. for laptop drives i would also include toshiba. great price, reliable and great performance.
from what i've heard, wd is the one to go.
i've been in desktop support for over 10 years now. while other hard drives (escpecially quantum/maxtor) have died with real consistency, i've only ever replaced one seagate drive. they just plain work day after day, year after year.
you mention that ibm's were the only ones you had trouble with. let me say that as i have grown with the industry, i have found that seagate drives were troubled through out the years. it seems that has been pretty well resolved. western digital and maxtor had their times with series of bad products. i think though over the years i found fujitsu to be one of the most reliable brands. brands that no longer exist like, miniscribe, conner, quantum, and micropolis, were troublesome brands. conner was frequently dedicated to designs specifically for compaq machines, so when you tried to use them in other machines, problems occurred. a reference i found as follows, may help establish the list you seek:  for the full article. randy here is the current list of top brands, and worst drive models. this is based on the models we see the most, and conversely the drives we see the least. we are in no way paid to recommend any particular brand or another. this is merely a statistical analysis based on the numbers of drives we see come through our doors for drive failure and data recovery. in no way does this guarantee that the top listed drive won't fail tomorrow or that what we feel is the worst one won't last you many years. this is really just a very simple guide for you to use in making a good decision about what drive to buy or to stay away from! if you continue reading, you will find my own diatribe about the latest in the industry and a few things you may or may not be aware of. top brands: 1 being best 1. seagate (models since 1998 only) cheaply made, but getting much better. i never thought i would be putting seagate back on the top of the list but.... seagate now has the fewest failures of all the drives made now. they do make cheap consumer models, but they also have a much better line of drives that cost a little more. your drive, is not the item you want to try to save a buck on! 2. ibm - notebook and desktop drives. there are issues with electro-mechanical failures and or head crash on their high speed ide drives 40gb or greater. the 40, 45, 60 and 75 gb drives are really starting to go bad now, especially the drives manufactured in late 2000 and all of 2001. these can go without warning, so please keep them backed up! we have been seeing a lot of the 75gb drives come in now as well as the 45's and 60's. there is a class action lawsuit ongoing about the 75gb drives. a new development.. hitachi has recently purchased 70% of the ibm hard drive division. i can't wait to see how many of these we get in the future! ( hitachi is known for failures). yet another thorn in the side of the consumer! i should mention that their scsi line of drives is a good product still. 3. fujitsu (desktop drives only) their 10, 15, 20 and 30gb desktop models have been failing left and right with either servo loss or electronic failure. notebook drives are only so-so but are no longer manufactured. they have had so many returned drives, that they have stopped making drives all together. 4. maxtor (we are seeing more and more of these as failed) see below. you get what you pay for. do not use these in server or business applications! if you do, keep them backed up like there is no tomorrow! these are consumer drives only! 5. toshiba (notebook drives only). good engineering! generally good all the way around, but can develop bad heads in some models. as always, just keep it backed up. 6. quantum. has had a bad batch of drives with a defective chip incl. the fireball cx,la,lb,lc and kx series. maxtor now owns quantum (got them at a good price too!). we have been seeing a large number of the quantum asxxxx series drives come in with missing outer servo, especially the 40gb drives, similar to the problem fujitsu has. this is an unrecoverable situation! beware. 8. samsung also known as trigem in e-machines (inexpensive, you get what you pay for!) cheaply made, consumer use only but do a religious backup! 7. western digital (they still haven't learned, their drives are still failing left and right). cheaply made. especially the 'eb' series. the 20gb ab and eb series are horrible. again, i urge you not to use these in business applications. these have servo problems too which are starting to surface. worst models ever: 1 being worst 1. western digital ac1xxx, ac2xxx and ac3xxx series except ac31000 (prone to severe head crash). 2. quantum bigfoot series (any model) prone to many severe failures. cheap drives that never should have been made. these were used heavily by compaq, to keep their costs down! 3. quantum fireball cx,cr,la,lb,lc,kx all have defective spin chips and will fail without warning! quantum was bought by maxtor 07-01. 4. conner cfs850a and cfs1275a (some of the most rma'd drives of all time). 5. hitachi notebook drives of any kind (almost always head crash or lose servo or suffer from misalignment) don't use them! if you have to, backup! used exclusively (because they got a good deal) by dell! if you order a dell, request a different drive or go elsewhere. 6. fujitsu notebook drives of any kind are prone to head crash, desktop drives are bad now too, sorry. again, they have stopped making drives and now barely support what is left out there. 7. samsung drives of any kind (either head crash, or stiction (heads stick to the platters)) cheaply manufactured. 8. toshiba mk2103mav and mk2101man 2.5&quot; drives (prone to severe head crash, heavily rma'd) 9. nec drives of any kind (poor engineering causes many failures, no longer making desktop drives) 10. jts any model (prone to head crash, cheap drives, now out of business) 11. maxtor 7850, 71336, 71260, 72004 (all had defective head stops, heads fly off platters and break off) 12. maxtor 10gb, 20gb, 30gb any model are crashing at an alarming rate! severe electrical problems as well. these are consumer drives at best. back them up now! do not use for business applications. 13. seagate elite 9gb scsi (poor engineering promotes severe head crash). 14. seagate 32140a (prone to severe head crash, heavily rma'd drive). 15. seagate 5xxx series (prone to head crash and or broken head wires). 16. micropolis (almost always head crash, what else is new? they have been out of business now for 5 years). mark cooper president drive service company the data recovery specialists! e-mail: mark@driveservice.com
i have wd hard drives in all my computers and i have the 120gb wd passport portable hdd as well. have had no problems whatsoever with them. very fast file transfers and low noise. i think thats what all people want in a hard drive.
i was wondering why windows had started putting out different versions for different hard drives...(and when!) i have no idea which version of windows is worst, having only used three versions. as far as the hard drives go, i have an internal western digital that has been okay and an external seagate that has also been okay. however, from the reviews i read, i would be inclined to go with seagate if given an option (it seems to stand up to general wear and tear slightly better than other brands).
don't get it
ibm may be the most reliable however thy are not the fastest. having worked for a manufacturer of aluminum disks for hard drives, i know that fujitsu was the toughest specs to meet but their drives were the least reliable, due to the large failures of their notebook-size drives. quantum fireball drives have been the most reliable and predictable drives i have used in my diy machines at home. 5 years is their life span, and usually, a new machine is being built within that time frame, and new hard drives are installed.
here is the email i sent to western digital during my still on going nightmare with recovering data from my wd mybook essential 160 gb i purchased your product at a reasonable price simply based on the confidence of your slogan &quot;put your life on it&quot;. according to that hefty tagline i have been dead most of this year. i am aware that you do not provide support for data recovery and the specialists at cbl have been addressing what should be your problem. it is incredibly disappointing as a consumer to have this experience, especially when it concerns items of irreplaceable value such as my personal data. i am eager to hear the response to your $400 mistake. i basically did nothing to my drive, and suddenly drive became ill with hard drive suddenly fails and now the format is shown as raw in disk management and properties. diagnostic tests show that the drive is physically fine but the data is &quot;locked&quot; on the drive. damage to the volume mapping information. damage to the partition information and structure. possible file structure damage. i'm glad i ran into this forum because wd still has a top spot but i refuse to buy another western digital drive!
data is very important and i sure understand your situation greatly. in the past i have felt good about wd drives, but in recent years they have lost their touch. in the beginning when i was working with 10mb drives i liked seagate and then they had their share of problems and some were good and others were, well not so good. maxtor in the early days were super drives, but when they bought out miniscribe and took on a new series of designs and were poor for a long time. each brand has had their ups and downs. right now i feel that seagate is the one to choose and a strong choice for reliability. i have some maxtors, westerndigitals, and seagates. right now i am cautious with them all. i do data recovery when it comes about and it is time consuming to do and try to keep the costs down for the individual who wants to keep their files that they have worked so hard to save and develop over a period of time. personally i charge a fee usually from $200-300 in most situations to recover your data. even with the programs available today, there is no way to guarantee the data can or will be recovered. i certainly wish i could have helped you, as i know the feeling when it comes to your data, having lost data of my own, just so happens on a wd. seagate right now may be the choice in hds today for reliability. tomorrow, who knows what might be the right choice. whatever you do save your data on multiple platforms or media. randy
thanks for the response, i'm definitely looking into a seagate right now and i've definitely learned my lesson on backing up and keeping data secure because after a year seeing my hard drive, digital camera, cell phone and other technology fail, i'm very cautious. what other media should i keep data on besides maybe a rotation of external hard drives. my recovered data is coming back on about 17 dvd -roms ugh
cd and dvd media is a good way to keep backups. depending on the type of data and whether it is personal or business. for small amounts of data and less critical data cd and dvd media will work fine. for more business like situations, tape backups are still the way to back up systems. with the cost of huge capacity hds now days it is relatively inexpensive to create a raid array of hd that can provide an excellent form of backup and protection. redundant hd systems work well too. what you are willing to do and what you are willing to invest in your data will help you determine the backup system you choose. randy
my data recovery specialist told me my data would take up over 20 dvds so i think i'm going to have to buy and ship them a new hard drive.
you do not say if that contains your data only or data and program files. assuming it is data only and figuring they get 5 gig on each dvd that comes out to 100 gig there friend. if it were me, i'd go the hard drive route, which i do, and if you can muster the cost, make that two hard drive backups, not just one, although, you'd probably be ok with one. actually, just do a ghost to the hard drive and then, update your data as you continue operation periodically.
1. seagate (models since 1998 only) cheaply made, but getting much better. i never thought i would be putting seagate back on the top of the list but.... seagate now has the fewest failures of all the drives made now. they do make cheap consumer models, but they also have a much better line of drives that cost a little more. your drive, is not the item you want to try to save a buck on! which seagate hd are the best though? i only need to store camcorder video footage on it only. i don't need much more than 320 gb, any suggestions?
for video files you may want to consider the av versions of the seagate drives as they have specific drives oriented toward audio video files. randy
