i removed and refilled the black ink cartridge on my 880 and and could not get it to print. multiable cleanings would not improve quality of color so i removed it also and filled all the head wells with head cleaning fluid. [read this was very effective on episons] now black or color will not print. is this one of the episons that has a chip to stop reuse of cartridges? jand
if this is the first time refill and it doesn't work, then you may have the chipped ink cartridge. bob
after removal neither black which, printed well or color,poor quality, would work. it's a second hand printer but worked when i got it.
send a note to the guy at atlascopy.com, he knows a lot - fj
oops meant to say would not work sorry
you don't want to know i tossed out an epson c80 last week. i think someone carted it off and they won't write a similar post. nothing tells me that your printer actually works. on the downside i had to buy a full set of new ink to see if the printer had failed. of course it had failed. so smarting from that failure i bought a new printer and am back in business. to remove part of the stinging feeling i lucked out and found another c80 owner and shipped him the full set of inks, then tossed out the old printer. you have to grapple with these printers since the costs are now so low that a full set of inks is close to what the new printer is... bob
seems i've not been clear last night. printer worked when i got it except red ink had lines. cleaning heads with head cleaning did not improve this. after using printer for a while the black ink indicator said to replace it. i refilled the black and it would not work after multiable cleanings. decided to remove both and use head cleaner in wells. then neither cartridge would work. that's why i wondered if this epson was one that had the chips to prevent the use of cartiadges once they were removed. trying to figure out if i need a chip or a printer. sorry for the confusion. jand
sadly, if cleaning doesn't clear that up (you have to try some dozen times, then you have to decide if its worth it for a new printhead. the &quot;chip&quot; on the inkcarts was visible on all the epson models i've seen. it's a little green/blue circuit board. refilling might be possible, but i never have. bob
thanks for your patience. did 8-10 cleanings with no results. have some destructions for dismanteling and cleaning this printer. guess i have nothing to loose at this point. jand
