i own a sony vaio vgc-ra826g, currently running vista ultimate under 2gb of ram (400mhz pc3200 ddr; 4x512mb modules). is there a bios limitation that would prevent the system from working if i were to put four 1gb 400mz pc3200 chips in? or is it more of a physical limitation of the motherboard? i'm also wondering if the motherboard would support a more recent cpu. right now, it has the oem 3.4ghz pentium 4/ht. i've asked both questions of sony but did not receive any response.
the 2.0 gb limit can be pushed up to 3.0gb but then the applications need compiling with (you guessed it, a ms compiler) a special switch to use more than 2.0gb. i'd not go with more for 99% of the machines out there. bob
32bit systems are limited at 4096m unless pae is in the chip and can be activated in the bios.
you may confuse most with such a reply. keep it simple and tell them how many consumer machines have pae.
&quot;read this  and do if you dare&quot; would be more effective?
which is why we really need to not confuse anyone by mentioning it as a possible solution.
thank you for all the information. i've been eyeballing a kit on tigerdirect for $533 that allows up to 8gb of ram (and i do have a 64-bit copy of vista...). now at least i know how i can &quot;help the economy&quot; with that rebate check! lol thanks again.
i really like the way my computer is setup, but would like to get more speed from it. i am running windows vista home premiem. i have started a little shot and burn wedding photograghy business and my amd 64x2 4200 cpu and 2 gig of ram is a little on the slow side when doing 500 or 600 pictures in photoshop. i would like to speed things up if possible. if i were to replace the motherboard,cpu and go to duel channel ddr2 memory would i have to format the hard drive and re-install windows vista, the drivers and everything that goes with it?. i also plan on upgrading the power supply from the 300watt that is in there now to a antec 550watt. i have a 7600gs video card so i think that should be ok for what i will be doing. price wise it comes out cheaper than buying a whole new system. any advise would be apperciated. thanks wayne
i see i put my post in the wrong place? will start a new one.
for the upgrade you can put up to 4gb in a machine with a 32 bit op/sys. you will only get to use about 3.5gb as you will lose the .5 gig for the video and other hardware cards and cache . but possibly more importantly you will probably lose vista as it will fail to reboot as it will consider itself in a new machine and demand you buy it again. so now you can buy the 64 bit version. then you will find it does not work as half your hardware will be unsupported by vista and the other half will not have a working manufacturer's driver available. so you see its now a race. will vista 32 bit become so big with all the shambolic code errors that it will not run even within its own maximum address space or will 64 bit collapse in a useless heap as a result of no drivers. my guess is dead heat and vista will be canned altogether, as was millennium
