i would like to build a dual processor computer but i don't know what motherboards can support this and what processors work best. i like to multi task and my computer now is just slow when i'm doing anything that's processor intensive such as encoding a dvd. i read about multi-core processors and if they work the same as dual processor then i suppose i could use that. thanks
you are looking at opterons and xeons. the p4 is not a dual cpu design. however, the ht version of the p4 does show dual cpus in windows nt, 2000, xp and linux. and does pretty darn good in transcoding sessions at a good price compared to dual cpu opteron/xeon based computers. today, i'd get a 3+ghz p4 with 800mhz fsb, later this year a dual core athlon 64. bob
the opteron and xeon are pretty expensive. are there no cheaper processors that can be dual?
for intel, the i486dx, most of the pentiums, p2, p3. the p4 is not a dual cpu design. then we have the xeon and itaniums. for sun, then have some units from 1 to a few hundred sparc cpus. the old mips cpu was multiple cpu capable, but stickly listed for mention... then we have the alpha, but not in wide distribution. in the apple camp, they have some dual powerpc or powerspec or such. i hope this gives you the lay of the land today. the ht tends to be you lowest cost almost full dual core unit today. bob
what motherboards are good but cost effective? i would like to build a decent dual processor system below $1500 is at all possible. also i thought amd had some processors that could be used as dual processors if the motherboard supported it? will the multi core be faster than dual processor systems nowdays even though they sound the same? i'm really not all that dumb when it comes to putting a computer together i just am not good at putting this processor with that motherboard. if i can just get those 2 picked out i think i can take it from there. i would have bought a system but i can't find many places online that sell dual processor desktops. thanks!
those were not &quot;friendly&quot; to builders. most builders tried to shortchange the power supply or the case cooling. if this is your first pc build you will not be happy. not many places sell dual cpu boards. it's a premium product. bob
how can i tell which motherboards are dual processor capable? for example at pricewatch.com
it should be fairly obvious. it will be outrageously expensive, and the dual processor sockets are pretty distinct.
this board supports dual xeon processors up to 3.6ghz a peice. it has support for up to 16gb's of dual channel ddr2 ram, it has pci express... the works. but a board like this and the dual processors will most likely cost you $1500 by themselves.
you never said what you are using now? anyway i built a dual processor piii tualitin 1.2ghz with 1gb ram 2 years ago, very fast for the time. it would render a 20min vedio segment in about 12~14min. complete a seti unit in 5~6 hours. got everything off ebay ended up spending about $700. an amd2700xp will outrun it, an amd 64 3000 will eat it alvie, do a seti unit in 2.7 hours. remember when your encoding a dvd or any video app. there is no multi-tasking no matter how fast your processor is since those programs take all of the cpu(s) cycles, they just getit done faster. add up the cost of one expensive but superfast pc, or 2 fast pcs but reasonible cost. i have 4 pcs on a kvm switch and just switch to a different pc when one is rendering video. your choice, john
