i did several tests with occt and latencymon when i do 100% load to cpu or 100% load to gpu it's working fine when using 100% load on both the same time i got frame rate drop in spikes and hiccups on the 3d rendering i did a latency test with latencymon. it was actually ok i even got less latency under heavy load then with normal use of pc switching between programs gives a short high latency spike though in short how can i make the hiccups and framerate drops dissepear?
if you've been around there is a race between games that tax the hardware and hardware that improves and provides more cpu/gpu power. if you reach some plateau then you have to improve or replace the pc or parts. it's a shame you only posted what you did and not the reason you did all this latency testing. in itself it's just a test and doesn't mean there is a real problem to solve. also, not a word about your pentium 4 machine? bob
ii'll go in more detail i have the problem with games on high settings give this framerate drops and sometimes my pc crashes because of it i was looking on the internet for a possible cause and ended op testing serveral things
i find that i get to check out the machine's power and cooling far sooner than diving into any latency tests. too bad there is so little detail about this pc. bob
my psu average should be 455w it has a 600w ocz zs single rail 12v has 38 amps on it (those are calculations i did) motherboard is gigabyte ga-h67ma-usb3-b3 i'm using a vga screen (not dvi or hdmi) samsung e2220n ram kingston 2x2gb khw1600c9d3bik2/4gx processor core i5 2400 hard disk western digital wd1002faex caviar black 3 120mm fans with fan control on the case
i haven't seen short term cooling problems for long term i can't say
video card is a radeon 7870 ghz edition
you always run into clients that tell you how many fans are on the case or &quot;it's not heat.&quot; i don't see the video (could have missed it) but you see the 8800's and others failing now. you asked about latency so let's read this from toms. &quot;our tests demonstrate fairly little difference between a $225 lga 1155 core i5-2500k and a $1000 lga 2011 core i7-3960x, even when three-way graphics card configurations are involved. it turns out that memory bandwidth and pcie throughput don't hold back the performance of existing sandy bridge-based machines. &quot;  since you have a nearly same cpu and it can drive three cards without much issue, your issue must be somewhere else. if it's crashing, then you know to try the usual. ask if you didn't know. bob
and it gave around 75&#176;c at 100% load for one hour
but i've watched folk run memtest for weeks and still have a memory issue. you bring up a great point. how did this industry get here without decent diagnostics? (no, i really don't know.) bob
i have some knowledge about it but not enough i think so you may spell it out
i missed what video card is in use. when i see such i replace the heat sink compounds as we can't see what the original builder did. be sure to nod and smile at your client but do the work. leave the side cover off and point some fan at it and try again. if it crashes take the inventory of the machine to ask if others are seeing this. bob
thank you for the advice, i'll take some time tommorrow to try it out then i'll say what i see
and find out this is an older card or one of the 8400/8600 line. even the 8800's are failing now. just old cards. some clients morn the loss. bob
i didn't clean the heatsink yet but i noticed what's the problem here i checked the cpu usage while running the gpu on 100% it only takes 5 to 10% of cpu usage but when my cpu and gpu are 100% loaded he can't do that 5 to 10% cpu usage correctly hence the framerate spike drops i do get this problem with games because it probably taxes my cpu too much as well i thought he would just lower the framerate of th gpu to compensate the load on the cpu but apperently i'm wrong
tdp of the cpu is probably the cause of my pc crashing
&quot;video card is a radeon 7870 ghz edition&quot;. see 5th message in string.
it's obviously a buggy machine. ask the maker/seller what to exchange. sure, you could do the usual bios and driver updates and hope but this one is back to it's makers since it's failing when new. bob
