hi everyone! i was wondering if there was a usb dongle that works like a router. that i can plug it into my computer, which has a wlan connected, and it will become an access point for wifi. basically a router that is as small as a usb flash drive. thanks to those who help!
what is your pc currently connected to and how? if you go straight to a modem, then you buy a standard wireless router. if you're connected to a wired router, you add a wireless access point to that. if you want others to connect through your pc, what you'd need is a wireless network interface device that can act as an ap and be bridged to your wired nic. in any event, i think you're looking for an ap and not a router unless you have some other purpose here. maybe if you could explain more about your plan, it would get you a better answer.
thank you so much for replying steven haninger! i have a wired connection, cable. cable plugged into modem and modem plugged into pc. that's it. i know there are usb flash drive-sized wireless adapters, that pick up wireless from existing access points. but i would like to know if there's a flash drive-sized router. where i can plug it into my wired pc and it will broadcast my internet. i just want an access point made from my wired connection, but not with something as big as a router. thanks again for all your help!
there is ics which i will no longer write about. too unreliable, twitchy to setup so google ics and move on. the honest truth is a router is just as much money as a usb wifi anything. bob
thanks! but money's not the problem. i just want it to be portable and a snap to set up. i once got such a thing for the wii nintendo system. it's as small as a usb flash drive, you simply plug it into a computer that has a wired connection and it will broadcast that connection to become an access point. but it only works for nintendo products.
and see if such is out there. what's odd is that a portable wifi router is easy to find. setup is no harder than any router setup. bob
&quot;a portable wifi router is easy to find. setup is no harder than any router setup&quot; can you point me to one? thanks again for your help
typing in &quot;portable wifi routers&quot;. you'll see most are designed for mobile use. but, since you said that a standard router was too big, are you sure that something the size of a deck of cards would be acceptable but not one as big as a paperback book? is that what's most important to you. otherwise, about all i can think is that maybe you insist that your pc be on before the connection even exists. keep in mind that part of what a router does is handle ip addressing on a network and that connecting such to your laptop would create a separate network as well. i also can't see anyway that doing what you're asking isn't going to cripple your laptop in some regard. a wireless router connected to your modem would do all you seem to want if you could find about 40 or so cubic inches of space.
dear sirs, please link  you will find the products - usb wifi router which meet your requirments. thanks
