as i am sure you know, part of the regular maintenance of a computer is to clean out the dust in it every so often. i leave my desktop computer on the floor to have more room on my desk, so it accumulates lots of dust. i was going to use my small, portable vacuum cleaner to clean my computer but was told by a friend not to use it because it may cause static or &quot;shoot&quot; something into the computer. when i use the small compressed air cans, it often seems like they don't have sufficient power to thoroughly clean my computer. 1) what is the best way to clean out the dust and debris in a computer? 2) can i use a portable vacuum to do the job? thanks. richard
i don't think i would ever put a vacuum into the computer, maybe parts like in the front where some dust might collect i wouldn't be running it over all the parts in the computer. i don't know what air you are buying but all the time i have used air it is way powerful enough to lean anything i need out of the computer. after the can of air has been used for a while the presure does go down. a can of air costs like $2.00 at wal-mart. that is what i have always used.
a vac and a small brush for years...works fine. don't get &quot;ham handed&quot; with the vac. i can clean most of the innards without touching anything with the vac...just get it close. heatsinks/fans/stubborn stuff..use the small brush and then bring the vac close. there may be no right or wrong way to do this. heck...one forum member uses 409 and a garden hose.
i use my campbell-hausfeld 80 gallon compressor set at 80 pounds. really. i take the case into the garage and blow it out. using a vacuum can cause a problem. air moving through the plastic hose generates static electricity. really. using plastic brushes will conduct static electricity. really. static electricity and ics don't mix. before you have a stroke, remember this. anything in the pc that can be damaged by compressed air doesn't belong there. wayne there are 10 types of people who understand binary; those that do and those that don't. click here to see the cnet faces, learn a little about analog and digital data, internet connections, spyware removal, and download free software.
i suggest anyone using compressed/canned air in any form, beware of not blowing too hard(spinning) any fans. the &quot;geewiz&quot; factor of blowing a fan into untold rpms isn't good and can easily damage them. further, any jumpers need be noted in case they are blown out/off. tada -----willy
