what is everyone's opinion of airlink? i have an airlink wireless g router and am having trouble getting a steady connection on it. most of the times it works, but a couple of times a day it seems to die for a few minutes. turning wep off helped, but didn't fix the problem entirely.
i forgot to say that sometimes i can get one website and not another. just a couple of minutes ago i could access wikipedia but not cnet or my school's website (byu.edu). any ideas?
for the tips you need to keep a connection. rick
i am not trying to find information on how to work a router in general. i know typical installations. and it isn't some vista bug that is causing problems because i have two xp machines and one mac that are experiencing the same problem. i just wanted to know if anybody else is having problems with this brand. do you have experience with this brand?
1. i re-read your post and couldn't tell if you followed the suggestions in our forum sticky. 2. &quot;but a couple of times a day it seems to die for a few minutes&quot; is typical of when you or your neighbor has those 2.4ghz cordless phones. there's no fix for this if you can't banish them except to get wired. bob
airlink technology and mfg is no better or worse than other brands. they package wifi chipsets & rf just like the others do. their firmware lack fancy features available in the linksys, netgear, dlink and buffalo brands but it works reliably. your problem may be in setup as other replies suggest. i will only add that if your ap/router is not mimo, you can expect poorer connections. for the low price nowadays, always get a mimo (g or n) device. the client need not be mimo.
i hadn't thought of wireless phones. i will check this out, see if one of my neighbors has one.
thank you for your post. i will try some different settings to get it to work better.
i wired a computer into the router, and still have issues. i will probably just reset the router every week. that seems to work for a while.
and it's my laptop then i know the router has issues. or someone is running p2p applications. some routers have issues with p2p but do check for their latest firmware and tell us if you are running p2p. bob
