dear all, i have problem with small eprom, that can read and write the data, but it has only 2 pins. cause the name and mark was earase, so i could not know what is it to find. it has three pins look like transitor, but using only two pins. so any body know well about that eprom can show me where can find it? thank so much for instruction. le lt
your best bet is the maker's manual for technical repairs, shecmatics and such. since, you didn't mention even the product, well alot is not known. i can only assume the eprom is special or rated for certain usage and pins are cut or made w/o them in order to fulfill its mission. but, it maybe a generic(you find one, then clip pins) eprom done in this matter only because the oem wants it that way. -----willy
read  for an example of such a component. i have such in my one wire weatherstation. one wire evaluation kits are available from maxim. bob
i read this, and i suspect you are talking about the clear eprom header that a lot of motherboards have. it is a three pin connector with a jumper that you pull from the one side and put across the other side to clear the eeprom(to reset the bios eeprom back to the factory defaults) i may be off base about this, but from your post i am guessing that you are not talking about a special eeprom like the one wire eeprom... if i am wrong, then never mind... if you are trying to clear your bios eprom, then you need to look in the motherboard manual, or just look at the motherboard and find the 3 pin header with erase marked next to the pin that is not jumpered.
i think it is one wire eprom, if you know about it, please show me the equipment that can read and write this. thank you so much. le long
dear bob, thank you so much for showing, can you tell me where can get read and write equipment for this eprom? yours truly, le long
i have the dallas (now maxim) one-wire ws-1 and other items. i will not give you the exact order page since it's something you can find with google.com, or at maxim's site. try  bob
