hi all, i have a very pesky network printing problem on my home network. i have two vista home computers, one xp computer and a printer in my home network. printer is connected to the network through a wirless switch together with one of the vista computers that it is connected to. the network is connected to internet through a wireless router (although two vista computers are connected to it through wire). everythig in the network is working fine except for one thing. i cannot print from one of the non-admin accounts on the vista computer that does not have the printer connected to it. printing works from the admin account on that computer. i use norton security on all 3 computers in the network and and have setup a full trust in norton to all devices in the network. the printer sharing is setup such that everybody can share and use the printer. when i send the document to print from this non-admin user account it sends the document but printer never reacts. the document status in print queue displays &quot;printing&quot;. would anybody know what else i need to do? thanks, milorad
only those with an account on the machines in question. it is not correct to think otherwise. so let's say that bob is a non-admin account. fine. but does bob have an account on the machine with the share? many forget this trivia about windows networking.
assuming that the printer you want to share is just a printer (meaning not an aio because with this solution you may lose scanning capability) you can place the printer on your network via a usb print server and connect it directly to your router via ethernet cable. any desktop/laptop connected to the network (wired or wireless) can share the printer using the ip address of the printer during printer setup on each computer. if your router is configured to do so it will generate an ip address automatically; or you can assign one yourself. of course, each desktop/laptop on the network must register with the proper wep, wpa or wpa2 security, unless your network is unsecured
