i need a recommendation on a program for scanning my hard drives for any sort of surface damage. i've been hearing a noise from time to time on my 2nd hard drive sort of a squeaking noise and i'm worried it might be something wrong.
what make drive? many makers offer such software. while i could note some names i prefer to start with the maker's offerings first. bob
the model is a wd caviar se16 500gb i checked out the page on there site and downloaded a data lifeguard program, but it said it was incompatible with vista.
&quot;the dos version is required if installing a hard drive in a new system without existing operating system support.&quot; we can use that since you might have vista 64 bit (do you?) you may have to change a bios setting to enable booting from cd or even emulate ide over sata but this is their test tool.  shows this version. there is also some confusion where a person does not try the windows version on vista 32 bit. i found that to work fine. bob
the nice thing about the free version of  's free version is that it won't let you do anything dangerous. on some drive/controller configurations it won't display the smart attributes; but, the error scan will simply read the entire drive at the sector level. it will take over an hour to check a 500gb drive; but, even one red box is notice of impending failure and i recommend running it about once a year for safety.
i'll tryout hdtune davis. thanks bob for trying to help me out too.
htttp:// vapcmd
i want to get a second opinion from there program, but don't understand how to use it.
i am running 64bit vista.
nwcdex was the mscdex equivalent from dr-dos. but now i read it is part of partition magic. but it had to do with mounting and reading a cd in dos. so please tell more. what program do you mean? what do you want to do with it? and a link to releevant info (like a manual, if possible) on the internet, please
on the dos screen it says nwcdex.exe needs me to specify a driver name. the program i was trying to use is called data lifeguard tools from western digital the windows version didn't work so i was going to try the dos, but there seems to be a problem running this too. here is a link to there page
i was trying to install the wrong tool. what i needed was the diagnostics program it installed without a problem. i can be so silly at times. thanks everybody for helping me out and sorry for wasting time.
the questions were fine and with a little trial and effort on your part you found which tool they offered that worked. bob
grc's spinrite is the best disk tool there is for surface and read/write errors. it costs 80 bucks, but it's worth it for all it does.
i would like to thank all you guys for your postings,i had no idea such utilities existed,i had a problem with my hd few weeks ago,where the error message said &quot; no operating system installed &quot; i have since got the drive working again,at the cost of losing all my photo's etc,and although i had backed up with cd, i had still lost a great deal that i had not had time to back-up. having downloaded the freebie suggested, i find my hd is in good health,and no i will not download a reg-cleaner again,as i think this caused the problem {:o( manny
if you're hearing squeeking from a hd, it's not scraping from the surface. hd platter surfaces are extremly sensitive, if the heads crashed on a platter it'd likely ruin the entire drive. to check a drive, right-click the drive icon, click on properties, then on the tools tab. click on error checking to test for bad sectors and other problems. as you now know, there's more extensive checking programs, but you were concernend about surface damage and this'll check for that.
hard drive noise is a sure sign of a problem. i'd suggest you replace it and in a hurry.
