hey is there anyone who can help me? i have an dell dimesion 4400 very old it has a dpt478 motherboard. i have a 1.6 pentium in it and have just scored a celeron d335+ processor. i see the cooling fan and heat sinks dont fit but can i still use the processor with my old coolling system? do i have to edit and bios ****? any help would be much apreciated...
you might be able to. go into your bios and see if there is a cpu temperature reading if you want to use the old heatsink and fan. remember you need to grease the heatsink with the cpu. besides, don't the cpu you have came with a heatsink and fan combo, mine did but it was a pentinum d. if not, look up a heatsink with the correct socket for the motherboard. you can look it up on yahoo or google and find the motherboard and its socket type. hope that helps.
heatsink/fan mounting is standardized for socket 478 and that's a mid-tower case so height shouldn't be an issue. i wouldn't recommend using the original cooler since this cpu runs more than 1ghz higher (and hotter) than your original cpu. the latest bios for that system is from june 2002, 2 full years prior to the release of the celeron 335. the dimension's bios may not know how to deal with that cpu.
hey thanks for replying, o.k well i.ve tryed the new processor (celeron d 335+) and no go my computer or motherboard or whatever wont reconize it. so i've looked all over the net and have found out that intel no longer supports my motherboard but the last info on it that they posted was it supported a celeron 1.8 i think it was, so i'm thinking that if i change my bios to read the new processor it will work (i'm new to this stuff so if i'm totally wrong dont hold it against me.)
exactly what i was thinking. can i change the bios to read the new cpu? if so can you tell me how? and as to the fan thing i dont have a clue why it doesnt fit the old system was a alu block mounted to the cpu with the fan mounted to the casing. the new systems clamps are completly different to the old.
you may be able to get an updated bios from here:  but i think you're beating a dead horse. after the bios update and cpu change, windows may need to be reinstalled or reactivated. you may just have problem after problem to deal with.
if you are sure and double check what the bios update will support then it should recognize the celeron d 1.8 you are referring to. it should work because i just changed from celeron d to pentinum d on my intel motherboard but luckily i did not need to update my bios.
