hello, i just got a new asus a8v motherboard, and its not booting. it turns on when i press the button, but i get no signal sent to the monitor, and i get a faint beep that sounds like it might be posting. here's what im running; asus a8v k8t800 pro mobo amd athalon 4000+ clawhammer 939 pin chaintech geforce 5500fx - agp 4x/8x corsair valueselect 1gb (2 x 512mb) 184-pin ddr sdram ddr 400 so, i got the board monday, i plugged everyhting in im not getting anything. any ideas on what the problem might be? i know that the ram isnt on the preffered list, but im not sure how picky this board is. here is a little bit more info. prior to monday, i was runnign the same setup except i had a msi k8n neo2 platinum mobo. for a while i was having a problem where it was locking up durring boot, or the monitor would switch off. last week i lost video. i had run some ram tests before and they both passed, so i ruled them out as the problem. last week, i lost my video again, and it didnt come back when rebooting. i ran down to staples, thinking that my vid card may have burned out, and got another geforce 5500. when i put the new card in, i still was getting nothing. eventualy, i put the old card back in and after i tried i a few more times, the video came back. this let me rule out the video card being bad, becasue i figgured the new one would have worked if that was the problem. this also led me to the conclusion that the msi mobo was bad. but now that i have the asus in and still am having no luck getting it working, im hoping that its not somehting like the processor. anyway, i know that was a bit long winded, but i wanted to get all the info in there. any one have any ideas, or have a similar experince? thanks -christian
what type of psu, how many total watts and how many amps on 12v rail and have you checked it out as being the possible culprit?
i am going to try and pick one up on my way home from work today to see fi that is the problem, thansk for the help
ok, so somewhere along the line, i screwed up. after buying a new powersupply and still nothign happening, i was pretty much ready to give up. on a whim, i lugged the computer down to my dads and hooked up his monitor just to see if anyhtign was goin on, and lo and behold, up came the bios. aparently, not only has my monitor gone bad, but also my back up monitor. (could just be the cable) anyway, here is the new problem. i was able to get inot grub to choose if i wanted to boot into windows and linux. but when i choose one, the computer restarts. so i figgured that i would just start by wiping the drives, and throwing windows back on there. i can boot off my instal cd, and i get into the set up screen, but the windows set up is telling me that it cant locate a hard drive. when i check the bios, it tells me that my hard drives are there. even the fact that i can get to grub (and even to the part where windows asks if i want to boot in safe mode, the last known good config, or normal) tells me that the hard drives are there. what should i do?
a lot of the internals of your computer perhaps you have a windows registration problem, as it is no longer recognised by the new motherboard. or, you have to change some default bios settings at boot. check the asus manual.
i checked my bios settings last night and didnt see anything in particular that i thought would address this problem. i also put the cd that came along with the mobo in and booted from that in hopes that it would have somehting on there to fix my problem. do you think the fact the i dual boot to linux has any thign to do with the windows setup not beaingabel to see the drive?
i also have the same motherboard and experienced boot problems. what you will probably have to do for your system to remain stable, is to update the motherboard bios on the asus website. they have instructions on what you will need to do.
tried 2 and gave up....replaced it with an msi
yep i had same problem with my pc! after replacing one ram stick dvd motherborad, 3rd one! and hard drive! windows would not install called microsoft and problem fixed1
