12841	0	304814	2834195	nr	zeedlefire	8/14/08 9:23 pm	1.21874898e12	no post, no beeps, no video on start up, please help me out.	im looking for help with what appears to be a common yet very fatal error with my pc. when i press the power button, the tower lights turn on, fans start up, but i get no post, no beeps, and of course no video. now, a week or two prior to the pc basically dieing, i was experiencing some very strange behavior from my pc which, at the time, i thought was video related. while in the middle of playing a game (wow if it matters, though im sure it doesnt), the computer would crash, causing the image on screen to become distorted and repeat itself in rows across the monitor. it looked kinda like if you tiled a small picture onto the background of your desktop. anyway this weird freeze started happening about once a day. audio would still be playing out of the speakers, but as far as the screen, i had to keep reseting the pc to get out of it. after a while it started happening more and more frequently to the point where i could only be in game for a minute or two before the pc would crash. things only got worse from there. this weird graphical glitch started happening outside of the game now. watching a video on youtube, for example, would cause the same error to occur. after that the screen glitch would occur while simply being idle in my desktop. after that, it started happening at the login screen, and once it even happened during a post. then finally, one morning when i tired to start it up, the pc refused to boot, and here i am today asking you all for help. here are my pcs specs: motherboard: asus a2n-sli deluxe cpu: amd athlon 64 x2 dual core 3.0ghz psu: enermax 600w noisetaker ii video card: geforce 6800gt x2 (sli) ram: 2gb kingston hyperx ddr2 (2 sticks, 1gb each) i dont have a second computer to test components in, so the best i have been able to do is run some rough tests with a barebones setup outside of the case using: the psu 1 stick of ram 1 video card the cpu and heatsink fan (no new thermal compound applied yet) and ofcourse my monitor. the first thing i noticed when i opened the case was that the cpu was stuck to the heatsink fan. with the help of a hairdryer, i was able to ease it off. i inspected the cpu and found that no pins were bent or broken; everything looked ok. (i just thought id include that little bit on information in case it has some relevance to what the problem might be.) anyway, onto the tests: for obvious reasons, i wanted to test the video card first. after basically watching any sort of graphical performance from this pc degenerate into crap, i was fairly convinced that the video card the monitor was plugged into had gone bad. besides, i had been having a lot of driver errors recently with these video cards (which i believed i had resolved), so at the time there was no doubt in my mind that one of them was the culprit. unfortunately, as i said earlier, i have no second pc to swap components with, so the best i could do was swap my lead video card (the one on top in my sli set up) with the other one. unfortunately, this solved nothing. with my second video card installed in the barebones setup, i was still getting no post, no beeps, and no video. this discouraged me quite a bit. is it possible for both video cards in an sli setup to go bad at the same time? i had no clue, so for the time being i decided to test other pieces: -swapping out my ram with the other stick yielded no results. -removing all ram from the setup gave me an error beepcode. -removing all video cards gave me another error beepcode. -after leaving the power on for a few minutes, the cpu would get warm and so i turn to anyone willing to read this post. i know its long, but i wanted to include as much information as possible, since i seriously do not know what to do next. whats the problem? is it the mobo? i know mobos cause this problem a lot, but the fact that i was getting error beepcodes caused me to believe otherwise. am i wrong? is it the cpu? the fact that it was basically welded onto the hsf when i first opened the case seemed a little weird, and again, i know that faulty cpus cause this problem a lot too. is it possible that a lack of thermal compound can cause barebones setup to not boot? is it the video cards? cause if you said yes id believe you without question. but the fact that neither card changed anything caused me to second guess myself. is it possible for both cards to go bad at the same time? i dont know, so i have not come to a conclusion. is it something else? is this no boot problem even related to the video errors i was getting prior to it dieing? please help me out. if any part of my story has yielded some sort of hint that i clearly am not seeing, please tell me.
12841	1	304814	2834238	2834195	willy	8/15/08 12:21 am	1.21875966e12	inspect and check	it appears you've done all you can. i would suggest replacing the psu. if you system wasn't cooled enough during all the time you had it, it experienced &quot;heat stress&quot; which in turn applies to all componets. what gave out or became the weak link can be anything. since, you play as gamer you can drive the system to extremes and cause an earlier death. in other words, it was pushed until it pushed back and failed. even if you replaced the psu there's no guarantee it will work, though it may. many times removing parts to other system alone, they work, but once all together again, they don't as a package. as for the cpu being stuck(welded), heat will cause air to be driven out and be some suction from application & dryness of the goop over time. in many cases, i look at the psu or mtrbd. being at fault. you can google for t/s'ing guides but you did alot of what to test. of course, replacing parts is about what you can do since you don't have another system. also, return the bios setting to defaults if you tweaked them for performance setting. tada -----willy
12841	2	304814	2834668	2834238	zeedlefire	8/15/08 4:59 pm	1.21881954e12	thanks willy	thanks for the reply willy. i was able to test my psu with my brother's very old pc (its the only component still compatible with his set up) and it started up fine. while i am not entirely sure this was the most effective test (his pc is going on 5 years old), it proves my psu isn't completely dead. should i just rma my mobo and see what comes back?
12841	3	304814	2834699	2834668	willy	8/15/08 6:09 pm	1.21882374e12	use your options	if you can rma after 5yrs. heck go for it. psu are strange items, i often post that they lose their &quot;phuumf&quot; after awhile. the other half is the mtrbd. and since logic is part of the &quot;start-up ckt&quot; something a user can't fix, a replacement mtrbd. may be the fix. however, as i stated it can be anything or a &quot;combo&quot; of problems. tada -----willy
