i have been trying to connect to the internet and to the other computers that are both on the lan. i get the following messages on the two frequently used computers on the lan: status: limited or no connectivity you might not be able to access the internet or some network resources. this problem occurred because the network did not assign a network adress to the computer. if clicking repair does not restore connectivity, the problem might be with the network, not with this computer&quot; i tried to repair and this was unsuccessful. i updated my lavasoft ad-aware se professional ref. file (23.03.2005) recently and i read something about some people having network problems after. i am using an ibm thinkpad (xp professional sp 2, intel pentium m 1400mhz 598 mhz. 256 mb of ram). i had to connect to internet via 56k modem. i just updated ref. file (11.04.2005) on this ibm and i am now up-to-date on windows update. the other computer is a &quot;clone&quot; (correct term?) running xp home sp 2, pentium 4,...) the lan was running perfect 2 days ago up to now and i checked all cables. dsl modem says all go. is there any other information u need? i need my internet back! ** my apologies, i created identical discussions in other forums but it took me a while to find out where exactly to post it.
wired and or wireless? up to date firmware for the router?
it is a wired lan. and i havent updated the firmware in a while. could this be the fix. i will try updating it and reply.
im using a d-link des-1008d switch. it is a product of d-link in australia & new zealand, france and uk. these websites show that they are no drivers available for this product. does that mean its not the problem then? im sure this problem is not so rare and the fix isnt too tedious. the hardest part is finding out what to do. help in addition to original message: i tried hooking up the dsl straight to the computer and i got the same response.
switch. as such your network configuration needs some clarification. which device goes into what other device and how it connects needs to be explained. what type of internet connection software is being used in lieu of a router? further, when you connect the dsl modem directly to the pc you would need to run the dsl install software being used by the isp. entries such as user name and password needs to be authenticated when not using a router.
i have 2 pc's (98, xp) plus a laptop (xp) that are connected to the switch. the 98 machine is rarely used. each computer has its own &quot;network wire (rj-45?)&quot; hooked up to the switch. the dsl is also hooked up to the switch. is that what u wanted to know?
flawed. the first computer to log on will grab the ip address from the modem. if another computer logs in no ip address will be available. the correct configuration would be to: 1) add a router between the modem and the pcs or 2) use a proxy server program or ics to dish out the lan ips to the various pcs.
