for all my attempts, i haven't been able to create a 3-monitor setup. i'm running windows xp pro. and i've got two graphic cards installed in my tower: ati radeon hd 3650 (agp), and ati radeon 9250 (pci). both of the ati variety. my assessment of the issue from what i've seen is that for some reason the drivers for both of my graphics cards can't be installed at the same time. some sort of conflict. i can get each card's drivers installed and working great, so i know both cards do work. however, soon as i install the drivers for the second card, i get a blue screen and have to roll back to a system restore point. i'm sure i have the correct drivers for each card. i've even tried manually installing drivers. i've used driver sweeper after each failed attempt to wipe the slate clean and try again. but no go. one of the things i run into is when i have the pci's drivers installed and restart and proceed to install the agp's, i get asked if i want to replace system32's &quot;ati2evxx.exe&quot; and &quot;ati2evxx.dll&quot; files with the two new ones from the source install. it would also say that they are different versions of english (i.e. one on my computer already is &quot;english (candida)&quot; while the other is &quot;english (american).&quot; don't know if this is the root of the conflict between the drivers. does anyone have any pointers that will get all these monitors jiving? i know believe i'm almost there. i'm assuming that if i can get over this hurdle of non-coexisting drivers, i'd be on my way to three monitor heaven. thanks, +spari
if anyone has any ideas, i would really appreciate the help.
i wrestled with similar cards a few years ago. i finally changed the cards out to the other camp and it worked. i am not going to tell you these setups always work but the lesson i learned is if it's for the office i mandate we get the quad output card. bob
it probably would be a problem solved if i changed my graphics cards to two more modern ones that were somewhat guaranteed to work together to create a three monitor setup. i wish i could. i'm positive that there is a specific answer to the specific problem i'm facing with these ati cards. that said, i appreciate your input.
it's the suspect in my book. i know that you wish that someone would tell you to run driver version 10.2 but no one seems to know that. i'd change that older card for anything else. bob
i'd hate to spend money on this idea. it isn't as cool a thing when you can just throw money at a problem. sometimes it sucks all the creativity out of finding a solution. that said, i've been thinking that it may be a good idea to pick up a late model dual video pci card and add that to my system along side the dual dvi agp card. if that doesn't work, i'll return the new pci card to the store and forget i ever hatched this tri-monitor egg.
