hi all, i've been wondering how is the reliability of acer desktop computers these days. are people that have them happy with their purchase. any issues? i'm looking to get a new computer (nothing major) and the price that i'm seeing here and there seems ok. i'm looking around the web and it's hard to have a clear picture as to how their desktops are. thx for the info
these seem no better or worse than all the lines from hp, dell, gateway and the ford or chevy pc makers. what i do find is that acer seems to have fair out of the box experiences and you can make a set of restore dvds (and then copy those!) then use the machine. if you want reliable, get a toaster. pcs are not very reliable... bob
so, instead of saying anything that would prejudice any one particular brand over another, i'll recommend you to consumerreports.com where you can do side by side unbiased independent comparisons of different products of the same type, such as laptops, desktops and whatnots.
reports did a report a couple months ago on computer reliability and the short version is that you are buying performance (you get what you pay for) not reliability. for the money, for basic desk top computer needs, acers are as good if not better then an emachine or a compac, again in the price point/performance. if you want something that's more up-gradable, has more under the hood, check out gateway, hp and dell. personally speaking, i find gateway a very good bang for buck at your local big box store.
bought gateway last year. the word seems to be just getting out.i have at present 5 gateway and 1 acer machines. i'm hoping that the tech support will improve at gateway, but i won't hold my breath. i had a couple of acer's back in the '90's and they were great. i went to gateway because they had a tech facility and showroom here. that is gone about 2 years now. tech support with either (now the same i suppose)has always been spotty or iffy.
acer acquired gateway which brought emachine, so the whole idea of a decent system seems remote. but, the fact remains the acer brand itself has been pretty good. it never was a big seller and that alone accounts for the quality of the brand as sloppiness didn't get passed on in mass productions numbers. support is there but once the warranty date is reached it becomes harder and you pay if dealing with acer. the same for any other brand, but acer really draws the line. tada -----willy
i bought an acers desktop on 12/15/09 for $900.00 only use it for 1 month and all of a sudden it won't turn on. i've call tech support, they aks me to purchase a $20 driver from them to reboot. i did buy the cd, reboot and still don't work. i call again they said i have to ship it in to be fix. it cost me another $20 to ship it. i receive my computer back yesterday, still not work the same problem is still there. i don't think technical support even fix it. i've call again and they said to ship it back to them again. acers is a bad choice to make, bad computer, bad company.
i had to send my acer desktop in for repair three times. each time they claimed they fixed the problem, but they didn't. their computer would show changed motherboard and memory, but the print out sent to me would show software reinstalled. the boot problem never went away until the third time. thankfully the acer office was not too far from my house - otherwise would have to pay shipping. tech support want to an indian call centre and was very scripted. so frusturating!!! i didn't learn my lesson. today i purchased another acer thinking that my first experience was just my bad luck - well right out of the box and the back end is dented in!
i dont know about you but i have acer laptop 6 years old and its working fine never anything worse than windows error message acer is cheap and no gaming machine at it
the acer's are very reliable - i have a desktop and laptop. my desktop is around 2 yrs old now and i had only one problem with it, which technical support easily solved. that is the big selling point - their after sales service is excellent, which is why i will be buying an acer when i upgrade. my laptop was bought 2nd hand, out of warranty, and when i had a problem with the cursor i contacted technical support and they solved the problem for free. an excellent range of computers too.
ummm....if you like gateway then you like acer. acer owns gateway.
