i have had this for a couple of years now without problems. all of a sudden the scanning and copying options are a major headache. every time i try to copy or scan a page, the image/copy comes out with an approx 3 inch wide black bar that runs the length of the page. printing isn't a problem, therefore i am assuming that it's something to do with the actual scanning hardware. any help or advice will be gratefully appreciated. ps. if there's a way i can attach an example, please let me know.
there is an scanning element or component in the scanning head that fails and you get color shifts to outright white or black stripes. since repairs cost more than replacement we perform the last rites.
thanks for the very prompt reply. i kind of thought that would be the case. time to review wireless aoi printers i guess. thanks again.
the dell 964 is not a wireless printer. if you are using a wireless print adapter 3300. i can give you instructions on how to set this up but, you have to tell your machine not to update the drivers for anything. this is usually how they get messed up. disconnect your printer. download and run this patch to completely remove the printer from your computer. you may have to open the patch with winrar or 7zip . ***please note the patch has a problem and will also remove the 3300 wireless print utility and dell quickset. please make sure to reinstall these programs, if you have a dell computer. restart your computer. fix your network first. update the firmware in your wireless router. manufacturer's website, make & model needed. broadcast ssid(you may want to change this to make it easier to connect) use wpa-psk(tkip) security. most wireless devices work best with this type of security. mixed b and g mode(n if available) use channels 1, 6 or 11. most devices work better on these channels. save and exit. power everything off for 30 seconds. power everything back on, wait 30 seconds,now try to connect. after router is done, now setup your wireless print server/printer. 3300 utility 3300 firmware attach the 3300 to your computer using the usb cable and insert the 3300 disk. follow the instructions. it should ask you for the network id, type of security and password. now setup the printer. download the proper drivers. xp drivers vista 32-bit drivers all other drivers install the drivers, choose network, choose i'm using a wireless print server(if you do not see this, then choose add printer and you should see it then) and follow the instructions. rick
hi pudgyone, have had my dell 964 for a while but recently changed routers and since then cannot get any of my computers to recognize the printer driver during installation. have gone through the whole step wise proces with no luck. any other advice. i have a mad with parallels with winxows xp and a pc with windows xp. i seem to always get stuck at the point where it just does not recognize the mac address or the ip address.
many forget what a new feature may do. for example i'm running into folk that enable client or ap isolation and then spend months pondering why it won't work. bob
you must setup the 3300 all over again. it needs to have the new communications with the wireless router. rick
yup, went through the whole process of setting up the router again. i can actually go to the printers ip address and also confirm this but for whatever reason the computer stlll don't recognize it during network installations of the printer. is there a manual way to set up the printer using the mac address and or ip address through the printer wizard on xp?? thanx for all your help
the instructions are noted in our forum sticky . if you're using some type of mac address filtering, that is not listed in the forum sticky and will cause you problems and headaches. rick
