i am using dell dimension 3000 computer with dell e173 fp flat panel color monitor less that two years. yesterday, when i turned on the computer, i have seen only black screen. the power led was green. when i turned off and then on the power of the monitor, the screen was normal several seconds (i saw icons on the screen) and then became black again. i ran self-test pattern and i think that the monitor does not pass it, because the self-test pattern does not scroll through the screen continually. it appeared in the left bottom corner of the screen and then in a second disappeared. please let me know where is the problem? how to solve it/ now instead of computer monitor i am using tv screen. hence, the problem is only with monitor. how to solve it? thank you in advance for help.
check the warranty but on lcd flat screens there is little an owner can fix. other test? try the screen on another pc. bob
thanks for response. i do not have the warranty. do you think that i can fix the monitor myself? how to do it? i tried already the screen on another pc. the screen remains black.
unless you get lucky and it's something like we see discussed at  what electronics background do you have? for example i have not only a volt meter but the usual oscilloscope and other electronic repair items in my little home lab. if the warranty can't be extended what stops you from opening it up and looking for bad solder joints or burnt spots? bob
dear bob: thank you very much for your response. you wrote, if the warranty can't be extended what stops you from opening you are second time paid my attention to the warranty of the monitor. the warranty of my computer system was 90 days, and i thought the monitor has the same warranty time period. after your second e-mail i started to read carefully the product information guide and have learned that my monitor has a 3-year limited warranty. i called dell and they replaced the monitor with the refurbished one. it works very well. best regards, peter
thanks for posting that it all worked out. bob
