can you suggest a decent 48 port unmanaged switch? rupesh narvekar
or required speed. personally, i always liked 3com but they got bought by hp. we picked up a 48 port baseline model for our school. its auto-sensing, 10/100 with a gigabit uplink and has worked fine. we've a couple of 24 port 3coms and one poe used for the wireless system. none have ever had a problem. these are all their &quot;baseline&quot; models which are unmanaged, rack mountable and moderately priced. i'll recommend 3com any day if you can still find their products but more about your needs would be helpful.
we have 2mbps direct internet line ( so 2 up and 2 down ). i am looking for a unmanaged switch nothing too complicated
has anybody had any issues with 3548xl-en? i am planning to use cisco 3745-hsec-vpn/k9-adsl-voip-6fe modular access router security bundle with the swicth. rupesh narvekar
since you are considering cisco for part of your system, you might want to stick with the brand. here's a 48 port poe switch they offer. i don't know the price and suspect it might make me drop over.
like most cisco gear it will run forever. this device is end of life and end of support so don't pay a lot for it maybe $100 all depends what you want to do with it, if you just want to hook a bunch of stuff to your router it will do fine even if you run vlans and such. note this is a managed switch, you may have to do some basic config.
will review that. i am not married to cisco, i am also looking at hp procurve unmanaged switch. i really don't want any managed or smart switches rupesh
and since you mentioned voip, it sounds more like a business application for telephone use. digital phones need power and this is why i wondered if poe would be a better choice. i think you've not given enough details as to exactly what you want to accomplish but if all you want is a 48 port un-managed switch, you are can pick any name brand that offers such and consider it to be expendable.
this is about $1900..wow
you did say you wanted voip and 48 ports but what i see is a business use system. if you're using voip type phones such as i've seen in some environments, they need to be powered by something. i can't imagine 48 wall outlets so suggested the poe switch. these will power phones but not all of the ports will necessarily have that power on by default. you turn power on only to the ports that need to power devices and you have a maximum amount of current to work with. there is some management involved with poe switches but it's not all that technical if it's just power management. but, if you've already got power to all of your phones via some other method, you can still use a baseline switch. i just thought this would eliminate a lot of extra wiring by getting it from the switch. it's up to you since we really cannot envision the scope of the entire project.
