i have a scan disk cruzer flash drive, and sometimes i can save to it and sometimes not. sometimes i can move from my hard drive to it and sometimes not. i generally get the message that the directory of file cannot be created. i've got room on the disk, any idea what's up? thanks.
the host machine may be ntfs which allows some name that isn't allowed on the sandisk drive. too bad you didn't share the gritty detail of the names. it's also possible to overflow the root directory of a filesystem. how many files and directories are in the root? bob
i must confess my ignorance, i have really no idea what you're talking about or asking. one name for a word document was &quot;discussion questions for films&quot; another was &quot;movie ministry.the incredibles.&quot; do this help?
try old short 8.3 names such as discussion questions for films becomes discfilm.doc (if it's a document.) and &quot;movie ministry.the incredibles.&quot; movieinc.doc bob
hi jeff, just wondering if you got an answer to this question. i seem to be having the same problem. i have data stored on a scandisk cruzer mini 256mb, i can see it there and it will not let me transfer it to a file. ugh!
i haven't had that problem, thank god. i moved some things off it, and it seems to be working fine. maybe it was fuller than it indicated. i have had that problem w/cd roms, however. never been able to solve it.
i have the same problem. unfortunatly, cruzer scan disk offers absolutely no support. did you ever get an answer to correcting the 'file cannot be created' ?
jeff, were you ever able to resolve the &quot; cannot create file&quot; issue. i have the same situation, and unfortunately cruzer scan disk offers no, none, completely void, help. if they have a tech site, i'll be damned if i can access it.
did you read what i did?
i wonder if it's the same issue i noted.
i have no idea what you did. my flash disk is 1 gb, ~~ properties show 650 mb used, 350 mb free. in attempting to add any file, i recieve the error &quot; the directory or file cannot be created&quot; i have win xp. obviously i was able to. initally write on the disk and can read the existing files i created on it. could i have accidently changed the file sysyem ? file system properties shows my &quot;c&quot; drive ntfs but the &quot;f&quot; drive (flash disk) is fat.
in this discussion i noted how to create the issue. hope that helps. bob
proffit mentionned it in passing in one of his other replies, but for some reason there is a limit to the no/size of files you can have in the root folder. create a new folder (if necessary delete a file to allow you to do this), then use this folder for you extra files. chrs nik
