here take a look at this motherboard  i don't get it, two pci slots are in between the two pci-e x16 slots. how will you be able to use the pci slots if you have 2 gpus in sli if the the sli bridge will obstruct the access/installation of the pci slots? or is it that this board does not require the sli bridge at all?
1. you lose the use of a pci slot for every pci express x16 card inserted. 2. worst case scenario is that if you go with 2 video cards in sli, you will be left with one pci slot and one pci-e x4 slot. this usually is not a problem for sli gamers who really only need pci for a good sound card. everything else, excpet maybe a dial-up modem, is integrated into the motherboard. if you need more expandability, use the pci-e x4 slot or external hardware via usb or firewire.
the board comes with a &quot;soft&quot; sli bridge cable that allows you to have a pci card between the vid cards.
when you use sli on the asus a8n sli premium, you don't lose pci slots.
definitely worth it if you must have the most sli bandwidth. any motherboard with an &quot;nvidia nforce4 sli&quot; chipset runs the two video cards in sli at 8x speeds. this is the a8n-sli premium motherboard. the &quot;nvidia nforce4 sli x16&quot; chipset motherboards can run both cards at x16 speeds. so the a8n32-sli deluxe can have twice the bandwidth in sli. whoah!!! with regard to losing expansion slots, you will lose one pci slot and one pci-e x1 slot on the a8n-sli premium if you add beefy video cards or wish to have decent video cooling. the way i see it, it's pretty much a wash between the two boards with respect to losing expansion slots. imo, pci slots are important, but not as critical as they used to be for the typical computer user because dual ethernet, hd controllers, sound, usb 2.0, firewire, and other capabilities are integrated into the motherboard. as always, every individual's needs are different. if you need many expansion slots, by all means go with the motherboard with the lesser chipset. they are both good.
1 for sound card and basically it, unless maybe some kind of fan control, raid adapter, etc. but most likely only need max of 2 pci slots.
and i read that it is pointless now since no game out there takes advantage of &quot;true dual x16 slots&quot;. dual x8 slots are fine now and provide excellent sli performance at the highest resolutions. i also realized that the 32 delux does not come with onboard firewire, which imo sucks. i know that you lose pci slots when doing sli, but the 32 delux is too expensive, you only have one pci slot after sli, and i am reading reviews that it is way too buggy right now.
you get no onboard firewire, and one pci slot for expansion.
personally, i can't justify the cost for my uses (not a high-end gamer). i usually don't consider purchasing such items until there are more models with the new chipset, prices drop, and bugs are worked out; however, i did notice that many of its bad reviews seem to come from consumers with less hardware experience. test labs have had success. it definitely is not a novice board.
$245 is outrageous for a motherboard. i'm not a gamer but i am curious. maybe in the future i'll try an sli setup. i have always wanted to build a super high-end system for some reason, but i am going to wait until prices drop and newer boards come out with the dual x16 slots. i read a customer review of the board where the guy had to tweak stuff in the bios to get it working properly; the customer specially mentioned it is not a novice board. i going to wait and let the competiton fight each other.
