but it will connect to a different isp. ??? ok, we have a strange situation. first, i am not a computer or networking expert. i have managed to hack together a home system consisting of; a linksys ea2700, nettalk voip unit, dvr for our cctv system, a printer, and a few wired complicators and a wireless laptop. all of this is through one of our isp's.. ( we have 2) now, we recently had a new complicator built. nothing fancy just win7 64bit. when i tried to connect it to the network, it wouldn't even acknowledge it's existence. so i connected it to the other, not in the network, isp and bingo, connected like a champ. obviously, there is a setting missing somewhere. my question is, how do i get the new complicator to join the network? i've fished this around a few other threads but no-one seems to have a clue, so cnet, you're up!
without adding drivers and maybe more, just win7 64bit does not get on a network anymore. as to the isp network connection test i would be guessing that would be some other issue but as presented with the slim details it's back to its maker to have them fix it. bob
this is a start, thanks. so, i need to find and install drivers? any idea which ones? i'm not too thrilled with the kids who built the computer. they seem to like going to the beach more than supporting their builds right now...
that the motherboard is a gigabyte ga=h61m-ds2h, if that helps...
but as presented it's just windows 7 64 bit and after we install that, we get to install the drivers or some things don't work. i can't tell from the post so far what's different in the two connections so i can't make a guess yet. but the story is typical so my first guess is just an incomplete windows setup. there are shops that build pcs and they get a few different types of clients. the un-fun one is the &quot;clean install&quot; client. it's not fun when they get after you for installing an app to turn on the wifi so you get to show them it doesn't work without it then you descend into the conversation about &quot;then you must have the wrong driver.&quot; well (and it's a deep one) that can lead to shops that toss on the barest of installs and leave the fine tuning to the end user. bob
to suspect that's the case here. these kids are sons of an old friend who are trying to get started in the computer biz. they know how to build gaming rigs, but i don't care about that... i've left numerous messages for them but have yet to receive a reply. i'd call their dad but i don't want to screw up an old friendship over this... sigh...
i didn't see how the two connections were different so i can't make another guess other than drivers. bob
it's certainly the most help i've found so far. for that i say thank you.
from another site: &quot;if you go into the nics properties and the advanced tab see if speed and duplex is set to auto. if it is set it to 10mb and full duplex and save the settings.&quot; did that and it worked... although i'm sure you were about to tell me that anyway, eh? haha... thanks eh.
i've only had to do that once in over a decade and it was a bad driver that fixed it later. out of the box, you should never have to do this but don't (and i never) argue with success. bob
