well, after 7 years my dell dimension 4300 hd finally up and died on me. even though this computer was old and slow, it was perfect for some functions i needed to conduct. i have several laptops for serious processing power. i want to resurrect this box and i was wondering what i could buy to replace the dead hd. it was a 40g ide drive. any suggestions are appreciated.
while i could safely write any 120gb drive of the old ide interface will do, small details such as the version of the bios, the exact version of your xp cd (?) will be needed if you want to go past 120gb.
but don't know for how much longer. i wouldn't try to go larger though. seagate and wd's should be fine and run under 40 bucks web priced.
for what i use this computer for increasing hd to 80g is fine, it doubles the size of the original hd. i figure i will spend some $$$ to attempt to get some of the data transferred. do you have a recommendation on manufacturer, model, etc?
here in the us i paid 60 bucks for a refurb 750gb sata hard disk. surely you can find an 80 for not much more at newegg.com or geeks.com as to paying for transfer of the data, why would i do that when i have a cable like  and free cloning software like g4u? sorry but this is an area i feel you diy or pay up. bob
i am located in the us as well, so finding a drive i think is a rather easy feat. the question had more to do with i did not know what i could replace the drive with and was looking for recommendations (size, type, manufacturer, etc.) can i replace an ide drive with a sata? as for transferring the data, if the original drive worked, then i would have no problem in transferring data myself. so, i figure if the data is recoverable, then i will happily pay to have the data recovered and transferred. thank you to everyone who has replied thus far. it has been very helpful.
find a drive that fits your need (or case, etc.) look at the user feedback. for the most part the ones that write &quot;i couldn't make it work&quot; are the ones to avoid. -&gt; in closing, currently the hard disk makers are just like getting gas from texaco, bp or hess. maybe there is someone that can write a convincing treatise on why one is preferred over the other. bob
