i purchased an emachine with a sempron 3000+ processor, 120 gb hard drive, double layer burning dvd, 512mb memory, nvidia geoforce 4 card, and i use a high-speed cable modem. the box advertising said it was designed for &quot;multimedia use.&quot; i recently went back to the store (walmart, by the way) and noticed a new emachine &quot;bundle&quot; on the shelf with an amd athlon 64 processor. it was designed for &quot;gaming.&quot; uh-oh. why wasn't the bundle with the athlon there before? i am enjoying my system, but my question (if i haven't bored you to tears yet) is: if i want to play games, for example, like half life 2, area 51, riddick, call of duty (games i've read about and would love to play) is my sempron 3000+ up to the task? can i get by with it? is there that much of a performance difference? several months from now, am i going to go to the store, look at a program's (be it a game or grafx tool) requirements and say, &quot;oh well, looks like i can't run this one on my machine.&quot; i've tried googling, but i'm somewhat perplexed with the information i've found concerning doubling clock speed (how?), cache, fsb, etc. the last computer i owned had a 386sx chip and i remember that i should have gotten a true 386 chip. did i inadvertantly do the same thing again? cognitive dissonance is running somewhat high. thanks for your help.
for example: i'm running an outdated amd athlon 1.2ghz with a fsb of 100mhz and a graphics card of 32mb so my system wouldn't even except half life 2 nor any of the other games you posted now the amd sempron is a pretty decent processor compared to an amd 64 the amd processor you're using only has about 400mhz of fsb and is only 1.80ghz my friend is running a 3.6ghz intel p4 and has an ati graphics card of 128mb which his half life 2 is running pretty damn sweet what i would recommend is taking back the one you own and gettin the newer bundle the graphics card you own won't except your nvidia geforce which only has about 64mb of memory plus a higher processor is recommend for a type of game like that you will probably still beable to play the game with your graphics card but it's gonna look nasty
to keep it simple, a sempron is a 32bit athlon processor with a new lable on it, still a good processor. a year ago a 3000+ athlon would have been consirded a fast gaming system. it will do a good job on games. yes a amd64 is a faster processor and the way things are going. if you can return the sempron and get the amd64 i would do it. the last computer i owned had a 386sx chip and i remember that i should have gotten a true 386 chip. you haven't had one since?? john
any cpu over 1ghz is capable of being a good gaming machine. however it all depends on your graphics card. your sempron 3000+ is an excellent processor and all it needs to game is a good graphics card. a nvidia geforce 6600gt would do the trick.
back in the day - windows 3.1 - a 20 meg hard drive (what am i going to do with all this space?!?) - wing commander was the closest thing to flying an actual x-wing - ibm microchannel architecture (another mistake of mine) - roland mt32 - sierra - space quest - king's quest. it was great. and then, i began having trouble getting &quot;newer&quot; programs to run (even more so). upgrades ($money$), patches, install errors, compatibility issues, etc. i used computers on the outside (work, school, library), but didn't purchase any newer models. i got by for a long while, but it became increasingly clear, and i grudgingly accept the fact - one simply has to have a computer today, in much the same way we have cars or phones - it's inescapable. i was still using my walkman cassette player a short while ago until my friend told me to &quot;wake up and smell the 90s.&quot; (yes, he knows its 2005, but that's his oddball humor at work). it's a bummer that computers can't be more like consoles, where i can pull any game off the shelf, bring it home, and simply play it - no problema. but i do use my computer for graphics/art, emails, research, etc. as well. well, that's the story (and i'm stickin' to it). thanks everyone, for your help.
you will increase performance with overclocking, but its up to you. all you need is a decent agp/pci-express video card and probally 768mb ram.
