a couple of weeks ago, i was blissfully using my computer, minding my own business, when the screen flickered and dimmed as it switched over to battery power. i'd had problems with a/c adapters with other computers in the past, so i assumed it was a short in the wire. moving the cord around a little briefly got it back on a/c power, but even that quickly stopped working and i could see the battery was draining. (i hardly ever use the battery, so i guess it's no surprise.) i had enough time to save many large directories to an external hard drive before i shut down. i called dell to order a new adapter, but they told me they no longer stocked the model i needed as my laptop is one and a half years old (!!!), but they could send me a &quot;travel&quot; adapter for more money. i agreed. but when i received the travel adapter the next day and tried it out, i discovered my computer was running very slowly and the adapter was getting extremely hot. i returned the travel adapter to dell and found the regular adapter on ebay listed as new. my computer ran fine with the new adapter for several days, then switched over to battery again with no warning. this time moving the cord had no effect, and the battery drained even faster then before. i quickly shut down all my programs and turned off the computer just before it drained completely. so, perhaps i got a faulty adapter off ebay, but now i'm wondering if my problem is really the battery. i'm reluctant to try returning the adapter only to get a new one from ebay, plug anything in and turn it on, only to have something fry because the problem was elsewhere. any advice on what i should try next?p
the port in which you plug your cord has probably become loose over the year. since your laptop is out-of-warranty, you could try resoldering it yourself (really cheap), finding an electronics shop to do it for you (reasonably cheap), or finding a laptop repair shop (expensive). if you've got any soldering skills, open that puppy up and warm up your cold soldering tool!
i agree with ramarc. it sounds like a broken adapter socket. i have had this problem in the past and after opening the case (which is a big pain for such a small repair)and resoldering,i cut the adapter cord about four inches from the end and rejoined with a standard small connector. instead of unpluging from the notenook i now undo the connector and leave the fourinch pigtail in the socket. i know this approach offends those with a perchant for tidieness but i rate utility over tidieness. regards stewawrt
