i went to fry's electronics today and bought a gateway fx6801-01 desktop computer. i got it home and it would not boot up. i took it back to fry's and they opened it up and looked inside. this is what that found. no cpu! and the 9 megs of memory had been exchanged for 3 megs of memory. fry's would not exchange it. arrrgghh!!
was this an open box unit? there's little i can offer here (nothing really) except to make sure you leave the store with what you think you bought. if you want to do this right, call the police department to arrange to make a report of the theft so you get it all done (just the facts, man) on a police report. then off to small claims court. bob
it was a unopened box with the gateway tape still on it. i am thinking someone at gateway is yanking cpu's and memory.
you can't know who did it but the path to setting it right is not to post about it all over the internet (unless that's just to vent.) this is a simple issue of theft. if the store won't take the return then it's again a simple issue of theft and you make the police report and proceed to small claims. a lot of trouble but i hope that your goals are to get what you paid for. sometimes i find folk just want to rant. bob
its now on your shoulders to proceed with a police report as already mentioned. to contact the pr person or management and register a complaint at fry's. send a registered letter with a copy of police report to main/corp. office of fry's. you mean business and this not something you did but outside of your hands. if no response or ineffective then proceed to small claims court, with all your *paperwork* and hope for the best. you can contact gateway also, to see if they can resolve the matter. if gateway send units out with possible h/w lacking or its part of a pattern that they may have arrived at. again, send copies of your police report and show your in earnest to resolve this. of course, if this was paid for by cc, deny any funds be released as again enter this in writing and foward police copies, etc.. tada -----willy
call now, not tomorrow to get it taken off. bob
