i'm having some problems with my computer and was wondering if any of you out there may know what is causing my problem so i know whether or not to bother fixing it. so basically my computer crashes while i am playing world of warcraft. the screen freezes up on and the last second of sound at the time of the freeze repeats over and over like a machine gun or something. i thought perhaps that it was my vide card seeing as how it was a 2 plus year old radeon 9600 pro, but i went out and bought a new geforce 6200 and i am still having the above mentioned problem. the wierd thing is that my computer only seems to freeze while playing warcraft, though i havent tried any other games. my system specs are amd athlon xp 2800+ 2.08 ghz 1.50ghz ram geforce 6200 thanks for help in advance and if you have any questions i'll answer them as fast as i can! thanks again!
is this computer overclocked?? .... download this software and tell me your temprature (  ) i think its because of your high temprature..so this software will give your temprature at idle....and for load download this program (  ) and also run the speedfan because prime95 will give your pc a 100% load. and now post your idle as well as your load temp..bye
i'll be able to play it for maybe 2 hours and then it'll quit (p4 3.6ghz, x1900 ati). i had to decrease the resolution. and darkstar has an option to turn off shadows, which greatly increased performance. in the support forum for the game they told me to put the program darkstar.exe in the the exceptions list turning off dep or wep, or something like that. if after decreasing resolution and reinstalling directx still the same thing happens, its probably something you're just going to have to live with with that game. darkstar one always quits on me.
i had an athlon xp 3200+. i had the same problem when running even simple games, i ran some tests on it and found that the cpu was getting very hot. upon further research i found that this whole line of cpu's runs notoriously hot. i'd recommend downloading a program to check your temp. if its too hot, try buying some better thermal grease (i use arctic silver.) apply that to your athlon and give it a try. i had to do it a couple times to get the right amount, too much = too hot, too little = too hot. that should fix the problem, your comp is doing exactly what mine did.
so i installed the two programs you mentioned and at idle my temp seems to be around 20 c and when i turn on prime 95 my temperture quickly climbs to over 50 c and a little fire icon appears...i assume this is a bad thing. so i figure i will try what was suggested by kestrel731 and go and buy some thermal grease to see if it helps any. please feel free to post any other suggestions or tips, and thank you very much so far. i'll update my status when i try the thermal grease. thanks again.
tried using some arctic silver and it seems to be working good. temp is staying fairly low, so far so good! thanks everyone for the help!
