hello, i have a netgear wpn824 router with two pcs hardwired and a laptop (all xp home) and pocket pc on wireless. i own a web design company, and i am online all day every day. all other websites that i have browsed work fine. (travel sites included) my problem is that i can get to the expedia.com website, but cannot actually perform a search for a flight or a hotel or anything. i could before i installed the router. this is frustrating, because i use expedia a lot, and i need to see the site. the site just hangs in my browser, or i get page cannot be displayed.... i called netgear customer support three times, and each time they had me reduce the mtu size on the router settings. i have done as they asked. the current setting for the mtu is 1250. i still cannot get expedia to work. does anyone know how i can adjust this to make it work? or if not, please do not recommend linksys, but what else? is there a brand that anyone would suggest i try? this is frustrating. thank you
but then again i would scan the machine with ewido and post what bhos are installed. what's a bho? please ask google.com bob ps. just funning you about linksys.
netgear has a problem with microsoft sites. had the same problem with msn.game.zone with same useless netgear suggestions. you may get it to work but it will intermitantly drop your connection, not good for playing games with others. finally gave up and got a d-link which works fine.
that is a sign of the gods. they might really like you. expedia can ruin your trip , even if they didnt before. expedia is in listed the top ripoff link at the bad business bureau (  ) and has two &quot;dedicated&quot; websites due to poor customer support and lies:  and  kind regards
what do you mean by microsoft site? do you mean asp pages and such? d-link...ok might give it a try. hope it has a better range than this netgear too. this one boasts 500 feet. baloney. not even 50. crap all the way around. but, i can see all of my websites, which my linksys would not, depending on the day of the week and the weather outside, and what i had for dinner last night. one step forward...two steps back. thanks for the input, both of you. i will just keep buying routers until i find one with no behavior issues. cheers!
but, expedia's horrible service has kindly provided me with a $200 coupon for our next flight purchase. this to make up for *&(#*#*&ing our last trip up. so i have to use them to get my $200. otherwise, i would be buying direct from iceland air. great people, decent food, nice little stop-over to strech the legs and grab a cig then off to destination. thanks for posting!
