i have had tv wonder card for many years and i enjoy having tv and a dvr capability on my workstation and laptop. now here is the problem: next year most over the air signals are going silent. what i want to buy is anew tv tuner appliance that will take the cable tv cable and decode the digital channels and also decode and show the hdtv channels. this appliance should be usb as the interface to the computers. is there anything out there right now that does this? is there going to be ?? thanks
&quot;includes portable atsc digital terrestrial antenna for use up to 10 miles from an atsc transmitter&quot; since ota standard def tv is going to be dead soon, look at something like this hauppauge unit at  and others from both makers. some may have you install something called an ir blaster to control the cable box. bob
hey -- spoke with ati, they dont have anything to offer. again the problem is that im *not* trying to watch over-the-air because that will be dead real soon. i'm trying to use the cable signal that is already coming into my house. ati guy said that the problem is that the cable companies encode their signals so tht only their boxes can decode, forcing me to rent their large boxes for $150/yr. im looking for a better solution.
there are ati and hauppaugge offerings but maybe you thought you could record in hd. i'm going to decline explaining that one since it's been done (a few many times.) &quot;i'm trying to use the cable signal that is already coming into my house.&quot; i can do that today since they are not discontinuing the old rf channels. maybe there is some confusion there? bob
that what i hear from the cable company -- only digital content coming over the cable next year. do you hear anything differently? what i understand is that the program is to redeem the ota bandwidth and force most ota tv stations off the air; at any rate, the number of stations one could receive is a very few whilst the number of cable channels is over 100 with all the specialty channels, etc. ota is dead which is why the feds are paying the stations so much to go dark.
comcast has made no attempt to tell me i need 3 boxes. bob
the fcc isn't paying anyone. they are freeing up the bandwidth for other uses, do your homework. the &quot;box&quot; you want does not exist. you either get the hdtv ota usb device or nothing. noting the usb device will also tune the standard cable channels (i've done this), but not the hd or specialty content. for that you need the evil cable box. it's just the way it is. i've been wiating for a high end graphics card with either dvi or hdmi input . i'm still waiting.
thanks for all the responses. . . having reread the fine print, what happens feb, 2009 is analog broadcasting ceases but digital over-the-air will continue. but only channels from 2-36 will be allowed. the fcc is going to auction off the recovered spectrum [from channel 37 upward] [wtih the proceeds from the auction subsidizing broadcasters to convert to digital broadcasting]. we can all get $40 coupons to buy digital conversion boxes to change over-the-air digital into analog to feed the older tv sets. so my goal remains -- i want a device about the size of a deck of cards or thereabouts that will convert my cable company's digital [and hd] signals to feed to my computer -- desktop or laptop. and i havent seen such a device on the market either. incidently, the motorola converter i get from the cable co has a firewire output port that the cable guys block though i have seen postings about how to hack the cable boxes.
i can't count how many times people confuse over the air changes and think it applies to cable. bob
usb hd tuners on the market and more mfrs are coming out with hd versions of their pci and usb2 tuners. just google usb hd. be aware that hd is a performance hog. make sure you can return it if not satisfied. wonder if you had great success with your sd tuner. the delay in channel switching always bothered me. also look into slingbox pro. many, many reviewers are very happy with it.
