hello everyone, if their is anyone out there that knows alot about hard drives- i like some help. i put together a computer with a asus p5lde-deluxe board, everything is great. all connections cool -execpt for one problem-. bought a new 320g western digital (sata 2) drive and had an existing western digital 250g (sata 1) drive. i formatted the new sata 2 drive s boot drive- the old sata 1 drive was already formated. though they both show up in bios i cant see the sata 1(old drive) in -my computer-. tried disk manager utility in windows and the w.d data lifeguard program- thought with sata all drives where compatable. i mean sata 1 and sata 2, do i have to step down the sata 2 drive to sata 1 spec. with jumper? cant figure it out. should be no need for slave or master on sata, right? hope someone can point me in right direction. thanks for the help.
drives don't show in windows until they are partitioned and even then i need to format them. your post is void of the details for me to comment further. bob
more infomation: i had one drive, my original drive(sata 1), bought second drive(sata 2)used on asus p5ld2 mother board. can a sata 1 drive work with a sata 2 drive? both show up as bootable but the sata 2 drive, is the primary. i want to be able to log into old drive to copy files or use seperately. i can format it as storage drive- but lose all info- i want to copy it's files first. was thinking maybe i can use windows disk to repair the partion (or fix windows) maybe that might allow it to show in -my computer -in windows and allow me to use it. the sata 1 drive shows up on everything- but my computer in windows- and in disk management there is no drive letter. in sata config. on the board, i have the 320g(sata2)as the primary drive- plug 1 (the red one) and the original drive the sata 1 drive is on the slave sata plug 3 (the black one)- this is designation on the asus motherboard sata plug 1+2 master and sata plug 3+4 slave. hope this will help you more. thanks.
absolutely. but your issues appear to be related to nothing in your first post. no mention that the drive was used in some other system so i wouldn't note that this is often how people learn about backing up what they can't lose. look up zero assumption recovery and i wish you luck, bob
thanks to the person who has taken effort to reply- thanks bob. it maybe hard to understand, but i did what i was trying to do- and learned more about drives. sata controllers work independantly- i was pretty sure. there was no reason why my old formatted drive should not show up. but only my new drive that had been formatted showed. i just fooled with the windows cd and loaded some of the drivers from the cd. and low and behold this drive is now reconized in my computer. i put both on the sata master inputs(the red ones)- i did this before so i think the drivers on the windows cd helped the windows install reconize the drive. the bios has always reconised it (drive that wasnt seen in windows). now if i could just find a good program or find a way to transfer files- but now that i think. datalifeguard will probly work. thanks, bye.
not out of the woods yet- drive is showing, but cant access my user folder on drive. says that i dont have permissions. is there a procedure or settings i can adjust to allow me to acess the old sata 1 drive main folder and files. thanks.
just type xp take ownership into google.com and pick the solution you like. bob
ok i'll give the google search a try- ran into this problem before,but just formatted- dont want to lose files this time. thanks again.
thanks alot man- you the man. you really help me. cant figure out how i got the drive to be reconized. my first motherboard (before this new one that i used old drive in)stopped working. and i found two viruses on old drive, but only after it was reconized. do you think the windows cd had something to do with it, when i reinstalled the drivers( but it was already showing in bios, and disk manager- just not in my computer?, and no hardware issues in device manager? any way this is what i knew could happen with these drives, and we worked it out. so thanks again for the info bob- the last bit totally helped. i'ld like to know what you think allowed the drive to be reconized, or was it a quirky thing. thanks
sorry forgot to ask this, will try it. but i should have no problems no doing a simply drag and drop from one drive to the next to transfer files- this could however spead a virus right.
i'm sure you've read stories where we uninstall and reinstall software and it works the second time. i can't explain it. bob
