i have a hp laserjet 1100a that used to be connected through a standard parallel port, and of which both printing and scanning functions worked properly. last year, i had to purchase a new computer (windows xp pro included). since it has no parallel ports and installing a parallel port pci card did not work, i connected the printer through a parallel-to-usb cable adapter. the printer works perfectly as a standard printer. however, when i install the scanning software from the cd, i am prompted for a physical parallel (lptx) port, which of course makes no sense for my environment. and while windows xp detects the scanner as a &quot;parallel&quot; peripheral, i have no driver to configure it and make it operational. so my question is: is there an existing driver that supports such a parallel-to-usb connection for the scanner module? if so, where can i get it? thanks in advance for any helpful information, jeff
this is why older devices get abandoned due to old age and connectivity to include s/w issues. i don't see why the lpt/pci parallel port card didn't work, it should have. however, answer lpt1 for the parallel port question or check in &quot;device manager&quot; what lptx get listed. you also lack details of your system, maybe there is a lpt port available and/or some bios setting to be done. otherwise, you've gone as far as the legacy device allows with its dated drivers and s/w. the real fix is to replace that device with supported usb connect. tada -----willy
&quot;installing a parallel port pci card did not work&quot; they work for me on xp just fine. but many don't know to dive into the cards settings to change the address to the old lp1 standard addresses and claim it fails. this knowledge is fading so research what those addresses are. (it's partly because i want you to fish for the answers since it will help you understand the problem in depth.) here's the card i used last time -&gt;  &quot;configurable for standard isa parallel port addresses (0278 and 0378) for compatibility&quot; that's the ticket. bob
