is it possible for a hard drive to overheat and cause lock-ups? i've put fans on everything else that could overheat and im still having heat problems.
i see some try everything but the cover off. &quot;i have fans.&quot; -&gt; also, try my usual scans of housecall and ewido. cheers, bob
how are you capturing or measuring thet 'overheat' info ??? vapcmd
i had taken the cover off after and its stopped. i'm not sure if its the hard drives that are overheating, i just locked it up, took off the case and felt everything. cpu, video card, and chipset were all nice and cool while the hard drives were burning hot.
with the side off/open....does it still overheat ? what case do you have ? make and model # how many case fans do you have ...at the case front, the case back ? vapcmd
it stopped freezing and its some 10 year old case i fished out of my basement. besides all i want to know is if it's possible for a hard drive to overheat and cause lock-ups.
yes....definitely possible for the hdd as well as other components to overheat and cause the pc to lockup. i thought you were interested in indentifying the cause and finding a way to eliminate the heat other than leaving the case open.
i plan on getting a new case and one of those hard drive cooling things to put in it. i just needed to know if it was possible.
you won't need any special hard drive cooling if you buy a well designed case with good airflow over the hard disk drives. with the case below which includes a 400 watt ps, i'd probably add a 120mm fan in the front which would ensure cool outside air coming in from the front over the hard drives.  enermax pandora ca3030-bs black/silver 0.6mm secc atx mid tower computer case power up 400w 24pin power supply - retail $54.00 plus shipping model #: ca3030-bs item #: n82e16811124113 with this case outside
as you revealed elsewhere... sorry but you've likely toasted your machine.
i thought i had good air flow but after a failure i decided to record the hdd temperature. 49c (120f). way too hot. ended up installing a cooling fan and the temperature dropped to 33c. i wrote an article about my experience. see  can supply cheap temperature recorders if anyone needs one.
speedfan it is freeware.  this will tell you what your temperatures are. i'd advise that you not use the &quot;clock&quot; feature unless you know precisely what your doing. here are two hard drive cooler to consider should you need them.
