which is your favorite hard drive brand and why? personally i am a avid fan and user of wd so that makes it my favorite brand. to me, it is reliable and stable. pricing wise is reasonable.
well i always shop for my computer needs on newegg. and when it comes time for me to get a hard drive i look at the reviews/storage capacity/price and see what i can get for the best bang for my buck. i always try to stick to wd and seagate though. right now i've been using seagate and i haven't had any problems.
i've been using western digital. it's reliable and the products i'm using are surpassing my expectations.
i buy the one that gives me the best bangs for the bucks. so far..no regret.
today they all are pretty reliable and for me it boils down to cost. realiablity is really just a matter of luck and if you are unlucky no matter which brand you choose could end up being flaky. but i don't care, hard drive are cheap and as long as i got my data backed up, i have no worries. just my 2 cents. cheers!
i have been useing seagate's since - well - so long cant remember - mid 80's, ''in the begining...'' lol the wd's used to be a joke but i 'think' seagate bought them so by now they should be up to seagate quality.
first choice is always wd, great reliability, performance and longevity at very good prices. fallback choices, hitachi and samsung for 2.5&quot; drives and seagate for 3.5&quot; but only when i can't source a wd.
more to the point seagate with 5 year warranty. i've been using these drives for a long time. to get the 5 year warranty one has to purchase enterprise class drives or retail box drives that are labeled &quot;5 year warranty.&quot; seagate also sells drives with 1 and 3 year warranties, mostly into the oem and external markets. maxtor is now owned by seagate. still only carries a 3 year warranty on retail packaging..
seagate bought maxtor. western digital is still their own company. their product has improved radically in the last several years, especially with high-performance drives like the raptor family.
getting too old - sorry wd.. lol i used to love hearing when a drive went down and was maxtor. made a lot of money installing new seagates. good ol' error 1701.
in the last 6 years, i've had two hitachi, two wd, and two samsung drives die on me. in their defense, the wd and samsung drives were over 60 degrees c in a poorly-ventilated case, which is beyond the rated temperature, but i'm placing my bets on my two fairly new seagate drives for now. i have yet to see a recent seagate/maxtor drive die. i think the last bad seagate i saw was an 80 mb 5.25&quot;. (yes, megabyte).
you are dateing us - i bought the newest, fastest available to increase from 10mb to 20mb
for the past several years i have used nothing but seagate cheetah 15k saci or sas drives. they have a five year warantee. note - there are very few high density 15k drives out their
like others, i preferred western digital too. i feel that the pricing is reasonable for its stability, reliability, storage space and performance. moreover i am a avid user of wd products.
hands down my answer is hitachi. i spend the bit higher amount, but in all my computers and all the operatings systems, the ones that live on are hitachi. wd and all the others die on me in around 1 year or just past it. in fact the last brand new computer i had built one year ago had a wd and in one day it gave me a failure notice! i had the builder purchase a hitachi and it is still going!
recently i bought a new wd hard drive, the one with the sas interface and it never disappointed. the wd s25 delivers ultra-high performance with its 3 gb/s and 6 gb/s sas interfaces and a sustained sequential data rate of 128 mb/sec. in addition to all the speed required to service any enterprise need, the wd s25 also provides a 1.6 m hour mtbf rating. i must say i'm impressed.
i've been building computers for myself and for friends for a dozen years now. i've used practically every brand of hard drive out there. the only brand that has a 100% survival rating is samsung. i've got several that are 11 years old and still going strong. maybe the new wd drives are better, but my failure rate with them used to be quite high. nowadays samsung is the only brand i'll put in the computers i build. i have one of the new samsung 1 tb drives in my newest computer and it is awesome!
in a few more that 20 years, i have experienced two harddrive failures. both of these were western digital caviar drives. one drive was on a new computer still under warranty and was replaced by the manufacturer. the other was an older drive, of unknown history, salvaged from a discarded computer. that ran for several months after being installed in a pieced together computer before failing. i have heard similar storied from friends concerning wd drives and have not heard such stories concerning seagate drives. it is for these reasons that i prefer seagate if that option is available.
i would have to agree with this statement. as long as you stick to the major brands, it is a matter of luck of the pick from the assembly line. one extra step i sometimes do is google the model number to see if there is a larger than normal amount of complaints for a particular model, so i don't get stuck with a device that has a design flaw.
i have a pc 3 years old in september. acer that came with an hatachi 500gb, i added the first week of ownership a western digital and 3 years and two months later the western digital failed. even for a back up drive with very little on it i was rather disappointed. it got pretty hot. ive unplugged it and once it cooled down it ran fine. i put a fan right in front of the hard drive in the case and still shut down every 3 days. so perhaps western digital sold me a fluke of a lemon? oh, the warrenty expired on the 3 year mark. this p,o,s died exactly 2 months later.
i've had the best experience with seagate. i've had several wds to fail, but the seagates i've worked with seem to hold up better.
