my daughter is getting married this dec 2006 in manila, philippines. i'm planning to send my hp laptop model z4610 with a built in wi-fi connection and would like to get an 802.11 webcam so they can take the ceremony live. is it possible to watch the wedding on my home pc using the laptop and webcam that they have, or advice what other gadgets i need in order to watch it live and possibly record it on dvd. my home pc has a dvd recorder. i also would like to broadcast live or send a message using my pc and webcam and microphone to her during the wedding reception. any help and assistance you can provide will be appreciated. thanks edbaesa@aol.com
assuming a broadband internet connection is available, a cheaper alternative would be a usb web cam attached to the laptop. a mid-range logitech or creative cam would give you 320x240 res at 15fps. you can use the software provided to setup a video chat or use msn messenger or other im clients. by going with the usb attached web cam, you only have to worry about getting one wireless connection working and you can easily test the chat before hand without having to fiddle with ip addresses.
thanks for the response and advice. i want a full motion, is this webcam or the 15 fps considered a full motion already, and does this have audio also? please advice. thank you.
expect the delay/lagging or broken video transmission.. the internet connection is not that fast... beside, that small camera will only stationary on the table, and the lense are not wide enough to capture the scene (it only focus on small area) if someone going to hold the laptop and the camera.. then movement is going to be an issue.. if you put the camera high above, on the ceiling for example (think of it as a security camera) then you will see a distorted image.. well, it just a thought..
what if i use a security camera and mount in a central area of the reception.
same type of camera we are talking... but, the security camera thing that i mentioned is only an example of location.. unless you have a very fast connection, then you will have to deal with time delay... (a few second or so) any web cam (even regular video camera, provided that you have a video input/output jack in your pc) and msn, yahoo or other instant messages software can be use ... why don't you try to use it now and start video chat with your friend or family ..
i'll try your suggestion using the current video cam or webcam that we have. many thanks.
this is going to be your real limitation. if they have dsl you can consider it. if the internet is done by dial-up, you are better off recording the event. skype video is quite good these days if the link at both ends is good (better than 56k). the ip security camera was a good suggestion. ethernet can go 100 meters. is the ac power in the phillipines the same as the usa? dlink has some inexpensive security cameras. and they usually come with software to record the events on a remote pc. skrall
the webcams i mentioned will give you reasonably smooth video and full audio for you to enjoy the ceremony 'live'. going up to 30fps will increase your bandwidth and you might wind up with dropouts/stutters. the web cam should be close to the priest/officiator. consider an external mic to ensure you get decent sound. (a clip-on mic for the priest/officiator would be great.) i assume the ceremony will be also be taped on a real camcorder since it will be far better than anything from a web cam.
i'm positive that the venue's internet connection is not dial up or better than 56k. the standard voltage in the philippines is 220v but there are adapters available locally so it's not a problem. can you give me an advice on the security camera set up based on how i want the event to be broadcasted. the camera that i was thinking is the one with it's own ip address so other people can log in and view it also. do you think this is possible for multiple viewers? please advice. thank you.
