i recently got a new computer (moving up from me to xp). on the old computer i had some applications that loaded up fine. yet, on the xp computer i get an error banner that says, &quot;16 bit windows subsystem&quot; the body of the error window says, &quot;c:\windows\system32\autoexec.nt. the system file is not suitable for running ms-dos and microsoft windows applications. choose 'close' to terminate the application.&quot; at the bottom are two buttons - close and ignore (nothing happens with ignore). both of these programs worked fine in the earlier version. i tried the &quot;compatibility&quot; function with no luck. i tried loading it without the xp 2 patch, and again after. these are simple apps that use a setup program. i'm out of ideas...anybody else?
read  in closing, i'm seeing this as a result of spyware. bob
bob, thank you. i think you found the answer that no one else could. thanks again. - tony
here is the link. i got it just today off some forums. and it works too.  just download the xp fix and it will work.
you tossed the 2k nt file when you uninstalled something. goto windows/repair and find it. then copy and paste into windows/system32. this worked for me. also if you don't feel comfortable then read &quot;soolshock&quot;'s response. there is an url that will allow a simple download that will replace the nt file and put it back..
i did what you said and it worked really well! the dumb people at sony told me to perform a system restore. thank you soooooo much. i could kiss you. could, but i'm not. dk
thanks for your post-i am a true novice and searched for info on this problem. the link you cited was all i needed.
i received this error trying to install microsoft visual c++ 6.0 in xp and the xp fix worked! thank you, i never would have thought of that or have known where to download it from!
there is an xp fix on a website visualtour. the link is  click on xpfix.exe then click on run/open and a message will pop up click ok on that message.
please complete your post by telling what causes this issue.
i am having the same problem and have recently downloaded spyware doctor. that scanned my computer and got rid of all the infections. yet i still cannot access any programs. can anyone help?
this post fixed my 16 bit error message that i kept getting - i did a google search on &quot;16 bit error&quot; as a prayer to just what in the heck that was...and it came to your posting - problem solved - thanks brotha man.... peace...
we have found that there are two reasons for this; 1. running antispyware programs sometimes removes these files autoexec.nt, ntconfig.nt and command.com 2. upgrading to xp sp2 - we are not sure why this knocks out these files but it does... the fix is to replace these three files as stated in a microsoft kb article:  you can also download a quick fix from here that does the trick. you will need your xp cd ready for either way.  thanks, bruce bidgood
16 bit windows subsystem error in xp? i purchased a new computer last fall with xp installed. all applications that came pre-loaded and the once i loaded worked fine until 3 days ago. then, out of the blue i get an error banner that says, &quot;16 bit windows subsystem&quot; the body of the error window says, &quot;c:\windows\system32\autoexec.nt. the system file is not suitable for running ms-dos and microsoft windows applications. choose 'close' to terminate the application.&quot; at the bottom are two buttons - close and ignore (nothing happens with ignore). i tried the &quot;compatibility&quot; function with no luck. i must have changed something, which i do from time ti time, that may have something to do with it but suddenly it will refuse to recognize older programs. the once in question, i believe, are the 16 bit based once and i have a few of those. could anyone help me with this please, it is very vital for me because i use some of the old graphic programs, card games, etc, etc. any help will be much apreciated. sincerely, helen
since the solution is noted in this discussion, can you reveal if you used it? or were you expect another post of the answer? just asking. bob
if you manage to find out how to resolve that problem i would certainly like to know as im having the same problem myself.
since the solution is noted in this discussion, can you reveal if you used it? or were you expect another post of the answer? just asking. bob
just wanted to say thanks..i went to your suggested site and did the quick and easy download...it solved all my problems...thanks so much. toothpick1977
&quot;c:\windows\system32\autoexec.nt. the system file is not suitable for running ms-dos and microsoft windows applications. choose 'close' to terminate the application.&quot; i have a emachine t2542 with xp windows operating system. need help thank you
the answer is in this discussion. i'm unsure if you read the answer or just didn't understand it. bob
soolshock, from the other side of the world, thanks for your tip. first, i lost 2 working days fixing for &quot;hotoffers&quot; spy-ware. after finally fixed the spyware problems using spydoctor, adaware & hijackthis, this &quot;autoexec.nt&quot; problem occurred. i think it was caused by one of the anti-spyware accidentally removing it. fortunately, your tip fixed it. thanks for suggesting the link. i could've used the microsoft's suggested solution (  ), but being such a novice user, i am sure i would've done more damage than repaired it. madcnet java - indonesia
go to the c:\windows\repair folder copy autoexec.nt to the c:\windows\system32 folder that should fix your problem. if not go to this link  hopes this fixes your problem
could someone pleeeease help. my computer keeps coming up with the box 16 bit subsystems error c:\windows\systems32\autoexec.nt two boxes either to cancel or ignore. neither work this system file is not suitable for running ms.dos and microsoft windows applications. choose close to terminate the application. can someone tell me how to be rid of this and recitfy the situation.
