5 yrs ago i took the &quot;big plundge&quot; and dropped a bundle of cash on the big party....most of wich i don't remember (funny how everyone buys you cocktails on the day you tied the knot?). anyways....i absolutly refused to fork out 2,000 + for a wedding book/album/portfolio (hint...if the photographer uses the word &quot;portfolio&quot; instead of photo album drop him or her like a bad habit...they are way overpriced...what can i say...i have never been married before). one for us, one for the rents and one for the inlaws..i did however get a proof book of all the pictures that were taken at the &quot;big event&quot; now with the holidays right around the corer i'm thinking i just might try and put our blessed pictoral wedding memories together myself and pawn them off as eloborate x-mass gifts (i know..killing 2 birds with 1 stone) i have done some research but i am looking for some advice. i have scanned the photos in the past (no imbedded labels or anything to worry about there) simply to place 8 x 10s around the house. currently i'm using a canoscan 650u scanner and a hp 880c deskjet printer, and have used high end kodak glossy printer paper. at first the prints seemed fine, but after 5 years on the walls they have faded dramatically. i know its due to the outdated printer i am using and the low scannig capabilities (600 x 1200). i'd hate to have the inlaws open their &quot;wedding portfolio&quot; in 5 years expecting to relive their fond memories of their daughter's big day and see nothing but washed out images, not to memntion it might cost me some cash at will reading time. at first i was thinking of taking the proof photos to a professional photo processing place to make my life easier, but they wont touch them without a release from the photographer (you've got to be kidding me????) so now i am forced to do it myslef. i am planning on buying a multifunction photo printer/scanner and i have narrowed it down to either a cannon mp800 or an epson rx620. they are both the same price ($300) and seem very similar. cnet rates the cannon as marginally better (based on the mp760)and has higher output resolution, but the store salesman is pushing epson because it has 6 ink cartridges versus canon's 5 (2 blacks. any advice? also, when scanning the original photos should i simply crank up the scannig resolution and printing resolution for the best possible output?..thanks anyone know where i can get &quot;wedding portfolios&quot; a.k.a. leather bound wedding albums cheap?? my god..they run $400 bucks a piece. thanks
the canons are the best printer on the market right now and they print lab quality photos. they are both essiantially 3 color photo printers. the mp800 has two blacks, one black is pigment and is used for text. the other black is used for photos and deepens the contrast a bit. the other three colors yellow, magneta and cyan are standard. the epson is really a 3 color printer with photo cyan and photo magenta thrown in and a black for text. it doesn't praticular help much and 6 ink printers are more hype then reality. the only ''real'' improvement over 5 or 6 ink would be to get a ip8500 or i9900 which both have 8 color systems but they are pricey and not multifunction. they do give you that extra quality but not much above the mp800. also the mp800 has the new chromalife100 which when stored in a acid free photo album won't fade for 100 years. under glass they won't fade for 30 years. acid free wedding album:  scan at least 300-600 dpi, try the scanning calculator, {  } save the pictures in uncompressed format, tiff {tagged image file format} is recommended. print the pictures at the highest quality setting, you might want to try qimage. it is said to bring out some details that canon's software lacks. it's definitly for power users and tweakers so be fore warned. the canon software is very good and simpler to use but qimage is sworn by professionals. the canon mp800 is cheaper on ink then the epson. the epsons waste ink on cleaning cycles and other non-sense. if you buy the canon mp800 get: 1. canon photo paper pro 2. canon glossy plus paper 3. kirkland glossy paper the canon paper can be bought anywhere the kirkland paper is sold here:  the kirkland is the affordable choice and is excellent. a bonus feature with the mp800 is that cd printing can be enabled:  ......
i appreciate your advice.... you certainly sound like you know what you are talking about and i plan on purchasing the canon. i posted the same question in the digital camera forum and got &quot;linched&quot; by 3 or 4 different people telling me i can't scan and print my own photos...must be professional photographers. the album link you sent me is close to what i'm looking for, but i was hoping to get the kind of album that contains the matted type pages with different size openings...4 x 6, 5 x 7, 8 x 10 in square, round and oval shapes. i might just have to suck it up and pay for the renaissance model. i was hoping to find something similar but not as &quot;high end&quot;. i'm pretty sure i already know the answer to this one, i just want to be sure.......i am hoping to simply insert a 4 x 6, 5 x 7, or 8 x 10 high end photo quality paper (most likely canon..thanks for the advice) into the printer and print a borderless image. right now with my hp deskjet i have to print on 8.5 x 11 and trim manually. i asume the canon can do this? also thanks for the link to the scanning tips.... seems a little chinese to me...i'll have to do more research on the terms, meanings....etc. to completly understand what the site is trying to tell me
there is no 8 x 10 photopaper that i have seen for a inkjet, most people just use 8.5 x 11 borderless, {it's a little bit bigger isn't that good ? }or print a 8 x 10 on 8.5 x 11 and cut the white borders off {or just leave them on if you have a full page photo album } with 8.5 x 11 being so close to 8 x 10 it's probably not worth it to the printer makers to make a special 8 x 10 paper. even my old photo albums were 8.5 x 11 so they fit perfectly.
sorry should clarify that canon doesn't make any 8 x 10 but epson does. not sure how well epson paper would work in a canon. i've always bought canon when it's on sale or kirkland paper. i've also experimented with other more professional paper and oddly they did not have 8 x 10 paper.
