hey bob, yeah i have got it down to the cpu/hsf, power supply unit(psu), motherboard and the speaker, but still no beep from the speaker. dont know what to do next. thanks for the help. paul
at this point, the possible bad parts in order of cost are: 1. speaker. 2. psu. 3. motherboard. 4. cpu/hsf. there is a simple part on the motherboard that should be checked with a voltmeter and that is the bios battery. if it's the usual cr2032, then anything below 2.8 or so volts means you get another. at this point you've scoured the board for the jumpers that you've checked are all in the right places. i always make sure the speaker is a good one. but my next move is cardboard. remove the motherboard from the case since some builders may install too many metal standoffs and short out the backside of the motherboard. place the four parts on the cardboard and set it up. flip the ac on and use a spare jumper to power up the affair. no beeps? if you have a voltmeter, you can see if the psu has the correct voltage on each pin. if not, another psu is obtained (always oversize the watts!) and the test repeated. then the motherboard and then the cpu/hsf. bob
hey again, i tried the cardboard and everything. nothing is working. i think i am just going to have to buy a new combo. i will tell you this, however, when i first took the heatsink off, the cpu was practically glued to the back of the heatsink. in other words, i didnt have to undo the latch to take the cpu out, it came out when the cpu came off. do you think this could have done something to the cpu or the &quot;cpu holder&quot; on the mother board? is there anyway to test the cpu to see if it is still ok? thanks
there are no tests in the field except for swap and retest. if you don't have spare parts... frankly, if the cpu and hsf came out without unlatching... but words haven't conveyed what a picture would. a real problem is that a faulty psu could have caused this as well as a loose screw (or other conductive item) in the machine. sorry, i couldn't tell if it's good/bad without placing into a working machine. bob
