i have an older micron pc mellenia computer. it has a 751mhz amd duron cpu. i know that i can upgrade it to a 1000mhz amd thunderbird, cause i asked them a while ago, and i can find one that is not too expensive. my question is, how hard is this to do? is this basically a hardware operation, or is it very complicated? i wouldn't bother to do it, but some of the programs i want to run could use the little bit of extra speed thanx kzolady
you generally need to just remove the old heatsink/fan and then the cpu by disengaging a lever device. the processor lifts out easily. the new processor will have notched end to tell you how it's oriented. you insert it and relock the lever. then you need to install the heatsink/fan using an application of thermal grease. generally the bios will properly configure the cpu timing but not always. some older boards used jumpers that had to be moved around. you would need a manual or jumper diagram specific to the mb to figure this out. now, the performance increase you will get from a 1ghz cpu compared to yours now is not going to be much. i have to wonder how much ram you have and if that might be a better way to go....or do additionally.
if you know your mtrbd. can support an upgrade cpu, then besides the physical replacement, is the settings. in older systems, that required resetting &quot;jumpers&quot; and usually your system manual or possible inside case decal -or- upon the mtrbd. silk-screened on provided the required info. if none, then check at the support website for a d/l'able manual and check that. if you're real lucky the system will &quot;autoset&quot; the required setting or you manually reset via the bios rather than any jumpers. once set, the system sees the new cpu and acknowledges it at proper setting. this will al be seen upon boot-up on the initial dispaly. tada -----willy
the athlon 1ghz is a pop-it-in job. the big deal is if you have added a second hard disk and what else, the power supply may be nearing its limit. the athlon 1ghz will add to the load. but there are no jumpers to change. you want the 10 time 100 fsb model since it runs at the fsb speed. please don't ask what fsb when we have google.com. you'll need a new heatsink and cpu fan. if you don't, the new cpu will be toast. -&gt; it will do a little better but the big boost for our micron millenia was a better video card. the nvidia vanta is a dog compared to the fx5700le we put in. that upgrade is less work and pays off well. bob
i have added a 256? stick of sdram and a ati all in wonder 7500 card, but not a new hard drive ( i usually remove all the programs etc. that i don't use, most of my drive empty). you lost me after (you want the 10 time 100 fsb model since it runs at the fsb speed. please don't ask what fsb when we have google.com. you'll need a new heatsink and cpu fan. if you don't, the new cpu will be toast.) sorry i don't understand what the 10 times 100 fsb model means, and what heatsink and cpu fan i need. i don't know what a heatsink is either. sorry thanx
if you don't know what a heatsink is, and didn't try yahoo.com or google.com to see what it was, please don't upgrade this box. give yourself time to learn more. bob
