i have a samsung flatcrt monitor and occasionally i'll see orange lines going across the right side of the monitor. after about 15 seconds all the lines disappear. what's going on here? thanks!
sounds like your tube is on the fritz--time to get a new monitor. could be your video card--have you been able to test it the monitor on another computer? describe symptoms: - color? (deep orange, kind of faded, light rainbow) - organized? (straight lines, constant width/size)? - disorganized? (random dots, segments, waves)? - traveling? (moving from where to where)? if it's a light rainbow, it could be a magnetic field from an electronic device deflecting electrons from the cathode ray gun (unshielded speakers commonly cause this). however, there needs to be a dynamic magnetic field for this to occur intermittently, i.e., speaker power needs to be changing or speakers need to be moving.
i suppose a dark orange, but not too dark. they are straight lines that go from the farmost right side to about half way. i seem to notice them better when i open a window with a white background on the desktop. i just bought the monitor about half a year ago. i have an ati radeon 9600xt video card. i just downloaded the latest catalyst drivers. i haven't changed any settings besides the tv out configuration. are there any changes i can make to fix the problem? thanks!
i'm using firefox web browser i noticed there's an orange line across the folder tab. i'm not sure if it's always been there but that's the same orange color i see going across the screen sometimes. also i see the orange when i open my computer and hover over &quot;name&quot; &quot;type&quot; &quot;total size&quot;. i don't know if that's supposed to happen but that's what i see.
hmmm...it would be very informative to see if this phenomenon were repeated while connected to a different computer, then you could confidently rule out your computer. the good thing is that the samsung monitors i have seen have a 3 year warranty. i'd check into it. a shot in the dark: 1. check monitor cable for kinks, frays, loose at jack or base of monitor. 2. check to see if there are any ati card diagnostics in catalyst or downloadable from mfg.
seems like that orange underlining in my computer is standard on xp. same with firefox. so must be the monitor? but how, it's pretty new!
just to clarify... are you saying that the orange lines appear on the monitor when connected to computer one and to computer two? if the orange appears while attached to each computer it is either the monitor's hardware or you need to install the latest driver from samsung.com. try installing the latest driver.
at no particular time. i'll try installing the latest drivers then.
