i live in a large two story house with an upstairs office at one end of the house and a downstairs office at the opposite end. the cable enters the house on the second floor and i have used a di d-link connected to the cable modem to transmit a signal to the downstairs office for a second computer. when i started frequent dropped signals downstairs i installed a netgear in the wall plugs near the cable modem connecting to the downstairs. that seemed to help but i later added a much longer aerial extender to the d-link wireless router. i have decided to get an up to date wireless router to see if i can stop the dropped connections. i need advice on which one to buy for consistency of connection over a large area of the house. ronbrea
it is unlikely you will see much difference. most routers transmit at the maximum legal power. you have already tried the larger antenna trick which is pretty much the only option to manipulate the signal. you &quot;may?&quot; see better performance if you move all your equipment to n rather than g but its more because n is more tolerant of interference that g the transmit power is exactly the same. if you already run n then the brand of router will not make a difference. if you have not tried it you can move one of your antenna parallel to the ceiling/floor. router antenna are generally designed to transmit the signal horizontally and not up and down. maybe you get lucky but floors/ceiling eat a lot more signal than walls do. if i read that you have used the ethernet over powerline and place a second wireless ap on the end that is one of the more common solutions to this problem. wireless drops are a fact of life and you just have to live with them if you want to use wireless. it all comes down to interference that you can do little about
thanks bill012 i have not tried the pointing of the long antenna yet. another comment was to make sure that i did not have a &quot;flakey&quot; internet card in the receiving computer downstairs. i will let you know what i finally do and if it makes any difference at all.
