i have a belking f5d7230-4 router. everytime comcast changes my ip address (they do it all the time), i lose my connection. i have to unplug the router and replug to get it to work. this is a real pain. belkin has had me reinstall firmware and even replaced the router. same problem. there must be a setting somewhere. does anyone have an idea about this? thanks.
i did not take the time to find the manual for your router. if you want people to read that for you, please supply the link. the setting i look for is &quot;lease time renewal&quot; for the wan. example at  again, this is all volunteer so i have to let you supply those links if you want me to crack open the manual. bob
thanks. the link is:
i have called tech support so many times and they don't ever seem to have any clue. every once in a while, recycling the router doesn't work and i have to recycle both the router and the modem (which i also replaced thinking that could be the problem. i had a motorola, now a lynksys.... same prob... but i think it is in the router.
no doubt here. lease times are up to your isp to set. if they blow it then such things happen. read your manual and look for any options for lease times. just noting i cured one with a simple timer box. those things that turn on/off lights on a time clock. since the user was never home or slept during the night we programmed it to power off then on the router during the night. fixed. bob
as i do not own your router i can only offer ideas. i see &quot;the disconnect feature&quot; which if done proper will help out here. you could set it to 8 hours or so and the last router i had with this would disconnect and then when a pc would need a connection the wan dhcp would fire and the connection would be all fresh and ready. remember i can't know if you are running a torrent or such but isps are using ip changes at low hours to trip up the downloading crowd. bob ps. page 33 of the manual.
the disconnect feature seems to turn off the router if no activity...to save money if you are charged by the minute.. i need it to reset... but not disconnect...
i may not have given you the right version of the manual... this is the correct link... sorry...this is for my new firmware..
my lease time is set to &quot;forever&quot; is this what you were talking about? should i change this? thx
think it over very carefully. some get confused over the wan and lan settings. you claim above its an isp changing the ip address so no where should we be tinkering with the lan settings. also, you have to extend your thinking to &quot;how things work&quot; in regards to what a disconnect could do to help us fix this. i know many that will insist the documentation suggest that this could or should be used to some specific issue but you asked for ideas so here they are. bob
forgive me... i am talking a bit over my head. yes, this does seem to be related to the ip address changing and the router not recognizing it... it fexes by a manual recycle. i am not sure 100% but the two seem to coincide. when it happens, it affects my wired and wireless computers... so if lease refers to only the wireless...then i was confused. any other suggestions on how to get my router to accept the ip address changes automatically or otherwise assess the problem?
1. a timer to automatically reboot the router at a time you don't use the net. 2. trying the wan disconnect feature. so no other ideas unless we change the router. bob
an elegant solution... although it won't help in that period between ip change and reboot... but at least, if i am at a remote location for days, i will be able to get back in at some point... thx.
