hi, i want to upgrade hard drive in my desktop, but need to keep working. is it possible for me to connect the hard drive externally with a data adaptor, change it to my master, install the operating system, and install what i need onto it, before i insert it into the computer?
given the slim detail, someone might be using usb as as you know that is unsupported.
running ? how much free disk space do you have now ? how are you backing up your data ? vapcmd
you can't use the ext. drive as master or primary drive. it has to be an int. mounted drive. you can't defeat this or just overlook anything you do may in fact cause problems. the ext. hd shouldn't have an os installed it will only confuse or refuse to work properly in a windoze setting. fyi- if the whole idea was to installed a newer drive to replace your current one, then wait until you have it. once in hand, follow whatever instructions to copy or image copy your old to new drive, thus replacing it. most hd makers provide the needed s/w and/or gotten from the support website. once all that is done, remove the old hd for use as ext. hd. now provided everything works and you do have &quot;back-ups&quot; generated prior to install and/or you feel confident all is well, then re-use the old hd as ext. hd. you can then reformat it, etc or wipe clean and then format it, etc., to be ready for ext. use. tada -----willy
thanks willy, this is what i thought. just to clarify anyway, i'm running xp sp3, on a dell dimension 5190. an old machine but its suits my needs. there are two hdds.both 149gb. i'm a hobbist using daz3d, and over time, its grown to 100gb, so i currently have 8g free, and thats after deleting a load of stuff i use rarely i'm getting a seagate 2tb sata-600 7200rpm 64mb barracuda. i had thought that maybe i could go into the bios, make it my master, install the os, then change back to the original set up, and continue to install onto the new drive at my leisure. a shot in the dark, but worth asking, i suppose
seagate will provide the needed s/w i mentioned if you buy the retail &quot;hd kit&quot;, if not again they have it at their support website, probably adonis based. also, if current setup is 2 hds mounted, you maybe better off having &quot;two only&quot; one being the new hd and the old &quot;c&quot; primary drive. using the s/w will provide all you need to get things going. i mention 2 drives only so disconnect(or remove for the time being the old 2nd hd). once that's all done, remove old &quot;c&quot; drive and then mount new &quot;c&quot; as primary drive as well as the old 2nd drive. if all is done properly it should boot as if nothing happened, but with a new spacious hd. seagate has instruction, faq or guide for all this, just be sure to back-up critical or all data for safekeeping beforehand. take your time and enjoy your coffee of soda as well. tada -----willy
