does anyone know what external speakers work with the acer netbook???? i'm using tweaker portable speakers for my laptop but would like something a little better which could be powered by the usb port instead of ac or charging a battery like the tweaker speakers.
philips cushion speakers (sdc5100) if you are using your laptop a lot on your lap, this is your thing. it keeps the laptop cooler and takes the power from usb. sound is pretty good too (not brilliant).
i'm going to be using this acer netbook to play and store mp3's only. i called the acer company but they don't sell external speakers and they couldn't tell me which external speakers would work with my acer netbook.
that can be connected should work. why not take your laptop with you to the speaker-shop and try? don't expect any quality however from a speaker that doesn't have its own power cord. kees
i need to be positive that the speakers will work. i bought some usb powered speakers from best buy to use with my hp lap top that were suppose to work but it blew my power supply and i had to spend over $100 to get a new one.
is standardized (5.2v, 500 ma, that's 2.6w). so any device suitable for usb power shouldn't have blown the power supply (that's 30w or 40w for the netbook), especially if you dimmed the screen to have that use less power. maybe they were defective and something short-circuited? is there anything in the documentation from acer about maximum power the usb can safely deliver? if not, that's the question to ask their customer service. then you have the specs for your speakerset. however, the usb power of a laptop generally is less than the usb power of a desktop, especially when they run on battery, making usb powered speakers definitely not the first choice. as i said, any externally powered speakerset should be ok. kees
thanks for the reply but i'm still not going to buy any external speakers unless i know positively that they will work will my acer netbook. it's pretty sad when tech support for acer couldn't even answer this question.
if a headphone works, externally powered speakers will work also. in all other cases, you're stuck. acer won't guarantee that any usb-powered stuff they don't sell themselves will work. no maker of any usb-powered stuff will guarantee that it will work with your acer and not blow it up. kees
thanks for your added reply. acer doesn't make any external speakers for the netbooks.
i am using my bose music system as the speakers for my desk top computer and the cable is plugged into the aux in of the bose. i was wondering if they make an audio cable with 2 ends so that i could have one end hooked to my computer for speakers and one end to plug into my acer netbook so i could use the bose as speakeks for my netbook as well.
the earphone jack on the bose system is not being used and i was wondering if i got a cable and plugged it into that jack and the other end into the netbook's jack if that would work. i don't have the netbook yet to try this.
