sorry thats a pun...my query is about memory, i currently have 1 stick of memory in my machine - kingston 256mb 333mhz ddr pc2700 - what i'm confused about is the 333mnz and the pc2700 parts, i'm looking for more memory but i'm not sure if i need to buy the same i.e pc2700 and 333mhz, can i mix and match? for instance the one i'm looking at is 512mb 400mhz pc3200, will this have any effect. rnning: p4 2.4gb and xp pro. thanks goofs
well the answer is yes and know if you do indeed get different memory they might play together and they might not. through past experience this is the case. if they do they will run at the slower of the two speeds, if they don't you have spent $ for just the 512 which should run ok on your machine, maybe . i hope this helps and i don't seem like an idiot but this is just the way it works with memory. so for my $ i would match the memory.
the easy answer is there is no easy answer to your question. your best bet is to match what you have now but you can always refer to your mainboad specs for a better answer. if your computer didn't come with a mainboard manual it's usally possible to look up the manual on-line. simply open up your computer and scan the motherboard for a manufaturer name and model number then do a google search or visit the manufacturers website. if there doesn't appear to be a manufacturer name or model number look instead for an fcc id number and go to the fcc id website and type in the id numbers for your mainboard. you should be able to figure out who made your board and where their website is located from such a search. i can tell you from experience that most newer mainboards require matched memory in banks. for instance if you have 4 memory slots slots 1 and 3 must be a matched pair while slots 2 and 4 must be a pair also. though this varies from one manufacturer to another. my current asus a8n-sli mainboard is really picky and not only requires matched pairs but only seems to work with certain brands of higher end memory. the asus website has a list of all the memory that is known to work with my board so i try to stick to that list.
i should probably mention that just because a computer came from dell or gateway or whoever that doesn't mean it's mainboard was manufactured by them. in fact i don't think any major computer retailer makes their own mainboards. they usually buy them in bulk from companies such as gigabyte or soyo. most decent mainboards will be marked with a manufaturer name and model number or fcc-id. i have run across a few mainboards without any identifying marks at all, not even an fcc-id. in this case you'll have to contact the system builder to ask them for specs on the mainboard.
