i am going to be setting up a wireless network for my daughter with 3 computers. qwest will be supplying a dsl modem with a wireless router. the first computer will be connected to the computer with a cat 5e patch cord. there will also be a laptop and a desktop with wireless connection. my question is, can the two wireless computers be configured to use the printer that will be hooked up to the wired computer? i have done printer sharing before, but all computers were hard wired to the router and a network port on the printer. can it be done? and if so how do i set the computers up. thanks in advance wayne
sorry about the part about the first computer will be hooked up the the computer???? that should be the first computer will be hooked up to the router with cat5e.
wayne follow these steps you will have printer available on all you computer. i just did my two day ago. it works great. 1- go to add a printer 2- follow add printer wizard 3- select network printer 4 select brownse for printer example: \\winxp_home\hp 1100 series 5- select printer that is already connected to computer. 6- go to computer that has the printer. reboot that computer. 7- make sure the first computer work then do all the computer from step one again. good luck. please let us know.
it works pretty much the same as when you're connected to your cat5 network. in addition to the set-up described in the previous message for the &quot;client&quot; computer, you first need to make sure the printer is shared (start -&gt; printers & faxes -&gt; right-click on printer to be shared & select &quot;sharing&quot;. you may also need to check to make sure all computers are members of the same workgroup in order to share resources (right-click on &quot;my computer&quot;, select &quot;properties&quot;, then click on the &quot;computer name&quot; tab. click on the &quot;change&quot; button if you need to change the workgroup name. you'll need to restart the computer for the change to take effect. i actually did this just this afternoon on my home wireless network.
i will be driving to my daughters next week to set up her system. i will let you know how things went when i get back. thank you both very much for the advise. wayne
i tried the previous suggestions and my laptop does not see the printer. the printer connected to the other computer is &quot;shared.&quot; and we are on the same working group. any other ideas? thanks.
is your workgroup on each computer have a same name? do add a printer set up again. make sure you have to browse for network printer that is available. example: \\winxp_home\hp 1100 series good luck. please let us know.
the computer my printer is installed on has zonealarm. i'm not sure if i need to turn it off, and if so how? the windows xp firewall for printers is turned off on both. thanks.
i'm running zonealarm as well (on both the &quot;host&quot; computer and &quot;client&quot;) - and can access the shared printer without a problem. you may want to try turning off za (briefly) on the client computer and trying to access to see if it makes a difference. you can turn off za by right-clicking on the za icon in the system tray and selecting &quot;shutdown za.&quot; you may also want to check to make sure your home wireless network is in the trusted zone (double-click on the za icon in the system tray, click on the &quot;firewall&quot; tab/button on the left side of the za panel, then click on the &quot;zones&quot; tab).
go to: start settings network connections right click on the connection for the host pc click properties go to the last tab and enable file and printer sharing (it should be the firewall tab) you may need to restart the system. ps: you have to to this to all pc's. you can also access this feature from the windows firewall.
thanks, i got it working.
i just got back from my daughters and the wireless network and printing is working great with the help of all the advise i got here. the only thing different is, i had to load the printer software on to each of the wireless laptops before it would work? thanks to all. wayne
question, are your ip addresses allocated dynamically or are they static? i'm wondering how the printer could be found on the network if the ip address changes everytime the dsl connection is cycled for dynamic allocated addresses. my dsl provider does dynamic allocation.
