i have a western digital 80gb drive that i was using as an external drive. i took the drive off for a bit and i believe i even placed some of my friends files on there so that i can back up his drive. weelll now that i have placed the drive back into the casing to make it a external hard drive again, nothing picks up, i made sure all the jumpers where in place correctly and nothing. when placing the drive into my pc as a slave this is what i see wdc$wd84vfb-04cea6 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 17.47w17 and then my machine will not boot up. i take the drive off and i am able to get into my computer. i have alot of pics on that drive including of my late mother that just recently passed away and some of my exfiance, yeah i know shes my ex but i still like too see her pics and i have other personal pics on there. is there anything that can be done???? please let me know
wd drives are jumpered differently than most other mfr's drives.
ive actually tried every jumper, trial by error, and the jumper has been on a slave for months now never changed it. this is killing me lol
that is how wd drives get set as master with no other drive on the cable. however i'm not sure of whether the usb case actually uses the jumpering. for master only wd puts the jumper horizontally only for the purposes of providing a jumper for future use.
be fine, so don't do anything radical. possibly using it at both locations changed or corrupted something re the mbr or such. worse comes to worse get a knoppix cd and put the drive into a computer as master [the only drive in the computer at the time and see if the knppix cd gives access to the data. robert proffitt, a moderator here, and a few others are experts on use of the knoppix cd. i have two and have never even tried one.
actually yeah, and with the external casing the drive has to be placed with a jumper dont know why, but its been on as a slave for about a year or a year and half now. ive never had a problem until now with the drive, maybe the ide board on the hd went.
