i have a dell dimension l700cxe. it only has a cd-rom and i would like to buy a cd-rw/dvd burner for it. it only has the one opening for the cd-rom. i don't know what i should purchase, an internal, or external. i don't even know if i can get an internal. i also don't know if i have to purchase the burner from dell or if i can use another brand. can someone please help this complete novice with these dilemmas?
next time try to spend a minute crafting a topic. your choices are: 1. replace the cdrom with a dvd recorder. 2. if your os supports it, add an usb 2.0 card and get an external dvd recorder. your post neglected the tip so i can't tell if this is a solution. &quot;if you are asking for help to troubleshoot a computer-related problem, please be sure to include all the necessary information (ie: operating system, model number, hardware, software, etc) that will help others identify your problem for a speedy resolution.&quot; 3. your choice on brand. i am current using in one machine an 119 dollar 8x internal and on the other machine an external usb 2.0 setup which cost about the same. both drives were from local outlets and have no signifcant brandname. i'll replace them when they fail. bob
thank you so much for your help bob. i don't think you noticed that i said that i am a novice to computers. i am so computer illiterate. i think os stands for operating system, correct? i am using windows me. let me ask this, would it be possible to just have the one unit internal or just get the external and keep my cd rom? also how would i know if it will fit into the space where the current piece is located?
the windows me os has some limitations that will make dvd creation &quot;full of problems.&quot; but it is possible... since you are leaning to the external solution, here's the parts and excuse me if i share direct links and prices from a place i've bought from. 1. usb 2.0 card.  that's under 10 bucks. i actually have this model and it works fine for me. 2. dvd usb 2.0 drive  that's 199, but if you try it on sunrise or midnight madness sales, it's 99 bucks. 3. dvd drive and case. the alternative is to bolt it together yourself.  this one is 130 bucks, but is 12x all format recording. this future proofs it a little as much as we can do. for a drive case, i liked this one -&gt;  that's 33 bucks and the fan unit keeps it cool. all cables were supplied and it worked well. hope this gives you some ideas. in closing, to get usb working proper, if you have an issue, read  bob
