hi, i have a little problem, and i've been trying to find some answers on the net, but nothing. i have put a new cpu cooler - coolermaster hyper 6+ in my computer. it's a 4-pin cooler connected on a 4-pin connector on the intel d975xbxlkr bad axe motherboard with 975x express chipset. i have intel pentium d 930 processor. so, the problem is that the temperature of my cpu is 46 degrees with opened case, and 51-58 with closed case and the fan speed is max. 1750rpm. the cooler specif. says that the fan speed is from 1800-3600 rpm. i have installed speed fan and all the fans (front, rear and cpu-fan) are monitored and controlled trough emc6d103 chip and as i understand, pwm function. i've tryed to change the speed with speedfan, but nothing happends. with the default processor fan i had the same temperature results, but he changed the speed normaly, from 1900-2500 rpm. help please, if you have any idee. thx!!
notes some 63.4c temperature and a cpu that can emit possibly 93 watts. to drag the temperature down you'll have to work very hard to improve the cooling. but so far you are in spec. bob
as i understand it, the 4-wire fans(2nd level) only work when needed once a certain temp is reached. once, that theshold is meant, then the higher rpm fan setting kicks in to help cool an over-heated cpu. it seems after reviewing the website robert posted you're within std. specs. of the cpu operation. unless, your bios has a fan setting to change, then all this is done at a h/w level and no action from you will change it. tada -----willy
you're setup is working as intended, but not as expected. intel mobo's don't consider pentium 4/ds &quot;warm&quot; until they hit about 55c and they're not &quot;hot&quot; until they hit about 62c. that's why your cooler's fan hardly spins up beyond its minimum setting. (i've got a 650 (3.4ghz) with an artic cooler and its fan only spins about 500rpm most of the time and idle temp is about 55c. if you have intel's desktop utilities installed, open the mobo monitor and notice the green/yellow/red temp ranges.) your bios may have an option to turn off its fan management. doing so may allow speedfan to handle the management. also make sure your version of speedfan supports the 975 chipset. when i downloaded it last year it couldn't work with my d945gnt mobo. alfredo milani-comparetti (speedfan's author) sent me a beta build with support for the 945 chipset.
hey, thx a lot for youre answers, and, i have one more question - my defaul fans input is 0.42 a and this one 0.62 a. is it possible that my mobo doesent have enough power to run it?! and if it's so, could i connect my cooling somewhere directly to power supply (i'am working in 3ds max, bryce, autocad so i need a cold case intel d975xbxlkr power supp. aopen, atx2, 700w graphic card wildcat realizm 500
i think your cpu fan has both 4 and 3 pin connectors so you can plug it in several places. with your mobo monitor, check which fan is running fastest and swap it for your cpu fan. alternatively, you could get an $8 antec fan with speed control from cc/cusa/bb. you should be able to pull the molex adapter off of it and use it to plug your fan directly into the power supply. then just mount the antec fan in the rear and plug it into the motherboard.
that's a normal temperature for that cpu. why not just leave it alone and live with it?
well, for frst i have built my configuration for 4 months and i'd like it to work as i wanted to (i know it's impossible , and second, i hate when something is not working within specifications, or when i have some yelow ?? in my device man.and so on anyhow, the problem is not the cooling but the expectations
