i'm looking for a brand/model of a network media player to use at our company building. essentially, the functionality we need is as follows: connects to hdtv and ethernet can be used to display pictures, documents, presentations, and videos can be controlled remotely from other areas of the building through the network. preferably, i'd like someone to be able to upload a file to the device (or possibly a network share that the device has access to), and have their file display on the screen, all from within their office without having to actually be in front of the tv with a remote in their hand. previously, we had this functionality with a device known as minibox hd from agn pro, but the company has since gone out of business, and the devices no longer work. we tried using wd tv, but it was impossible to control these remotely without looking at the screen. does anyone know of a comparable device?
well we do use netbooks and pcs to do this. what happened to those miniboxes? just dead? bob
the network media-player function can be easily built into a tv or other entertainment component. among the devices that can connect directly to computers and home networks are networked blu-ray disc players, audio/video receivers, tivo and other digital video recorders, and video-game consoles like the playstation3 and xbox360. most of these devices connect through an internet connection or an optional external wireless accessory. a network media player makes it pretty easy to share your media on your home theater. whether you choose a dedicated-network media-player device, or a tv or home-theater component to enjoy your media, be sure you have what you need to set up your home network and network media player.
i have not found any tv that does what they asked today. specifically &quot;without having to actually be in front of the tv with a remote in their hand.&quot;
i think i may have found a solution using the acer revo rl70-ur308 i believe i can remote into the machine and control it over the network...can anyone verify that this will do the trick?
while i did have a similar powered laptop it was stressed to laggy playing some videos. i disposed of it shortly. in your case, it looks close but be sure to test it out to see if your content plays well enough for you. bob
