i have 3 macs connected wirelessly to an airport express. in the past few days the wireless signal to all 3 macs has dropped twice. in other words, although there was a steady green light on the airport express, there was no signal indicated on any of the macs. after power cycling the airport express & restarting the macs, the signal was re-established. please excuse the lengthy explanation, but i am trying to see if i am on the right path to resolving this. a tech at my broadband isp confirmed that there was no problem with either the incoming internet line nor my cable modem. so the problem seems to likely reside downstream from the cable modem to the airport express. i have a voip phone device connected between the cable modem & the airport express via ethernet cable. however, i have been advised by a knowledgeable person that even if the voip device was faulty, the airport express should nevertheless still transmit a wireless signal (of course there would be no internet connection). if this is true, it would suggest that the problem stems from the airport express itself. is this reasoning make sense? thank you for your patience & any help.
we are dealing with wifi which can be interfered with by external sources. to expect it to never drop means that the discussion about what wifi is needs to start. and, i can't find your router settings. please try the forum suggestions. bob
i am simply trying to validate the following suggestion: since an airport express transmits a wireless signal, regardless of whether the voip device or any other device upstream in the chain is faulty, the airport express will continue to transmit. of course if there is an interruption in the incoming internet pathway, the transmitted airport express signal will not allow the computer to connect to the internet. if this is reasonable, it would suggest that since my computers are sporatically not receiving a wifi signal at all, the problem would reside in the airport express itself. bob, you mentioned trying the forum suggestions. could you please point me in that direction? thank you.
is in the top posts called stickies in this forum. i think you have a good handle on the problem. if you can't connect to the wifi router (this one is an airport) with any machine then it's the airport with some 98% certainty. i take out my spare router for the final test as sometimes you find the owner has repeated the same mistake on all machines (too many to list here.) the old hide the ssid issue is coming back to haunt owners again. this old advice is making my friends lots of money as they make house calls to unhide the ssid. sometimes you wonder if there is a reason for the bad security advice. bob
