-processor: intel core-i7 second gen :core i7-2600 (3.4ghz cache 6mb) lga 1155 -mobo: asus p8h61-m le -vga: winfast gtx 280 -windows 7 professional -corsair vs2gb1333d3dr 2gb ddr3-1333 (x2) -hdd: wdc caviar&#174; blue&#8482; 1t / 32mb / sata 3.0 &lt;div&gt; &lt;/div&gt;
there will always be some bottleneck. while a gamer might like that combination a gamer will allows find a game that doesn't load fast enough (hurry up, i want to play!) or write about lag. my honest assessment is this is a fine setup for games. however there is always a bottleneck no matter what parts you pick. bob
thanks for replying, it really helps !
different applications stress computer components differently, so whether or not the set, or individual components, will bottle neck your computer depends on what you will be doing with it. what do you want to do with the pc? - what applications, game settings, monitor resolution, etc. what is your budget? what psu do you plan to use? do you plan to buy the best core components now and upgrade others later, or just want a good balanced system now? you are buying a top end processor, which is good if you do a lot of cpu intensive activities like video editing, but might be money better spent elsewhere, again depending on your answer to the above questions. i would definitely get a minimum of 4 gb of memory - although perhaps that is what you meant above instead of the wd blue series of hd, i recommend the faster black series. for video cards you have a lot more options, a wide range based on budget and and gaming preferences. i would not get the gtx 280 which is now about 2 generations old - but a new model. for some help in selecting a video card, i recommend visiting this site which has a lot of good information and links about selecting the best video cards:  look particularly at this page which provides some guidelines for identifying system requirements and your own wants and needs for video cards:
is a better mix as you avoid having one web site.
