hi there-- i have two machines with soyo 6ba+ motherboards in them, i am finally done with various projects i needed them for and can do maintenance on them. both motherboards seem to be working fine, but i have the original non-updated bios's in both. should i flash them or leave them alone? thanks - fj
i did. it was my decision since i had the time to update them because i found the changes worthwhile in where the old boards were. no support for large drives and you can't find under 40gb drives anymore. if nothing else, download latest and put in the box for that day. bob
well the reason i ask is, i am afraid of the consequences of screwing it up. (i am reasonably experienced but i've never done this particular task before, and many people [and bios websites] have told me not to do it if not absolutely necessary) i guess if the power stays on it should be okay. are there any tricks to it other than reading the instructions? will a bios upgrade allow me to use bigger than 30 gb drives? (which i currently cannot use?) i have a soyo 6ba+ and a 6ba +iii. fyi, tiger direct sells 30 gb seagates for about $60. thanks fj
that's the reason i updated. 60 bucks gets a new 7200 rpm 80 or larger gb drive. why should i give up space over a bios update? no real tricks. just get the right bios files. bob
thanks, i'll give it a go! --jl
hi there well i finally screwed my courage to the sticking place, downloaded the bios upgrade and awardflash. exe, followed all instructions, and when it asked me if i wanted to save old bios, i said sure, and it's spitting at me . . . i don't think i've ruined it yet, but . . . i guess i can't pick my own filename, i have to type the name of the current bios. is the old bios file the little sequence of numbers i see at startup? i assume i have to type that in if i want to save the old bios? -- --fj
hey there well it took me a while to figure out that while i had to not type the &quot;exe&quot; file extension on a&gt;awdflash, i did have to type the &quot;.bin&quot; extension on the new bios filename. i am up and running -- and it is recognizing the 40 gb drive now! hooray! how big of a drive can this soyo 6ba+ mobo recognize now with the bios update ya spose? ==fj
past that and you may be pressing your luck. some motherboard makers have this on their website. bob
