is socket 775 and lga 775 the same thing? i have a motherboard with a intel core 2 duo e6300 and says my socket is 775. am i able to upgrade to quad core which requires lga775?
not only much the socket match but the bios must have quad core support. if only you had supplied the motherboard make/model we might have checked if quad core was on it's list. bob
p5lp-le i think it's an asus
please don't ignore the words in red. &quot;asus p5lp-le motherboard (specific to hp) bios release date: 2006-05-01 bios version: 3.17 - 04/20/2006 (current bios if from the hp website)&quot; sorry, these boards don't support core 2 duo so there is no hope for quad core. bob
right or not. and if not right, it won't work properly. you need to check the asus site for the lates cpu support. vapcmd
what you've provided, and some information i found on hp's website, the mainboard has the intel 945 chipset, which is core 2 compatable in most all cases, and you said you have a core 2 duo currently installed (and working i would assume?) which leads me to believe it might support the quad core, however there are other variables you should consider before going for a quad core, like the power supply and case cooling.
yes i do have a core 2 duo running on it right now but i've only gotten two helpful replies and both are different answers(yes and no). can i run the quad core? i need a for-sure answer and if i cant can i get suggestions on what type of motherboard i should buy? (psu, cooling and such i can deal with myself)
just to clear up, lga775 and socket 775 are two differnt things, right?
asus p5lp-le do support dual cores.
that's why i noted it. thanks for the correction. bob
if you find otherwise...let us know.   re upgrading...sometimes it's better to get another system or build your own pc than to upgrade a proprietary pc. generics give you full latitude to use whatever parts you want vs. those designed for proprietary systems. vapcmd ps....while all socket 775 cpus physically fit in the lga 775 socket, it doesn't mean they will work (at all) or if they work, work properly. much has to do with the motherboard and the mb bios and there are scores of enthusiasts who've purchased the latest mbs only to find their high-end processors won't work at all until they update the mb bios. but without a cpu that the system recognizes, they can't update the bios so they often resort to borrowing or sometimes buying an older, cheaper processor just for the purpose of flashing the bios. once the bios is flashed to the newer (or newest version).. it will then recognize and work properly with the c2d or quad-core cpu.
hi. what kind of p5lp-le motherboard are you running a core 2 on? i have a p5lp-le (lithium) hp name lithium-ul8e.  according to specification, it does not support core 2. but the latest bios update adds cpu support - but hp doesn't tell which cpu:s.  i want to upgrade my old p4 650 prescott 3.4 ghz, but can't find out which cpus that are actually supported. help would be appriciated. /per
i was wondering the same thing cuz i had a fan i was buying and it said lga775 so i called intel and to make a long story short. no they are the exact same thing.
