one of our laptops is a lenovo t60 with usb2 ports. we want to buy a flashdrive with a metal case that swivels to go on a keychain so that we can carry certain data around with us. the flashdrive is a staples relay usb flash drive. it's u3 and comes with software and bloatware: relaysync skype signupshield avast 1) can we use a u3 with a laptop with a usb2 port? 2) if yes, how do we delete the skype, signupshield and avast? 3) if we want to use synctoy, can we just get rid of the relaysync? or should we keep and use the relaysync? 4) if we delete all of the above software, do we need to do anything like reformat the flashdrive? 5) if yes, how does one format a flashdrive? (actually, even if the answer to #4 is no, i'd like to know how one formats a flashdrive. 6) if the package says that the flashdrive is compatible with win98se, me, 200, xp and says that is it not compatible with any other windows platform, does that mean what i thikit means? that this flashdrive would not be compatible with our other laptop which has windows vista? thanks in advance for answering! alex
i bought a two gig sandisk and it came with all that junk on it. a visit to the sandisk site found the directions to remove the crap and format it. now it's just like a two gig external drive. when you plug it in it'll show up like any other drive. just right click and choose format. vista compatable? don't know. vista is still broken. wayne click here to see the cnet faces, learn a little about analog and digital data, internet connections, spyware removal, and download free software. 5 db hot.
some like this stuff but i just get the plain drives. fortunately most u3 can be uninstalled if there is an issue. today's version of u3 is ready for vista (are you ready would be the flip side of this question.) i have no issues with my non-u3 drives on vista in the usb 2.0 ports. i do not have or seen a vista machine with usb 1.1 ports. bob
i have had the same problems with u3 as you. i found that the u3 versions below 1.4 do not work on vista. i do alot of work on computers at school and i have had problems running between win 2000, xp, and vista. i really would like to update my u3 software. if any one finds a site i can do that please inform me at animal0307@yahoo.com thank you.
yep, that's it. updates for most u3 sticks are there. also removal notes for those that need it gone. bob
