i am using a wireless connection from my desktop pc (usb wireless) to a netgear gr614. i have been this way for 6-8 months. i started having internet connection problems so i created a continuous running ping to 192.168.1.1 i do get 99% connectivity but i lose packets in groups of 6-10 ping attempts. i can repair the wireless connection and it repairs ok or if i wait long enough, the pc will self reconnect. the problem is that i lose the connection to my remote server applications. i also (although not sure if related) started getting blocked attempts outbound on port 110 which just happens to be my inbound email port. neither my isp or the host isp are blocking. and a reboot of the pc solves the problem. i am trying to determine if the issue is 1) using a usb wireless; 2) the wireless device itself or 3) the router. the problems do appear more often when the pc is under load (e.g., running a citrix desktop) so that there is continuous data flowing. so i am open to suggestions as i am at loss.
i also want to add that the failure is also more prominent when viewing streaming video. i tried changing the wireless connector at the pc level and same problem. both were usb connections. nothing shows in the netgear logs either.
our forum members seem to agree that we should start with these basics. 1. latest router firmware. 2. defaults such as ssid broadcasting. 3. wpa for security. what's different for your setup? bob
i never get disconnected, except during a thunderstorm. firmware update can be found here  i broadcast ssid use wpa personal security just like bob said. rick
wpa security firmware updated ssid broadcasting is not disabled but the logs show no one else on my network i am bringing home a 35 ft cat 5 form work to see if wired cuases any drops
wall &gt; isp modem/router &gt; netgear wgr614v6 &gt; wired/wireless also you didn't tell us your isp. if it's verizon and you have a westell modem/router, then the ip addresses conflict with each other and you need to change the ip address in the netgear router. read this post for instructions  remember that cordless phones 2.4gh use the same frequencies as the wireless router and may disconnect you. rick
isp is comcast cable and these events are new
