it's getting round to my pc laptop upgrade time again, and am wondering whether the galaxy note 10.1 (android) could serve as a laptop replacement if i get it with the keyboard dock and usb mouse for when i need to turn it into . after all, my laptop needs are (i) that it is light and compact (ii) that it is compatible with high speed mobile internet use including skype and youtube (iii) stores pdfs, photos, and supports standard pc programmes such as word and excel. gaming functionality is just a 'nice to have'. is there any reason not to get the galaxy note 10.1 as my laptop replacement? one reason i suppose is that samsung are apparently coming out with yet another tablet, but a windows based one. is it worth me waiting for that if i am looking for a laptop replacement in my tab?
standard pc programs like ms word and ms excel don't run on android. so if that's a requirement, android is a no-go. kees
thanks for your info about android - so i'll avoid that. i have a budget of 500 uk pounds / 600 euros / 800 us dollars what's the best windows-based tablet i can buy as a laptop replacement?
that you can find them in just a short while. and then you see 2 basic offerings. one is the usual netbook cpu and it's lack of speed may put you off. not only that you paid full price for a laptop but got a netbook. the other is usually i5 based and you could buy 2 laptops for that one tablet. why the fascination of the tablet? bob
good question. just that it is the latest thing and i'd like to try it. i like the adaptability of having the lightness of a tablet when i browse the internet in a coffee shop, or watch a movie on the train, then the ability to connect it to a keyboard at my desk when i need to write a big word file. i may either settle on another small laptop, or hold out for the windows 8 tablets coming out within 2 months, eg the samsung ativ smart pc (which is a large monster, am assuming there will be smaller win8 tablet offers)
kees
i have a tablet. it's one of the android things and does not replace my laptop. i don't attach a keyboard but set down the tablet when i go to use my laptop. those that try to merge the 2 will be very upset. as to the win8 tablet if it's one of the arm based units, again, no word for you unless microsoft issues it. it appears you may be learning about these new devices. that is, i've encountered folk that thought they would be a small &quot;windows pc&quot; and they are not. bob
&quot;it appears you may be learning about these new devices. that is, i've encountered folk that thought they would be a small &quot;windows pc&quot; and they are not.&quot; exactly why i'm here. thanks for sharing. still, win8 looks to be about to bring us small &quot;windows pc&quot; tablets after all
the surface, i linked to above, will be in 2 versions: arm and non-arm. the non-arm versions will be rather expensive. but indeed, they will run ms office. and surely, there will be other models from other makers. just a few weeks waiting and you can read the reviews or even try them yourself. kees
the surface looks perfect. but yes, bet it'll be expensive - probably double my budget. in the meantime, any recommendations for the best value pc laptop at a budget of 500 uk pounds / 600 euros / 800 us dollars ? i'd go for 10.1&quot; for weight of 1.3 kg or less, and am a sucker for big brands such as samsung and hp (can't imagine buying a lenovo, assus or acer).
is the top post with some new entry with the best sellers at amazon. i have had a lot of positive feedback on that. bob
