i want to hide everything that can be used to find the location of my internet connection. in order to do that, i'm planning to use ultrasurf, hotspot shield, smac(or any program to change my mac address), and maybe putty. the only problem is that i need to know how i can combine these programs. i need to know if there is a program that can take a proxy address like ultrasurf and let me select which program will run with it. this would be very helpful because in that way i do not to change the configuration of mozilla firefox or ie every time i use them, and it also allow me to use ultrasurf in programs that don't have an option to set up a proxy. the program that most closely would fulfill my needs is gtunnel (  ), but for some reason did not work on windows vista and it did not shows all my programs. do you know any program like this? any suggestion on how to hide my location? please, do not tell me this question is illegal because it's not. i do not plan to do anything wrong with this.
the reason is simple. if you were hidden, internet traffic would not make it to your machine. this is just like hiding your mail box and asking for the mail to be delivered to your secret location. bob
first i assume you are going to pay for a service? the only way to do this is to make all your traffic appear to come from another machine. that other machine someone has to pay for. there are some free services out there but you will have to search. the simplest and the one that will bypass just about any firewall or proxy is ssl vpn. because this uses the same protcol as https sesions it is unlikely to be blocked. this is how the kids play world of warcraft at schools. the ssl vpn client itself generally does not need to be &quot;installed&quot; so it will run on even the most secure machines since most are java based. the next is a ipsec vpn. many small routers support this so you could use a friends house if they allow it. this is how we watch tv in other countries that have ip restrictions. any type of vpn is the best because it creates another interface on your machine. the application do not have to be reconfigured since they cannot tell if the port is a wireless/ethernet/vpn...etc most the other solutions are a pain. you have to configure proxy which of course does not work for apps that want to use ports other than the standard ones. you can use ssh to build a sorta vpn tunnel but it is a pain but the way we used to do it years ago. be somewhat careful of what software you run. many things can get lots of information. google chrome has been blasted by many for the tracking info it sends/keeps. it will at times even send the user id you are logged into.
