hello- new to this forum and i apologize in advance if this question has already been asked. i'm looking into purchasing a tablet as a christmas gift for my husband and i'm stuck on 3 that i have looked up. i would really like some feedback as to which is more recommended. here are the three that i'm thinking about: samsung galaxy tab 2 10.0 ipad 2 asus nexus 7 any help/suggestions is greatly appreciated! thanks so much for your time.
what we surely have no recommendation on is the size. some people prefer 10&quot;, other people prefer 7&quot;. what does your husband prefer? kees
he's not picky when it comes to size. so that's another reason why i'm having a hard time choosing one. it would be a lot more easy if he had a preference.
very nice display. i have a couple other 10 inch devices such as the transformer with keyboard dock and an older viewsonic gtablet. was there something in particular i can answer? the use may determine some choice and the size also can determine the choice as for grab and go the 7 is very nice. also, have the kindle fire hd 7 in the kit. bob
i'm just having a hard time choosing one of the 3 that i posted. i've heard that they're very similar, but what makes them different, besides the price and size. it will mostly be used for video streaming and web browsing at home.
however some folk are wanting to browse the web just like their pc. for that the ipad comes up a little short so while it's great some sites are sill in need of adding support for the ipad and the no-flash issue. for the nexus 7 i installed firefox beta and flash and it's all good now. there are very few sites that don't work now. this app and addon should be fine on the samsung so let's see what the samsung has more of.  i see the tab has dual cameras over the nexus single camera. the samsung charge is over a proprietary cable and my 7 charges off a standard connection. the sasmung has a 32gb memory card slot, the 7 has no slot. both should surf the web fine and play a lot of videos. bob
at that time the tab 2 wasn't out yet. i bought it for the display and i prefer android over apple. of the 3 in your post 1. samsung galaxy tab 2 - nice display, lots of android app available 2. ipad2 - most applications and easy to use. 3. asus nexus - cheaper and smaller screen, access to lots of android apps. 4. the new entry the surface rt - the windows market is new and not as many applications but it's growing. it odes have microsoft office, only available in windows store (online or the retail stores) late to the competition.
