hello i am trying to get devices on 2 different routers connected and networked together. i'll describe the setup... internet comes into the home via an actiontec 2000 wireless/broadband router located in basement. connected to the actiontec 2000 are: tv set-top box /pvr - wired connection desktop pc running win 7 - wired connection wireless devices that are brought into the basement ie. laptops or smartphones etc would be connected to the actiontec as well. dlink xtreme n wireless router - wired connection from actiontec is plugged into the internet plugin on back of dlink. to the dlink i have connected: xbox 360 - wired connection laptop win xp - wireless connection laptop win 7 - wireless 2 blackberries - wireless connection the ip address for the actiontec is 192.168.1.254. ips it gives out to the devices connected to it are 192.168.1.xx. the ip address of the dlink is 192.168.0.1 and the range it gives out to devices are 192.168.0.xxx is there a way to configure the routers and/or the devices to all exist on the same network? i have access to both of the routers admin settings, as well can adjust the ip settings of the devices as well. if more information is needed i can provide, thanks so much for reading and for any help! thanks david
i would not have used the wan port of the second router but you can google how by the following phrase. &quot;how to use a router as a wap?&quot; bob
hi bob, thanks for your reply. i actually fixed it by doing what you said. i unplugged the wan port connection on the dlink and put it in one of the lan ports. now everything is talking together and on the same ip address range. thanks! david
it's a common network setup (some call it a trick.) but it's something you keep on hand for those special setups. bob
hi all i don't suppose it is possible to do this via a wireless connection? i have a similar issue where i have my modem downstairs which is connected to the internet and also to the sky box via ethernet. my laptop and phone are connected via wireless. i also have a modem with an external hard drive plugged into the usb port upstairs which may also connect to my bluray player via ethernet. basically i want to be able to connect my wireless devices to the modem upstairs which in turn speaks to the modem downstairs so i can access the internet. is this possible? if someone could point me towards a tutorial that would be amazing, as you can see, my terminology isn't up to spec enough to know what to search for!
i would start a new post. and how i solved that was to add a powerline network bridge and setup the other router as a wap. no new tech involved. bob
ok, i'll start it in a new thread, thanks for the advice
