last week i bought a new pc (compaq cq5700f-os windows 7). i am using it with my old monitor (emachines e17t4w) problem-there is about a 2 inch strip of black from top to bottom on the right hand side. i ran through the monitor menu, nothing fixed the problem though &quot;auto&quot; made the black space smaller by a couple of inches. i did a chat with a compaq tech who could not identify and fix the problem. emachines web site offered no help either. so i turn to you techies hoping someone might have an idea what is going on and have a possible solution. note-monitor worked perfectly with old pc (emachines), it never had this problem. old pc has been taken to recyclers so there is no way to plug it back in and see if it would still work correctly with that pc.
i see that a lot when the monitor driver is not installed, i'm unsure why but many need this setup at the shop. bob
i did consider it might be a driver issue but did not feel comfortable trolling the web looking for a needle in a haystack-correct driver. i did check out the windows 7 compatibility center. they listed 2039 monitors/tv's that are compatible with windows 7. they listed only 3 emachines monitors. my emachines monitor wasn't listed. i don't have the money to take it to a tech and have them fix the problem. so i think i will live with the black bar on my screen since it is not really a distraction. just thought i'd try and fix it if i could.
we have the two name brands and the model numbers but the driver would be the monitor driver. this is not so much a driver but a file called monitor.inf that let's windows know what settings to show for that monitor. you can google monitor.inf if you want to learn what these files do. as i noted, i find many don't want to install these so a trip to a good shop is often the cure. then again, you just bought the machine from who? maybe they'll fix this for you. bob
found this driver updater on cnet site. it was just added 6/8/11. i'd like to think this would be a safe download that wouldn't cause my pc to get the wrong drivers and thus create problems only a pc tech could fix. do you have any opinions about this software?  also to answer your inquiry about returning item to place purchased to have drivers updated, that is not an option. i ordered the pc online from target and had it shipped to me.
i'm never had to use such. i'd head to e4me.com or whatever the emachines site is to find the monitor driver. i've yet to see driver packs include monitor.inf files. bob
the first place i checked for monitor drivers was at emachines website. for my monitor there are no driver updates available. i think since the monitor is four years old they don't bother to offer driver updates. thanks for the info about driver packs not including monitor.inf files, i did not know that.
that notes the hide feature and you can try other settings there. however it's possible that since the monitor is pnp (more praying?) that you'll have fun trying video card drivers too. bob ps. yes, it was sold with the westinghouse label and maybe other names.
so i went to the link you provided and read about how to find what graphic resolutions the graphic adapter supports. but because i have windows 7 (i think directions were for vista) it took me a little bit of time to find access to the list (under control panel, change display settings, advanced settings). then i went to my monitor menu, and under advanced went to information.the monitor info reads &quot;1280 x 720 60 hz&quot;. then i went back to supported graphics resolutions and switched it from where it was set, &quot;1280 x 720 true color (32 bit) 59 hz&quot; to the same but at 60hz. instead of 59hz. clicked apply and now i have full use of the screen. one strange note. when i first changed the setting from 59hz to 60hz i encountered a wavy screen problem. so i went back into the supported resolutions list and tried a few of the other 1280 x 720 choices. those did not solve the problem. so i decided to go back to the above 60hz setting. and for whatever reason the wavy screen problem was gone. thank you for all your help
59hz was indeed a little strange as almost all lcd panels are 60hz things. sorry but it's quite odd to find such a number today in the video settings. makes you wonder how that happened. my theory is that it had some crt display as default. good you sorted it out. bob
