hi there. my internet will just cut off ramdomly near enough every day. some times 3-4 times a day. the only i can get it working again is by restarting the computer which i quite annoying. i am running windows vista. i connect to a 3com office adsl wireless router ive have narrowed down some problems though. i have also got 2 other computers connecting via a wire (1 vista & 1 windows server 2003) and 2 laptops (1 vista & 1 2000) connecting wireless. none of these ever disconnect. i brought a 10/100/1000 network card as i thought there might be a problem with the onboard lan. which there can't be if it cuts out with this card. when it cuts out it still says that it is connected at the bottom and disabling and enabling doesnt work nor does repairing it. it could cut out when im using it or when im not. it will keep me signed into windows live messenger but i none of my messages go through to people. can anyone help please. thanks amd sempron 2400+ cpu foxconn motherboard 2 gb of memory 512mb ati 1650pro agp
i change the ssid to something like virusfarm then enable ssid broadcast and use wpa for the security. no other settings are touched. if the laptop still disconnects make it a warranty issue. your post mentioned the wired connection fails so that's a truly bad sign. bob
it isnt the laptop that is disconnecting it is a computer. i have 2 other computers and 2 other laptops.that connect to the same router. the computer that is disconnecting uses a ethernet cable to connect.
i change the ssid to something like virusfarm then enable ssid broadcast and use wpa for the security. no other settings are touched. if the desktop still disconnects make it a warranty issue. your post mentioned the wired connection fails so that's a truly bad sign. i'd use a linux bootable cd to see if that works ok. the reason for the wifi setup is to shut down a possible issue there regarding mac address spoofing. bob
i can't make a warrently as i built the pc. why would i need to change the ssid and wap security. there is nothing wrong with the connections to the 2 other computers and 2 other laptops , and i have a good firewall and no one is trying to get into the wireless router. the only problem i have is the connection on my main pc (this one im using at the moment)
i know of a certain exploit and wanted to dismiss that by such changes. as you are not agreeable to such configurations even as a test run i think i'm done here. as to the bum machine that's sad. home builts can be trouble for some but let me depart with the usual cause. 1. the motherboard drivers were never installed. 2. a cracked os was used. bob
it has nothing to do with the wifi . i was just saying that two laptops connect via my router using wifi. 2 computers(wired) and 2 laptops(wireless) connect perfectly to the router but the 3rd computer that is wired just keeps disconnecting, but the network connections in vista just says it is connected.
i had hoped we could work together on this. but it is not to be. i wish you the best in resolving this. bob
