i decided (from some reason) to upgrade my firmware on my light-on dvdrw shm-165h6s. i went to light-on's site and found the only firmware version there. downloaded and installed just fine. no problems at all. it told me to re-boot so i did. now after i reboot windows xp pro says it found new hardware (the light-on drive that has been installed for over a year). i tried both options (to let windows find the driver, or me specify the location). both ways windows doesn't find any driver. if i try to select a driver i get &quot;dvd/cd-rom drive filter&quot; it says this driver is not digitally signed. i still try to install it. (after a couple of warnings that windows can't verify the driver) then it asks for pxhelp20.sys file. i find it in my windows/system32/drivers directory and install. then it finish and says &quot;there was a problem installing this hardware.&quot; i end up doing the same thing again next time i reboot? any idea what i need to do? my only worry is that i plan to re-install windows here in about two weeks. and i need this drive to work? my computer is a asus p800-deluxe p4 1gb of ram?
driver or use a system restore for the same. why update the driver if the old one works ok?.
whenever the firmware on a dvd drive is updated, the os will call it &quot;new hardware&quot; when you reboot. there should be no different drivers needed just because of a firmware update.
there should be no different drivers needed just because of a firmware update. ------------- perhaps that's true for a dvd?? what i've seen with other hardware is the firmware update seems to change the device type/id. when windows goes looking for a driver to match the type/id there is no match. now it's back to the maker's site to find a driver that supports the new firmware.
&gt;&gt;&gt;why update the driver if the old one works ok?. usually to help boost performance some, and so forth. &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;there should be no different drivers needed just because of a firmware update. i agree that is what so surprising. also i have another (older) dvd burner that works just fine, no driver problems. &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;now it's back to the maker's site to find a driver that supports the new firmware. the site doesnt have any drivers for its cd/dvd drives. as far as i have seen, they want us to use the windows xp driver. i dont know if i have some newer driver that windows thinks it should install or what? i cant find the right *.inf file to get this to install properly.
if you can, reinstall your old driver. afterwards, make sure all is working ok. then reinstall the new driver. do not reboot! shut off the computer and unplug it. wait for about 15 seconds for the 5 volts to bleed down; plud it back in and boot as normal. hope it helps!
did you mean driver or firmware? i never changed the driver, just for some reason windows xp can't seem to find the correct driver. for firmwware, i actually wish i could go back to an old version but there aren't any listed on light-on's site. only the version i currently have. i did find one on a different site (i don't know how old it was) but when i tried to install it, it already knew i had the latest version?
they are talking about the problem you have here:  also as you read down the list, there is a post that says go here:  give it a try to see if that will fix the problem.
