i have a 4 1/2 yr old emachine (w2888) with 'integrated graphics' and i was told it would not work with a large monitor like a 22&quot;. my graphics controller is a &quot;intel(r)82845g/gl/ge/pe/gv&quot; if that helps. i have no experience with changing my original system and adding new components/peripherals, so i wanted to ask here to find out if this is true. my processor is a 2.8ghz if that helps also. i would love to move up to a 22&quot; (or at least a 20&quot;) from the 17&quot; crt i now have, but don't want to invest in something if my system won't work with it. would appreciate any help/suggestions!
firstly if you are using xp go to control panel/display/settings and then see what the max. supported resolution of your graphics controller is by sliding the bar to the far right. i think a 22' monitor needs about 1680 x 1050. if you find that your graphics controller can only just handle the 1680 x 1050 res. you may be better off going for the 20&quot; or sticking with the 17&quot; the down side of running your graphics card at near max. resolution will be very very slow frame rates when playing games and poor quality video. regards silent11
to add to my previous thread, when you slide the bar in display settings over to the far right by holding your left mouse button down and keep your left mouse down until you return to your orginal resolution for your 17&quot; monitor, so you dont do any damage to your current monitor. regards silent11
thanks so much for your info; i've covered the internet trying to get/find an answer to this question for days now with no response. currently, my 17&quot; is set @ 1024 x 768; and the max i can go is 1280x960, so i guess pushing it to a 20&quot; might be too much? also, as you pointed out, pushing to max will be poor quality and slow frames; doesn't sound good to me. i think i'll consider getting a new system instead. thank you again for your answer as it was very helpful to me.
look for updated drivers for your integrated video. my ibm thinkcentre had minimum resolutions until i updated the drivers. it now supports anything. a new video card is cheaper than a new system.
thanks for the input here, but once again i think i'm getting things all confused.. i was told awhile ago that if my system has 'integrated' video; well, that's it. there's no where else to go. if i understand what your saying, i can add a graphics card to my system? wow, that would be great; but, how would i know what kind to buy for a system so old? sorry for the denseness here, but like i stated earlier, i'm not good at mixing/matching things on computer systems... thanks!
is fine for 90% of all computing. you need to go to the emachine web site and look for updated drivers for your integrated video. if so all you need is for the updates to handle more resolution. if none are there, a new video card will work. it will plug into the pci or agp slot on the motherboard. all you do is move the monitor cable from the video port on the motherboard to the video port on the card. you will need to go into the bios and disable the &quot;on board&quot; video for the motherboard. then install the drivers for the video card. most mid-level graphics cards will fit 90% of all motherboards. but you'll need to do a little research here. go to a good pc store and find a salesperson. tell them what you have and what you want to do. i just bought one for my other home built and paid about 60 bucks for a nice card with 256 meg of video ram. more than adequate for my needs.
thanks for all your help. i appreciate it. i will try the emachine website first. if nothing there, i'll look into a new video card; doesn't sound too complicated....lol thanks again!
