first, my system specs: 3 ghz pentium 4 w/ht, 2 gigs ram, 160 gig hard drive, 256 meg nvidia geforce 6600 video card. now, what happens in these 2 games, half-life 2 and battlefield 2, regardless of video settings in the game, there are textures that are either missing, black, or flickering. lets say there is a couch. a cushion on the couch will be missing, or black or flickering, but, this only happens after the server changes maps, or if i cnrtl+alt+delete. this happens also in the same fashion with battlefield 2, regardless of in-game video settings. i tried both video games' support sections, and all they give me is generalized, automated solutions (run virus scan, defrag hard rive blahblahblah all useless and didnt help), so i figure i would come here for help. oh, and when i look at the setting through the desktop (right click, properties, video card tab), i look at the monitor settings, and the video card has detected my lcd monitor as a crt monitor. wtf is that all about?? anyway, any help would be great.
- remove/uninstall your current video drivers - install the latest nvidia drivers - if you've overclocked the card, set it back to its defaults - apply all game patches
i was instructed by both game companies to do that, still doesn't work. tehy also suggested doing some kind of ram check, so i just didn't bother and bought 2 new 1 gigabyte sticks of ram, still did it. i can't afford a new video card, and im sure there's some kind of fix for this, as i am sure that im not the only one hwo has had this happen.
if not that then u probably out of luck and need new video card.
+ turn vsync off if it is set to 'application controlled' in the nvidia drivers + if this is an agp card, turn agp fast writes off in the bios and in the agp section of the nvidia drivers
you probably overclocked your card without even knowing it. tearing and glitches like that usually occurs from people overcloking their card too much, or if your fan isn't cool enough for the card, so try tuning down your card memory and core clock speed down and see what happens...
is there a program or something that i download to do this?
i tried to replicate the problem again by cntrl+alt+deleting, and by waiting for the servers to change maps, and it hasnt happened since i turned down my speed a little. i took it from 300 core clock speed to 250 and memory clock speed from 500 to 400, and it is a little more laggy, but hey, i would take a little lag over terrible tearing and shearing any day. thanks for your help, and i hope this fixed it. if it didnt get fixed, i will report back to let you know.
i played the game again, and it did the same thing. it seems that the video speed didnt help for very long. as soon as i tried to play for the secong time, and the server swithced maps, it did it again. im going to try and get a screenshot and show you what's going on.
i thought it may have been a matter of bad luck last time, but it appears that making the card slower didnt help, and it is happening as frequently as before. i couldnt get a screeny, they dont seem to come out, they are all black, but anyway, see if theres a fix for this pls
it is in the bios at the beginning before the os is loaded, but before i turn off fast writes, i would like to know what it does, in detail if u could. thanks.
but what does it do? i dont want it to do something funny, andi have no diea what it does, so some detail would help. thanks.
fast-writes. in an ideal world fast writes support is a great thing to have ticked it allows the cpu to send data to the graphics card without having to go through ram, making it a far more optimal approach. that said in reality most benchmarks done on this have shown it to be of little actual benefit, in some cases performing slower, not mention on other systems it causes stability problems. as a result you might want to run a few benchmarks before choosing whether or not to leave this enabled or not. when grayed out fast-writes support will be automatically determined, though should you wish to force it be sure to tick this option & be sure you have set 4x agp & enabled fast writes in your bios. note on some systems this can cause stability problems. the fast writes and vsync suggestions came from other forums.
