i am thinking about upgrading from my 5-year old 19&quot; lcd monitor to something that would be better for both simple photo editing and also as my primary screen for watching dvd movies (no jokes please!). is there any reason why i shouldn't choose a 26&quot; or 32&quot; lcd television instead of a pc monitor? and would a graphics card do anything for me? i am not a pc gamer but notice that dvd scenes with motion can look choppy on my current monitor and i am not sure if it is the monitor's fault or the pc's built-in graphics card. thanks in advance.
if your dvd watching is producing noticeable choppiness, then it could be several reasons. it could be the video card, motherboard, cpu, or os. or even a combination of these. it might be the monitor if the refresh rate is too slow or the response speed of the monitor is too low. changing to a tv for a monitor would only make it worse if the system is at fault.
inexpensive tvs won't have the color range or accuracy of a good 22&quot; or 24&quot; monitor ($300 - $400). they'll also have a lower resolution (1366x768 or 1280x720 vs 1680x1050 or 1920x1200). if you'd also like to watch high def tv, consider this viewsonic with an hd tuner and high resolution:  choppy dvd playback could be due to a slow (by current standards) cpu. most new video cards offer decoding assist to help the cpu so they may help you in that respect.
this is really a no brainer a lcd is much better that a moniter. video card if your a gamer and like to watch movies on your computer [ i do ] upgrade it if you can afford it. rthe newer vc's are so much better you wont believe your eye's how much more detailed your games and movies will be. one more thing get a good sound card to make the expierance a whole lot better. i have a sound blaster x-fi high fidality extreme music with creative 5.1 surround sound and love it. /just a thought\ tregister2
my newest upgrade - a dell 24in monitor. powered by an asus x1900xtx video care (512mb) i have an asus p5w dh mobo w/2g ram and a digiwave cable tv card. tv never looked this good on my tube 32in. same with dvd's. if you can afford the 32 lcd - go for it. you will need a good video card that has hdmi output to get best pic. ted
i bought this superb 'lg m228wa 22&quot; tft monitor with hd tv yesterday from comet for 229.99. the idea really was just intended as an upgrade from my 19&quot; acer monitor (which was perfectly good anyway), i just felt it would be nice to have a bigger screen, but in all honesty i have just spent the last 11 hours glued to this thing with no squinting problems what-so-ever, i would normally by now be rubbing my eyes after spending that length of time on any computer. clearly without any question of doubt in my mind 'it is an absolutely fabulous monitor, it really is an amazing piece of kit, also functioning as an hd television. also very useful it has an enormous array of inputs and outputs, i can and will highly recommend this unit, it's certainly as good as, any dedicated monitor...five star rating to lg.
for both photo editing and dvd watching you want good contrast & color accuracy. for photos you probably want high resolution--i assume your current monitor if not wide screen is probably 1280x1024, so 720p is like a shortened version of that at 1280x720 (or many tvs are 1366x768). you can judge for yourself how much resolution you need but also keep in mind the same resolution on a larger screen will be more pixelated (at the same viewing distance). personally i would get a 24&quot; widescreen monitor, which is big enough to be good for movies in a small/medium room, and has a resolution of 1920x1200 which is like a slightly taller version of 1080p and is a pretty huge computer resolution. if you get a tv you may be less comfortable sitting close to it for normal computer use, and unless it's 1080p the resolution might be limiting. as for your graphics card, it would probably be a good idea to upgrade it but i would have to know more about your system to tell if that's what's causing the choppiness.
