i am a newbie.windows xp this is what i want to do...i want to put roxio 10 on the wd drive and then load my pictures on it too. i want to do all roxio jobs on this harddrive because when i do it on my c: drive it is painfully slow. can i do this? how can i install roxio on my wd drive? thanks
think about the slowski's.
can i transfer any program to the wd? or just the data? how about quicken? if i can how do i do this? thanks
when you install programs most offer a choice of where to install. but usb drives are not too quick compared to internals. nice place for a backup copy but not a true backup. think of usb drives as extended but a little slower storage space. bob
how difficult is it to install an internal drive? would this solve my problem?
the owner may not want to investigate this. i can't because you are not following the guidelines in our forum note. those words in red are there so i don't have to ask for that detail. bob
i don't understand?
much about the usb or the host machine. given only the details you elected to share so far all i can note is that you can't be given more than a generic answer because the details are not in your posts. i don't ask for such since that is asked for every time you make a post. that is, &quot;the words in red.&quot;
thanks for helping. my operating system is windows xp version 5.1. memory 261,124kb. where do i find the model number? what other info do you need? the external hard drive is wd passport 250 kb, usb 2.
such decals like dell, compaq, etc and a model number. same for the drive. those came with either sata or ide drives so the exact model number is called for. if these can't be found then it's a trip to a service counter to get it done. bob
dell dimension pentium 4 processor at 2.53 ghz, 256md ddr sdram 333 mhz, microsoft windows xp home, how difficult is it to install an internal hard drive. should a newbie attempt it? thanks
in fact i see diagrams on how to do this at dell.com are you looking there?
it will tell you almost everything you ever wanted to know about your pc. by the way....more ram would really help that pc run better. vapcmd
thank you very much for helping me!!
