hp mini 210-2072cl 32bit 1.66 ghz 2 gig ram. recently while on a newspaper discussion thread commenting on a post the group of keys to the right stopped working. that will be the p,0,-,/,&quot;, keys and maybe a couple more. i did a system restore and they started working fine until once again while i was online they just suddenly stopped working again. if i play with several at the same time the keys come back. weird. so i bought a wireless ps/2 in order to type without the worry but that defeats the purpose of having a netbook when i have to haul the ps/2 around. i was wondering if this problem was a software issue, a keyboard issue or a virus type problem. could i have picked up something on the internet or from one of the newspaper discussion threads? browser - firefox w/private mode and session only cookies on the exceptions list. clear cache on exit. ms windows defender. i'm ready to buy another laptop but rather not spend the money if i could fix this problem. anyone know of this keyboard issue? what to do? your advice is well appreciated - thanks!!
it's a matrix of wires and the keys cross this and if a line in the matrix fails, the keyboard does what you noted. it's usually one or two parts. the first is the keyboard and the second is the motherboard. you have proved it's not a software issue with the use of the external keyboard. bob
isn't it possible, just guessing, that something on the internet is triggering this keyboard malfunction and then later it goes away? i'm not all that savvy with this stuff but i know these online trojans and other garbage can do strange things once they get into the system registry. of course if that is not possible then i guess i should start looking at a new keyboard, right?
and in the laptop troubleshooting forum at the top you see advice and such on replacing such. i don't want to upset you but a person new to this sort of repair would think that and it's mostly they hope it is the internet. bob
i'll check out the forum, i've looked into swapping out the keyboard which is essentially very inexpensive and i saw a video on the swap - basically removing the battery, back plate, 3 screws, keyboard drops down to remove the ribbon and then reverse that whole operation - or i could spend $99 for the keyboard and installation with the keyboard running about $57. i'm also looking at buying a replacement laptop. saw the samsung np700z5c-s01ub at best buy for $999.99 seems to have very impressive features but there are no reviews on it here at cnet. so i'm skeptical at this point. i don't move along too quickly when it comes to computers. besides i have a logitec wireless keyboard to use when this one malfunctions. thanks again for all the advice!!
