one day, when i started my computer, it took me to the screen that says &quot;ur computer did not turn off sucessfully.......&quot;. i tried every option there and when i start windows normally or last known good configuration, it reboots when its suppose to show the window xp logo. i could not do a system recover as a blue screen popped up. sometimes, my computer wouldn't even open and it would keep on beeping. i replaced the hard drive and hoped it would work. when i replace the hard drive, everything worked fine until it randomly restarted again. i turned it on and thought it was no problem. a few days later, the same continuos beeping noise came up. it would work from time to time, but there would be times where it wouldn't work. i have a gateway and a amd processor running on window xp. if u need anymore information, just tell me. could this be a virus? so any ideas????
get you hands on a linux copy of a &quot;live boot os&quot; of the linux version like knoppix. make the bootable cd which is then a live cd. use that to boot and it will run from the cd alone, play with it and see if the problem goes away. if it does, you may have an os or s/w problem with your original hd. if the problem comes back, more than likely you have a h/w problem. the sources of such maybe, the mtrbd., ram, or psu(power supply). the mtrbd. may have the &quot;bad caps&quot; which you inspect for bugling, leaky, or blown capacitors. the ram if more than one, reseat them at least or swap them around or try new ones. if psu, then only a known good one of similar wattage will do or even new more capable higher wattage replacement unit. all these problems maybe interrelated or not, but it isn't uncommon if a true power problem to render other componets to go flaky or weird until they outright fail due to bad power. the above problems may result from an older system as age comes into play. if you haven't yet, at least open case and clean out the dust bunnies. further, leave cover off and see if that helps at all. tada -----willy
it's obviously hardware fault according to your description. tell us what the beeps are like and we might be able to tell you exactly what's wrong. for instance if it makes 1 long beep and then 3 short beeps it's the graphics card. continious long beeps with 1 second silence could mean memory etc.
it is a continuous beep.
