i am trying to install a samsung 320gb (hd322hj) new sata hard drive. my abit motherboard (vt7) has the provisions for this drive however the bios will not recognize that it is there. i have tried updated bios and flashing. i am trying to install as the only drive with windows xp. any a help or suggestions would be appreciated.
tells you when to press f6 and feed the diskette with the sata driver. also note that you need at least the sp1 cd to be able to use such a large hard disk. the original windows xp won't work. kees
does it matter that the bios will not find the hard drive? i have done the f6 route and selected the sata driver install however when the time comes to install xp, i get a message that says there are no drives to install to.
however as today's bios is not standardized you have to search and scratch how to enable the sata ports and (your choice) use or not to use ide emulation... bob
how do i get the bios to recognize the new drive? seems like i have tried everything. i am out of ideas...
bios, the bios must be up to date and the drive must be jumpered properly. re the bios:  vapcmd
thanks all for the feedback, i guess im just going to have to be an ide drive.
or drive jumpering, changing to an ide will not fix the problem. said another way...if it won't recognize a 320 sata hdd it won't recognize a 320gb ide either. did you try jumpering the drive to sata 1.5 vs 3.0? vapcmd
i did try changing the speed thru jumper setting and software settings. i never knew if either action actually did anything but neither made the drive be recognized by the bios. i gave up on the sata drive and ordered an ide drive i hope it works but now im nervous about it. at 60 bucks each plus another 50 for some memory, i am starting to think i should have just bought a new computer.
320gb sata..there's little chance it will recognize a 320gb ide either. can you return the sata or perhaps use it in an external enclosure ? in any event ... good luck and keep us posted. vapcmd
the bios recognized the 320gb ide drive right away. still dont know why the sata drive did not work since the board had all provisions for it but oh well, pc is up and running now and new egg gave me refund on the sata drive.
