i want to purchase a new all in one printer (fax not necessary) for a student. i want the student to be able to print wirelessly or by attaching usb cable to her macbook notebook. i have read some reviews on cnet that state you cannot have both conditions in operation at same time - reviews of canon mp620 (the printer i am interested in) revealed the following comments. a more troublesome issue is that you have to set the printer to connect by either wireless or wired network. allowing both is not an option. that means you can't have the printer set to work on a wired network, and then connect to it with an adhoc wireless connection from, say, your notebook, on an occasional basis. are there any all in one printers that allow both wired and wireless hookup? i do not need fax capability.
if you want a printer that will satisfy your needs,i'm afraid it will be very expensive,so it depends on how much you are prepared to pay.one alternative would be to get 2 cheap printers,one wired & the other wireless,but before you decide which make to buy,check the price & availability of the ink cartridges.i made the mistake of buying a lexmark x3580 all in one,the cartridges are never in stock at the usual outlets,(currys.pc world &dixons)so i am forced to use compatible ones,or fill them myself,this compromises the performance of the printer.mine fails to print some of the lines,because of allignment problems,so don't buy a lexmark.one very usefull way of getting round printing problems is to install a pdf converter,there's lot's of good ones available as &quot;freeware&quot;from cnet,i use cute pdf writer,you can compose multiple pdf pages with the merge files option.and then save them to your computer for sending,when pressing print,select the pdf writer instead of your default printer,and that's it.don't forget,look after the pennies,& the pounds will lok after themselves.good luck;
so off to the store you go. take all computer and printer make and model numbers (some times series, as well) with you along with the make and model number of the modem/switch you have. a pc shop would be better then a large discount store. ask many intelligent questions before you buy and explain your needs clearly and repeatedly. make sure it will work for you before you buy, well at least as best you can be sure. matching brand names on products is best. (example: netgear modem = netgear printer server) issues here are compatibilities, they must all work together. btw, connectivity can be a nightmare. good luck. this thread untracked.
go to walmart and buy a kodak printer. black cartridges are $9.95 and color are 13.95
i agree with the suggestion of a kodak all in one, i bought the esp7 and love it. i had canon ink jet printers previously and my son got a hp with his laptop, ink for the hp all in one brand is very expensive and when the ink ran out he stopped using it, the previous canon's were very expensive for ink too. i bought an inexpensive brother laser for b&w and the kodak esp for anything color and also printing double sided. am very happy with both my kodak and brother.
