after instaling a maxtor one touch 4 plus 750 and the software i have issues. i had to reset my folders they were not set up the way i had them, (when i go to open any off my drives the search pannel comes up on the left) i use to open my drives and go to my items, how can i change that back to when i open the drives it will go to the items and so i do not have to seach for them. so far a nightmare with this drive i got today. thank you for any help: wendell h
explorer has some limitations as to how many places it will remember. if i recall you can extend this. try this link. see item 2 at
all the rest off my main folder or ok my documents, my network, control pannel. when i go to open one off the internal or external drives even c drive it opens onother folder, instead off using the my computer folder to open one off the drives. what is wrong has somthing to do with the my computer folder even though what happened made changes to my other folder that i already corrected. wendell h
read
thank very much i got it. i also uninstalled the software for my maxtor one touch 4 750 i do not need all that extra features i just need a external drive. it took me 4 hours to transfer my downloaded movies from one my first external to the new external. and i saw and extra set off movies and i deleted them and then i did not see the first set. i have to start all over again. thank you very much: wendell h
sticking with it. i didn't quite see your issue the first time. so when you tried it and said &quot;nope&quot; i thought of the other issue. best of luck, bob
i can not save files anymore or make changes, i click save as and what ever i am trying to save disapears with out making the change. i start a new document and i can not save it. that software i installed sure did a # on my computer i would like to get it fixed instead of reinstalling windows which use to be my first option. help please: wendell h
1. use system restore. 2. make a new post in the os forum that matches yours. hope this helped. bob
