i recently bought a ecs k755a motherboard with built in sound card. i'm not getting any audio and every thing seems to be working. any advice on what to check? it's driving me crazy! thanks
frankly, you have a warranty issue. but check that the bios is updated (new doesn't mean it's current!) then that the onboard sound is enabled and then the more usual issues. people try to move a winodws install over. this rarely works. installation of motherboard, usb and sound drivers are next. bob
i've found ecs mtrbds. trouble at times for no reason at all. your model was a hot one as it was cheaply offered when it came out and very affordable against other brand offering. ok, i suggest you use the mtrbd. install cd and load the drivers for the audio portion. in some cases a &quot;newer&quot; driver is available from ecs support website get it for your model(verify). don't rely on the os to provide the driver as the mtrbd. driver that os is usually a better install, but if it works, it works. if after all is said and done, it still fails, check the device mgr., are there any red/yellow flags? if so, reload driver from the device line item to correct. make sure also, that the &quot;audio&quot; is enabled under bios area and/or proper connection is being made. also, in the os, check to see if the audio hasn't been &quot;muted&quot;. those are areas to look at... good luck -----willy
your k7s5a board uses the ac 97 audio codec, and to add further details to the previous replies, you need to enter the bios cmos setup utility features setup page and check that the onboard sound is enabled. this can be entered by pressing the delete key on boot-up, usually. also the motherboard drivers need to be installed, as advised.
hi &quot;cvmallory&quot;, i hope i did not misread your mobo code (?k7s5a). anyhow, i have the latter mobo in one machine and like yourself have had several (soluble) problems with it: 1. i could not get sound to work with win98. 2. when upgrading to minme, the os did not have the appropriate driver but the cd that came with the mobo installed sound without problem. 3. i could not get it to work with linux mandrake 9.1 and 9.2, but 10,0 had the right driver. cheers eric
i have been using the ecs k7s5a pro version 5 for a while with no problems that weren't of my own making. this is what i suspect here. i have win 98se and linux fedora core 1. neither have given me any problems. you have to install the drivers from the mobo disc for everything, just like any other mobo. this includes cmedia sound and usb 2.0. they are all on the disc. browse your disc, think about what you are looking at. post back if you have any more problems. good luck. chuck
i have a dell p3/733 optiplex gx 110 with the same problem. i read that i need drivers for this and if i posted the following info,you could direct to these drivers. the seriel # is d5ck201. the motherbd id# is 4c4c4544-4310b435-c0c44b80-3130324f. this computer is running windows98,version# 4.10.1998. my bios is id# fc 01 00.
you did not mention whose sound driver is on the motherboard. for example, mine in soundmax. make sure you have the latest drivers for the sound and for your operating system. also check to make sure that you have placed the plug into the correct jack if you are running sound to an amplifier or outside source. also check to see if your sound card offers analog versus digital output. sometimes, it makes a difference. try checking your system within windows and the hardware and device manager to see if the operating system says that the sound card is working properly. if all else fails try re-installing your motherboard utilities (usually supplied on a cd with the motherboard). it should contain the install or driver for your sound card. delete the present one first, then re-install. good luck.
check to see if the sound driver is installed
the answer may lie in your bios. to check this, you need to reboot and click delete when boot-up starts - this will get you into the bios. when you see the menu on the blue screen, use the down arrow key to move the cursor to the third(?) item from the top - advanced chipset features, then press enter. on the new menu list, scroll down until you see an item marked onchip sound. if it says it is disabled then select it by pressing enter, and select auto. having done this, press f10 then yes to save and exit. boot-up will then continue and you should have sound. hope this helps.
