i was all happy with a low cost netgear print server until i saw it needs windows or vista. what would be mac-compatible please? thanks!
i'd use theirs.
using theirs would be fine. they don't make one. we are talking about something that plugs into a parallel port and connects a printer to an ethernet network. i had one that connected through the appletalk port, but no longer works because of snow leopard. if you know for a fact that apple makes one, i will be as delighted as surprised. best, - bill
i missed that detail in your first post. also, try our other mac specific forums and especially the one with the sticky note about printing issues in the new land.
i found a post over there that referred me to netgear, but it's not compatible. i've sent netgear a request for a tech note to see if i can configure with a pc and run on a mac. i can't think of a good reason why the os would be a problem for an ethernet converter, but it's probably more than that. thanks. best, - bill
one is about printing in the new land. sorry but i haven't seen a parallel port printer since about 1999. i can see why makers are not making print servers anymore. bob
thanks. i'm aware of those posts, and they don't help at all. i'm still hoping someone will have an answer to the question i asked. i did ask it for a reason and did know what i was talking about. none of the posts come close to helping me except one on the absence of appletalk. i'm not sure what the implications are, which is part of what i'm trying to find out. hey, it's an old printer from 2000. but it works very very well and is overkill these days when i print less than 1% of the documents i generate. not about to get a new one unless i figure out that the price is close to what it will cost to get this working again. i think the netgear doodad will work if i can configure it with my pc, but surely there is one with mac software. by the way, i have run through 3 inkjet printers while this one soldiered on with no problems whatever. thanks for the comments. hope someone else will chime in though. with all these replies, i am concerned people will figure my question was answered. should i repost, you think? i guess that sounds ungrateful, and i'm not. i'm just frustrated.
your top post did have an answer. but later we discover you had other than the run of the mill printer so what we all can use do not apply to your situation. good luck in your search. bob
