using bs dsl and a hp pc with amd. i need to buy 2 items. no tv involved. a video card. the video card does not need to capture the video to burn it to digital format to the hard drive. key words: play a vcr tape 1. video capture card or any video card, which will allow the connection from a vcr to play a video tape on the pc's monitor. 2. vcr with video cables to connect to a video card or video capture card to play a video tape on the pc's monitor. no tv involved. key words: play a vcr tape thank you from new orleans
take a look at pinnacle systems usb video capture cards. they start at $100 and up depending on the features. i like the movie box plus at $150 for the better features and much better software. at the least you can capture video to your computer with any of these and play it back once in. the better cards will let you edit your video for a more polished look. you can also google &quot;video capture&quot; for more options. these can be found at best buy, circuit city or almost anywhere computer related devices are sold. check out pinnaclesys.com for more info. as for #2, almost any vhs machine can hook up to these cards. what worked best for me was two things. #1. get a capture card that supports s-video and get a vhs machine that also has that option. #2 get a good quality cable! this will ensure a higher quality of video on your computer. i hope you find this of some help. good luck!
the pinnacle sounds good. right now i have the pinnacle studion 10 to capture the pc cam mini tape then edit it. the pinnacle capture card will go right along with it. i have never bought one and did not want to spend the money until i had some input. thanks for your help on that
no problem. we're here to help!
while you are in the helping mood, i bought two notebooks this past week, both are about 1.7 mgz speed, 512ram, 80 gig hd. is the cpu speed too slow to work with my cam corder or home made movies for youtube ? thanks, the cajun crawfish are on the way.
my old laptop was an acer ter-600 or pentium 3 at 600 mhz. you have more than that and i was able to edit videos. bob
if you have win xp you should be ok with 512 ram, but if vista i would crank it up to 1 gb if not 2 gb. i run 1 gb on win xp and can still use my computer while its doing its thing. you might consider some external storage for your media. on average it take 13 gb for one hour of raw video. some crawfish etoufee would be sweet!
