hi my problem is with my seagate 1tb expansion drive.when im using this hard drive to watch films on my tv or media box it shuts off within the first 10 mins (not exactly 10 mins could be 7.43 mins ect).this hard drive does not turn off and works fine when its plugged into my computer.i have done tests on seatools, hd tune pro and window error checker for bad sectors, problems ect and all seems fine. i dont think its a problem with seagates power saving mode but not 100% additional info this hard drive is not just powered by the computer ,it had to be plugged into a power socket for power.it is usb 3.0. i only really use this hard drive for watching films on my tv and media box
but the number of posts about usb 3.0 drive troubles tells me you want this drive in a usb 2.0 case, then try again. bob
you should check the tv setting and see if it has any for &quot;idle&quot; time or some time limit, set to never or disregard. it maybe treating the device attached as not being polled and thus times out. if the timeout period is always the same. this can be called &quot;sleep mode&quot; as well. understand these newer tv's have alot of options now, so don't rule it out. this is on top of any other areas to check. tada -----willy
hi thanks for your reply.the problem doesn't just happened with the tv it also happens with my media box and anything really that is compatible with usb and can play films.the problem is with the hard drive.
i'd try this drive in some boring usb 2.0 case after checking one last time for any sleep feature. bob
since you seem sure it is the ext. hd then consider the usb 3.0 side of things. i pretty sure that your media box and tv aren't usb 3.0 ready, it is the ext. hd that has to supply this for usb 2.0 status. on this regard, i think it fudges and finally winks out. in other words, it loses the link it requires or deems necessary. if you did *nothing* to prep the ext. hd for use and thus accepted as is, that maybe the crux of your problem. it may require once you eliminate everything else to allow either the media box or tv to format, or pc to format using the typical format command. as always, i still check the specs of all devices and see where they may differ or how it stands. so far, i don't see in the .docs how it relates to tv use, it's more geared to pc use. afterall, even if compatible some issues still arise. this link maybe informative:  *note* it doesn't directly say for tv use, though usb 2-3.0 is supported. check the fine print under last table. tada -----willy
software seagate drive settings software to allow the user to change the sleep time, toggle the lights, and run drive diagnostics on a windows computer. learn more........ from link:  hope this helps -----willy
