maxtor shared storage drives&gt; i have one of these that i need to replace the hard drive in and it is out of warranty. has anyone had success with doing this? all i get is a solid yellow light and the maxtor software will not find it on the network. i've tried resetting the drive and that doesn't work either. i've also tried formatting the with ntfs and with no partitioning at all and still no go. suggestions?
about holding the power button. also try updating the flash software. if not, the unit is dead. bob
i already tried holding the power button for 5 seconds and resetting it. does anyone know if there is something that needs to be reset if the cover is removed?
i didn't write about it. can you connect to it's web server and do that step? i don't recall you telling. bob
well, when you run the maxtor setup program and it searches the network for the drive, it never finds it. and this is just a simple home network with a linksys router/switch and dhcp enabled. i'm assuming it has to be formatted in some fashion for the box to recognize the drive...maybe fat32?
it's either that or the box is dead. what happened to make you replace the drive? bob
just wanted to upgrade the drive. it was working fine until i put the new (known good) drive in. i've replaced the drives on a lot of the maxtor external drives and never had a problem before. just this time on the shared storage drive. the only thing i can guess is that the internal os needs the drive in a specific format before it will recognize it.
with the old drive, see what format that was in. i would use ranish partition manager to look at it. or even to create the new drive in the same partition type and format. i wonder if you duplicated the jumper settings? in closing, some of these boxes have strict limits on hard disk sizes such as 127gb limits or others. the makers rarely reveal exactly what these are but we can take clues if they never offered over 127gb. bob
i have the same issue. i have put the drive into my pc and it saw it as unallocated space. i then mounted it. and so far i have tried everything to fix it with no luck. it just will not take again. maxtor said it had to be an ext3 partition so i put it into linux and formatted it back. then placed it into the drive and still it will not recognize the drive even after a reset. can someone help i know i must be able to get it back to life. i tried this
im having same problem. anyone figure a way?
if the drive won't reinit it's either back to maxtor or we replace the drive housing.
i have data still on my drive, i wanted to make a clone backup of the drive so i put the drive in a computer which had nothing but another blank drive tried to boot up with a drive cloning program which wouldn't recognize the drive anyway and ended up shutting it down. from there the drive nolonger want to boot. the drive pass all diagnosis test, and spins up ok. i now trying to find a way that i can plug this drive into a os that will recognize the data on it.
just incase anyone asks it was norton's ghost i tried to use.
-&gt; look up g4u also did you try linux to see if it recognizes the file system? bob
the drive uses the reiserfs format. it's a linux based filesystem and please, under no circumstances, try to use it under a windows environment (as in hooking the drive directly to the ide connector). windows will attempt the read and after failing ~255 times, for reasons unknown, it does something to the first couple of sectors of the drive that renders it unreadable once you replace the drive in it's housing. you must use a *nix based system to reformat the drive, and then reinstall the drive. hope this helps a little.
yes have tried a few linux systems now, knoppix, suse, and kubuntu. closes i can get is an error of permission accesses denied. linux states you do not have enough permission to read file :///dev/disk/by-id/ata-maxtor_6b300r0_b61zdsbh unsure how to bypass this
reckon this may have been a contributor, most likely something microsoft incorporated to drives that don't follow microsoft ways that basically says if i cant read you, noone will. i call it a microspit.
i couldn't tell exactly what the &quot;error message&quot; was. these forums don't have great formatting so help us out by putting such in quotes. also, i wonder what happens if you google that error. bob
