hello everyone, i have been using my p4 - 2.4 ghz, 512mb ram, and 80gb hard disk and a 24!bit sound balaster with 5.1 speaker computer for quite 2 years from now. i have also recently added a wireless router to my existing broadband connection. some times in my house all the electrical applicances ( except the normal lighting ) fuse off... do u think i should be investing on a ups power supply....will it help make my computer's life longer than normal thanks in advance ... surut
i use a backup ups so that i can finish what i'm working on (mine lasts for about 45 minutes), save my data, and shut down normally. however, i don't think it has much impact on the overall life of my computer. while a 'normal' shutdown is best, any damage that may occur from an instantaneous loss of power would be so slight i doubt it would cause any noticable damage down the road. (provided such isn't a common occurrance where you live.) now, a surge protector capable of handling your pc's load is very important, as the ~$50 product will sacrafice itself to save your $500+ computer. that translates to a very good investment. just make sure that the one you get has ethernet and/or coaxal protection, as a power surge isn't limited to power cords. also, make sure that everything connected to your computer physically is also protected by the surge protector, as once again, electricity isn't picky about how it fries your computer as long as it gets the job done. hope this helps, john
the whole purpose of a ups is to give you time or &quot;auto mode&quot; shutdown in an orderly fashion. in the process saves your work and maybe some grieve. besides a decent ups, look also into surge protectors as well, even cheap single ac types do better than nothing, besides a strip protector. since, you already know you've some electrical problems, it good insurance. spend whatever you can afford, but you afford to lose data and/or rebuild data, etc. back to a point you were? answer that, gives you some practical guidelines. good luck -----willy
i'm having problems with ups maker and the lifetime insurance they offer. i have a somewhat fried computer from a blackout. i can tell you a $100-150 one will not work as a $40-50 surge protecter. i won't but a cheap ups again it's a waste of money. the reason why is the cheaper ups/battery backups do not protect from sine wave problems, although rare these can & usually occur with a blackout, brownout, or spike. these can kill a computer chips quick. also cheaper ups is not good for brownout or spikes, so if you buy a cheaper ups you are buy a false sense of security and a fight should you get zapped. oh, watch the wireless in a thunderstorm lightning can get you if are close enough to a strike. i got zapped, so good luck
