trying to rule out power supply and video card , before motherboard. i followed instructions in another thread about measuring voltages with the computer on. the 12v and 5v rail checked out ok. i was not able to find an aux connector. is there a 3v aux with my computer? e machines t6420 athlon 64 3400+ here are the symptoms: on a few occasions, my computer would kick into a mode with the fans racing after i walked away for an hour or two. (had to hold power button in for 10 seconds to turn off) sometimes the screen saver would be frozen also and i detected sounds. i turned off the hibernate mode thinking that might be causing this glitch but it recurred again with the fans racing. the last time this happened i turned the computer back on and the fans stayed in this racing mode and the screen remained black. (won't boot} the video is nvidea geforce 6100 and i assume this is built in as there are no other cards. could this be why i have no monitor (amber light is on) yet monitor works with my other computer? would putting another video card in the open pci slot bypass the built-in video? thank you
sounds more like a mobo problem to me. have you tried clearing your cmos and booting from default settings (i doubt if it will help but if its a bad mobo there's not much you can do besides replace it).
your fans run on 12v. the 3.3v are for the processor and memory. look for &quot;bleeding&quot; capacitors. you psu is probably not the problem. and neither is your video card. sooooooo.... guess that leaves the mobo. sorry. and life goes on... jack
how do i check for 3.3v aux as i don't see a connector like that to test? what exactly am i looking for with a bleeding capacitor. is this a visual check, and what will you see?
pictures galore...
thanks r. proffitt, i found no leakage or expansion so at least visually they look ok. this board is 1 yr. old though i understand it can happen with new ones too. how do i check for the 3.3v to the cpu as that's the one voltage i haven't been able to check. in another thread, someone posted a link with pictures showing how to check these voltages but it failed to discuss the details about the aux if mine actually has one? there are 2 connectors from the power supply to the board. how would you know if it's the cpu or the motherboard if that is the problem?
how would you know if it's the cpu or the motherboard if that is the problem? sadly you need a good board to test the cpu on. power supplies are thankfully plentiful at the shop bench. -&gt; about the other items. be sure to check the cmos battery voltage too. on some boards if it's too low, the board never comes out of reset. bob
battery voltage was 3.3 for a cr 2032. after doing this i read you need to write down settings which i didn't do. of course the system is not booting up anyway and the monitor is blank.
