i need to do some crowd sourcing. i currently have a dir 655 that is dying. the problem seems to be the power cord. i thought about trying to replace only the cord but, we all know that once something like a router starts getting hit with electrical issues its only a matter of time before it dies altogether. so my question then becomes, which router to replace it with. ordinarily, i'd stick with what's worked for me. unfortunately, i don't have that kind of money right now. there is also a timing factor that keeps me from going online for a really good deal. i literally have about $ 50 to spend and i'm in a small town with a wal-mart and a radio shack to serve my tech needs. so i'm pretty much stuck picking from three routers. netgear wgr614 wireless-g 54mbps broadband router netgear wgr614 wireless-g 54mbps broadband router cisco linksys wireless n router, wrt120n belkin surf n300 wireless router now,, i have to say the belkin is one i'm not really interested in because, i've never ever had a good experience with them. however, i'm willing to be fair. the only thing that bothers me about the cisco is, it claims to be wireless n 2.0 but they aren't willing to say what the top speed of the wireless radio is anywhere on the box. as for the net gear, i've had a hit or miss relationship with them. had a great hub once, but also had a horrible router once. the last thing i'll say is, obviously , i want to get the best overall router for the money and while the wireless is certainly important in that regard, right now everything is wired, so i just need something to get me by until i can get a better router. in other words, something that doesn't need power cycled every other day. so what do you think?
you are pretty much limited if you are going to buy from a retail store in a small town and not buy online. i would not buy a g router any more. eventually all your other equipment will get upgraded to n and then you have to upgrade your router again. i suspect n will be the best you can get for many years to come. as far as speed goes in the short run they will exactly what you have today since you will need to run in g mode unless all your pc's have n already. in the future when you upgrade your n speed will be based on which features both the router and the nic cards support. most say they will do 150m and some say 300m. your limiting factor is the internet so it does not really matter a lot. these numbers are all best case numbers anyway. buy the router for the other features, firewall, url filter etc etc. the radio part are pretty much the same. i would stay wired once it works it works... until the hardware fails.
let's ditch/scratch that one without further ado. the dlr 655 at  seems to gain favor in reviews and owners. if you need that. my older wnr2000 and similar 3700 run for months without power cycling. that 614 is well known for it's lockups when folk try to run torrents. but go figure. bob
well, you can pick either or. maybe the prices are a little bit different but it's really up to you. i have the cisco linksys wireless router for a long time now and so far it didn't give me no problem. i really like cisco linksys wireless routers.
