i have an hp deskjet 5550 that prints acceptable photos with its regular color/bw ink. when i put in the special photo ink cartidges, the print quality takes a nosedive. suggestions? thank you
use the photo paper plus tell the printer driver about the change to cartidge and paper. bob
this all along, and it has made no difference. is this something i should ask hp about since the printer and scanner are theirs?
sorry, but the printers here seem just fine. but then again, i'm pretty stock, latest drivers for printer, video, etc. bob
went to their online chat and found what the problem was.
what solved the problem? standeb
the technician and i finally figured it out. since i hadn't been getting good printing copies using the photo ink, i thought the cradle that came in the box might be something i was supposed to be using. that turned out to be a &quot;holder&quot; for the cartridge when it is not being used. eventually, i was steered to a page which explained the correct combination of cartridges to use. 57 is the color cartridge, whether it be regular or photo. the other cartridge uses a 56 or 58. i had to make sure that i was using the 57 photo and the 58 photo grey rather than just the black and white cartridge or the photo grey with just the color cartridge. still, i don't see that using the photo ink makes a much better photo print than using regular ink. still, perhaps the photo inks last longer.
earmonivergh; hi thank you for the reply. i think that you may at some point in time want to try a better printer. i have had two epson printers epson stylus c42 and now epson stylus c65. the life of the c42 expired and the c65 although i got some problems installing the same, it works really good. the reproduction is fantastic. i am happy with it, although i need to have a printer that would give me 18 b/w's per minute and 15 colour per minute. having said this, you will not doubt understand that i will be going for an epson. you will get quality for your money. i have tried hp and canon. none compares. visit epson website. standeb.
