i've configured, but not purchased an hp d4100e. i want to use the pc at home to play games, watch dvds and watch tv with a samsung 970 19'' lcd monitor. i also plan on downloading and listening to music on an mp3 player and editing/watching video from a dv camcorder. i run mcafee virus scan and personal firewall in the background, but might switch to norton. i'll be running and using msn messenger, browsing the internet, and playing card games, minesweeper, scanning documents etc while doing some of the above. the game i play is 3d (runescape), but so far i haven't played any new ones like doom3, but i might in the future. here is the configuration: microsoft(r) windows(r) xp media center edition amd athlon(tm) 64 x2 4200+ dual-core - 2.2ghz 1gb ddr-400mhz dual channel sdram (2x512) free upgrade from 80gb to 160gb sata hard drive lightscribe supermulti 16x dvd+/-r/rw dr 9-in-1 memory card reader, 2 usb 2.0, 1394,s-video ( i had to choose the card reader if i wanted mce) 802.11 b/g wireless lan pci card single ntsc tv tuner with pvr, fm tuner, remote 256mb ddr ati radeon x 1600xt, tv-out and dvi sound blaster audigy 4, 24-bit advanced hd audio hp wireless keyboard, wireless optical mouse am i wasting money on things i don't need, or not spending enough on things i do? i'm not sure if i'd be capable of installing items rather than have hp preinstall for me. aside...their speakers seemed more expensive than what i might find at compusa, so i didn't add any into the above. would 30 watt ones be a good size to look for? thanks in advance for anyone willing to offer their advice.
the only things you might want to consider... is 1gb ram enough for your pc needs with vista right around the corner ? and how do you plan to back up the system to minimize your downtime if the hard drive dies or hiccups ? re the ram and the right amount to have in your pc....checkout places like tomshardware.com, anandtech.com, xbitlabs.com, etc. they've got some good info on the issue how much ram do i need ? it's usually easier to go for the amount of ram upfront than have to upgrade by adding later. re backup....check though some of the posts in storage forum as there are some discussions on partitioning, backup strategies, backup software, etc.. again it really depends how critical your access is on a day to day basis. let us know how it works out. regards, vapcmd
i'll definitely check out those sites. i hadn't even thought about backups or vista. is vista something that i will need to upgrade to when it comes out?
don't know if this would apply, but might help in your decision.  tom
i read the article and it seems that i might need to change the power supply. is it difficult to change power supplies? hp doesn't offer that upgrade and i haven't ever opened a computer.
that requires an answer from someone way smarter than i. did hp say what their psu was? someone will get back to you, just be patient. tom
i own the compaq sa4000t sold around a year previous. basically same design, except p4. the psu isn't all that bad, but i'd expect a regular atx psu to fit just fine. the case is huge. compared to the emachines case, this is really bigger. full-sized atx.
difficult and time consuming to perform...and you won't do it. nothing i hate more than spending time looking for cds, product keys, installing the os, the drivers, the apps, setting preferences and all the rest when if i backed i could have simply restored the os and the apps in less than 15 minutes from an image. re vista...you don't have to but at some i think you'll want to. you've got a great 64-bit cpu which when coupled with a 64-bit os (vista) and 64-bit apps (soon to follow . . . some 64-bit games already here i'm told)and that makes things just go faster.
and if you did...don't belive heavier duty pss are optionally available with a hp systems. you'd have to go to generic clone or a custom specialty box builder. the systems in the article are running two high-end sli video cards that pull 250-300 watts...you're nowhere near that.
because, you're right, hp doesn't offer to install higher power supply units. i found the specs on this pc and it comes with 400 watts of power, so after your comments about the video cards i am more than happy to leave things alone in the power department.
i read a lot of the storage forum discussions and some of the other sites you mentioned for backup information and came to the conclusion that i'd use norton ghost to backup to a notebook that i plan on buying once i'm done with the pc configuration etc. it seems that i'll be able to backup the pc to the notebook and the notebook to the pc using a wireless network that i intend on figuring out. however, it seems that i wouldn't need to buy norton ghost if i had the windows vista instead, as the review i read for vista says that it will have a super backup program. do you know if vista is coming out soon or are new operating systems easy and relatively cheap to upgrade to if you already have a windows operating system installed?
you might want to check out kc@kc-computers.com i am having my 3rd system built by him. you tell him how you want to use it, and it is built to your needs. top reviews at  for past 10 years. decent prices.
i'll take a look at their site and compare prices etc. thanks
