i am presently using an hp 1355 all-in-one printer. i also use nero as my jewel box and label printer programme. i was told that there is an all-in-one printer that will also print a label on a cd or dvd. i have so far only found one - an epson. i understand that epson printers are a little on the thirsty side and only capable of using small capacity, and expensive, ink cartridges. does anybody have any suggestions about the most econimical one to use, and what the price range - preferably euros - might be? many thanks, in advance, for taking the time to answer this. colinito
here's the article about this. &quot;digital data preservation program cd and dvd archiving quick reference guide for care and handling &quot; ... &quot;do not: 1. touch the surface of the disc. 2. bend the disc 3. use adhesive labels. &quot; more at  bob
bob, many thanks for your reply. i am aware of the details contained in your link. this is the reason that i am enquiring if anyone has any knowledge of a printer that will print the chosen label directly on to the cd or dvd, and not on to a label to stick onto the cd or dvd. the reason, also, that i mentioned the details that i did about the printer that i have and the programme that i have been using to print the items. kind regards colinito
yes it worked. since it worked i didn't think much about ink or such costs since it was cheaper than sending it out to be done. today i'm thinking about lightscribe the next time round. bob
i have been using the canon pixma printers. most can print to cd/dvd on white printable disk. i currently have the pixma mp800. absolutely brilliant.
hi, i use a lexmark x5470 it does the job fine, however although lables are made for cd/dvd's disc they should not be used as it requires skill in putting them on you should not touch the surface of the disk or even bend it, unless you use a label maker i would stay well clear. you could end end damageing the drive. more money. regarding the ink i think most of us have the same problem inks that are far to exspensive, these manufacturers have cornered the market and kept the prices very high as they know we need them. un like lexmark x5470 the epsom printers have compatibles available i owned a epsom cx3200 all in one the original cartridges where cost 23.00 on average each that 50.00 plus for 2 cartridges. a friend in the computer world gave me some cartridges made buy pro-jet and tiatanuim they cost around 5.00 per pack of two 1 color 1 black even i could not spot the difference so it would pay to hunt around the internet for a postal supplier.
i have a cannon pixma ip4200 it has a seperate slide that you just slip the disc into, attach and print. i'm in australia but i'm guessing wherever you are they would have a cannon that could do the same
bob, thanks for your reply. i 'toyed' with the idea of lightscribe, but i think i might have to buy a new printer / lightscribe printer to do this. nero used to have it as a download, but at the time i only had the dvd writer and copier which could not be used with lightscribe. regards colinito
robbo2512, thanks for your reply. tha canon pixma sounds like the one i am looking for. i will enquire about it. regards, colinito
chrishandyman, thanks for your reply. i'll check out the epson, but i think the ink is a little expensive. as i said, i have a friend who has an epson and it needs to 'go to the well' rather frequently! i have had a few problems with stick on labels, which is why i posted my question. (i've also had a problem answering more than one post at a time! the forum won't accept this, so i have to exit and reenter to answer each post!) regards, colinito
shaz53, thanks for the information in your reply. i have already been advised about the canon pixma, so i will definitely check it out. i live a little bit north of you in southern spain!&quot; - even so i should be able to get a reply about it when i check, completely as an aside, i spent some time in australia back in the 50's for a while and again in the 60's. down the east coast, visiting the g.b reef, townsville, cairns. and a survival course lasting 6 weeks from rockhampton down to gympie and on to brisbane. enjoyed surfers paradise etc etc) regards, colinito
