i'm putting together my first pc pretty soon, and am trying to figure out which type of processor to go for. i'm not looking for top of the line gaming monster, but i am trying to build a solid machine that will keep me playing new games (fallout 3, prince of persia, left 4 dead, etc) for a couple years. so i'm trying to decide, should i go with a tried and true dual core processor such as the intel core 2 duo 3.16 (  ) or perhaps one of the newer quad cores with a lower clock speed? i'm a little hesitant since recommended gaming specs are already hitting 2.6ghz, which will be my starting speed if not less if i go with a quad core. but will the extra cores make the difference? also, i'm going with intel on this one just because it's familiar and i'd prefer to stay on fairly stable ground for my first build. just saying. advice appreciated. if anyone has any more comments on my box as a whole (also debating graphics card) you're more than welcome to check over the tentative parts list:  .
but the area that gamer machines need the most work is the video card. without reservation i'd get any 2+ghz core 2 duo or higher, 2 or 4gb ram and then pour the rest of the bugdet to get the best video card for the money from this list -&gt;  having more cores does help, but that is not where you find your gaming machine to need the most help. bob
hi aegis, i would go for quad core as it may be happen that the future game would not be compatible for dual core but compatible for quad core.
gaming will eventually move to multicore optimization. as of now we are going to witness a shift from the lga 775 platform to the lga 1366 platform from intel. so for a system that is futureproof for 2-3 years a quad core will be good but too expensive (the qx series 9650&9770 are very fast but still do not justify their prices which are around $700-1000). a fast core2duo is a good option for about a year or 2. the ram should be 4gb then gaming under vista will not be an issue. similarly the graphics card is equally important, your choice of the gtx 260 is good. if you're thinking of sli i'd suggest you go for a higher psu say 800w. ddr3 system memory is still too costly to be an option
thanks, that's pretty much the lines upon which i'm thinking now. i'm going to pick up an e8500, which should last me a while, especially if i decide to overclock. in a year or two when quad cores are cheaper and have higher clock speed, i'll switch over to one of those. as far as i7 / non lga775 goes, well, that'll have to wait until my next build. especially since i'm definitely not messing with that ddr3 ram yet.
