d-link's dph-50u works as advertised for most users but be warned that it does not work for all users. in my case the initial installation and setup went well and the device performed as expected. however later in the day my computer no longer recognized the device and i lost several of my usb connections concurrently. after some time the dph-50u reports 'device no present' and shows the red 'not connected' icon in ones system tray. in xp sp2, running devmgmt.msc shows 'unknown device' under universal serial bus controllers. an internet search to solve this problem illuminated the fact that the d-link dph-50u is not a standard usb device. the installation software creates a unique usb setup which in my case has proven problematic. those 'unknown device' entries were previously fully functioning usb devices; now belly-up. the only solution i have found was discovered here:  d-link must know of this situation as it has been previously reported; i discovered it by googling d-link &quot;device not recognized&quot;. d-link support: none! i've phoned and emailed and have had one response. here is that response: your case id is dlk397773915. what is the issue that you are having. i will take care of any of the issues that you are having with the dph-50u. my reply has been ignored and i have heard nothing further. what is the best method to proceed?
it's unlikely to be a dlink problem but a pc issue. dlink won't help you fix your pc and i can't comment further since nothing is told about the pc. bob
the solution that you posted had nothing to do with d-link. you have a motherboard/operating system issue that is keeping a d-link product from working. the issue had nothing to do with your d-link product. it had to do with your usb port. that is like complaining to cheveron about there gas pumps when there is an issue with the fuel filling port on you toyota. i tried googling d-link &quot;device not recognized&quot; and only found 257 entries. not bad for such a big company. you would think they would have a lot more considering how many products they must sell in a month. not to mention that tech support is not free. it is for you as a customer, but d-link has to pay somebody to talk to you. you are expecting that d-link should trouble shoot an issue with your motherboard and os? why? call microsoft. call whoever made your motherboard/pc.
no surprise, i get the same problem with d-link - i stopped using them because their products are flakey and support is simply not satisfactory, like they dont even care.
