my gateway 510xl recently got the dreaded bsod and after taking it to be repaired, i was told the os was corrupted and would be too costly to repair. i would have to pay $199 for the diagnostics and since pre-made pc's only come with a restore disk, i would also have to buy a new copy of an os. what i would like to do is take out the hard drive out of the gateway system and piggyback it into the dell desktop pc i have. what i'd like to know is this: 1. once i connect the gateway drive to the dell system, will it boot up with the dell os or will it try to boot up with the newly added hard drives os from the gateway system? 2. what are the chances of the reason(s) for the oc to be corrupted on the gateway os to cause the same problem with the dell system? both pc's operating systems are windows xp. any help i can get would be greatly appreciated. chip
if you add the drive then it will only boot to that if you set it to do so. most of us will connect the old drive to the slave connection of the ide cable, the power connection and it will just work. bob
i'll give it a try and if i run into any problems, i'll be back.
i connected the gateway hard drive and the dell system and it acts like it did when the hard drive was in the gateway system. it will not boot up at all with that hard drive connected to the dell system. i ran an ide drive diagnostic on it and this is what it said: ide drive diagnostic drive 0: maxtor 6e030l0 -pass drive 1: wdc wd1200bb - 53dwao - fail. reture code: 79 would this indicate that the data on the wdc hard drive is lost and gone forever?
the gritty ones such as ide cable type, jumpers. in your last post the exact drive model number is shown but not the other two items.
that's all it said on the diagnostic check for the 2 drives. what other info is needed?
how do i tell what kind of ide cable it is and jumpers? my pc tech experience is limited. i'm trying to give all the info needed to get help. thank you again for your posts to this point. chip
ide drive diagnostic running, please wait... primary ide drive 0: maxtor 6e030l0 -pass drive 1: wdc wd1200bb-53dwao - fail. reture code: 79 secondary ide drive 2: samsung cd-rom sc-14 -diagnostic not supported drive 3: no ide device test complete, press &lt;enter&gt; to reboot.
i don't hold much hope but i'd like to check it just to be sure. bob
i wonder if the code is right since &quot; reture &quot; looks to be a typo. bob
i found that interesting myself, so i double checked it and that is what it said.
but it looks like a dead drive given what i have to work with.
thank you very much for your help today. chip
