hi....i wanted to upgrade my computer, so i need a advice about which one should i buy a amd dual-core processor 3800+, or any intel's dual core processor about a speed of 2.4ghz.. and i wanted some useful opinion that a single core 3.0ghz pentium 4 processor will be good or amd 64 processor (any model speeding to 3.0ghz). so plz help me in choosing the processors, which one is nice a dual core or a single core, .....thank you
= dual-core!
dual core anything is better. i would recommend intel's core2 duo even the slowest one is faster than pentium d
more and more programs are being written to maximize your dual-core dollar, and windows itself is going to be better at it soon (vista). i would say out of the choices you have listed, go with the amd dual-core 3800+ over the intel. only the newest intel chips (still cost about $1000) can compete with similarly priced amds (but it does smoke everything them all, from what i have read). good luck!
are you buying a new prebuilt system or doing modifications to an old one ? intel c2d is the way to go, if you have a platform that will support it. if you are buying a prebuilt, it's still the way to go.
to make any new system future proof you really need to go with a dual core. with dual cores already becoming main stream and quad cores just around the corner, you can be assured that programs utilizing multiple cores will be flooding the market in the next year. i just finished building a core 2 duo e6600 system and couldn't be happier. i was originally going to go with and amd, but once core 2 duo's hit the market there was really no competition. if you are looking to compare cpu's, look no further than tom hardware's cpu charts, they are incredibly helpful in determining how much bang you will get for your buck. good luck!!!
the clock speed on a dual core is confusing but a 2.0ghz is way faster and will destroy a p4 3.0 because dual cores are almost like double the clock speed there shown at especially the new core 2 good luck
