i have a thompson wireless router which has been firmware upgraded. i can successfully access the internet with my intel imac and my pc laptop. when i try to connect to the router using airport on my gg powerbook 867mhz os x 10.5.8. i get a connection timeout message. i have successfully connected by airport/wifi to my old router in london and even to a macdonalds free wifi. no luck here and isp unable to help despite sending me a new router and recommending the software upgrade. any assistance greatly welcome. isumbras
is sending out 802.11b and not just g and n. this could be the problem. access the router, see the manual, and make sure that it is broadcasting on all three channels b, g& n p
many thanks for the tip ~ i'll check straightaway. i
sadly not the root of the problem - interface type:
now that we have established that, there is a next step. i assume that you are not spreading the wealth around the neighborhood by running a wireless network that does not have encryption. the next step is to turn off the encryption and see if you can now connect to the router with the powerbook. let us know p
ok, i'll give it a go in the a.m. and come back to you. many thanks again - i've been working with macs since 1992 and do mac support myself but this one has me stumped.
yes that works. can log into wifi from powerbook g4 when encryption is turned off. unfortunately have had to re-enable encrytion as have a lot of data on other machines logged in to wifi. i guess we're a little closer to an answer though; you are top man. maximum thanks for all the help. isumbras
i have found that my older machines will only work with wep. the newer stuff leaves them out in the cold p
ah, could be it - encryption type is wpa+wpa2. many more thanks. i'll get on to the isp. isumbras
it is up to you to set what type of encryption you use on that router. p
many, many thanks for all your help. edited the security preference in the router gateway to wep and lo the powerbook now logs in fine. plusnet - who only came up with the correct solution after i had fed the info on the basis of your information - said i would have no problem logging on with my imac which was not the case. aren't they supposed to know this stuff?! fortunately i managed to remedy the imac login and now wait to see if i can get my wife's pc (spit) to connect. heyho best wishes i
wep is no protection today. that is, in less than 120 seconds with kid friendly software other folk can hijack your connection and use your internet connection as they wish. but in this discussion it looks like you are stuck with it. when you can, and when the machines allow it, move off wep asap. and let's be clear. mac address filtering does not work and hiding the ssid only results in more complaints and no added security. --&gt; use what works but be aware of the downsides. bob
many thanks for this info bob. hope this thread has been useful for some other people too. best wishes i
