hey all- thanks for the input on whether or not to go dvi. i actually bought a sceptre x20wg (dvi) from a guy through craigslist.org, and he bought it about a month ago from newegg.com. he had no problems with the cable or monitor. within a few hours of plugging it into my comp, the monitor would randomly go black and display a no signal detected message. it would also do this when playing a game, or when windows would shut down the monitor as a power saving measure. other times it would randomly flicker. usually i can unplug the cable and plug it back in, and the picture will come back/stabilize. i have an ati x700 card, and this is the first time i've used the dvi port. all drivers for both the monitor and card are updated. ati's site says to increase the refresh, so i went from 60 to 75 (75 was the next available option), and that didn't help. any ideas? i'm going to try a vga cable tomorrow, and i have another dvi cable on the way, but since it worked for the previous owner, i'm a little stumped.
makes you wonder why the orginal owner sold it so soon. i suggest simply trying it on another system and check results. you did de-install the old drivers of your older monitor? tada -----willy
the old owner ended up buying an even bigger monitor. he's actually been trying to help me solve the problem as well. even offered to swap dvi cables, but i had already ordered the new one. the drivers for this new monitor are the only ones installed.
it seems that for the most part, if i'm just using the computer for the internet, word, and the like, i don't have any problems. it's when i play a game that the above problems will sometimes show up, especially during a moment when there's a lot of action on screen.
the problem maybe your video card/port as it gets heated, it becomes stressed out. games will demand alot of the system resources and once into the upper demands can fall down quite quickly. you can try to better cool the system or video directly if possible. however, if you put the resolution down abit during gaming or just lower the expections, you get along longer before a problem or goes away and if that the case, then you see where the problem lies. tada -----willy
never thought about heat causing problems. i'm doing some troubleshooting with a vga cable, and soon i'll have a new dvi cable to do the same.
but when i have this message: if i use an old monitor, same problem:no signal and i can ear the fans running into the pc. so the lcd is ok?
mbm5 mother board monitor 5, says no temp problems. is it perhaps the graphic card ???? 6600gt fanless.
just bought it last week. have similar problem, monitor would not wake up when on dvi connection &quot;signal not detected!&quot; comes up and that's it. had to reset the computer every time. works fine on vga/d-sub connection, but resolution no good. here is the response from spectre support - so there you have it: dear customer,that means your video card is not compatible with the monitor. you'll need to change your video card or use the vga connection. you can also try updating the video card drivers to see if that makes any difference.best regards, sceptre technical support group ...like which one should i buy???...so it's not a bargain after all.
o.k. looks like problem solved. has been running on dvi for few days without a problem. just updated driver on ati all-in-wonder 7500. first time it started failling againg after i fiddle with some settings. re-loaded driver (ati catalist) left it almost as is. using just one of the windows original screen saver (starflight)- works great.
