i've had my hyundai image quest l90d+ for about 4 months. yesterday, i was using my computer and i noticed that i have two lines running from top to bottom. one is about an inch from the vertical edge of the monitor, the other is about two inches from the vertical edge of the monitor. i disconnected my monitor and unplugged it. i let it sit overnight and reconnected it this morning. the lines are still there. the only difference is that instead of one line being blue and the other line being red, one line is now green and the other line is blue with a hint of red around the edges. how can i fix this problem? anyone else have this problem with the l90d? anyone else have this problem with the l90d?
i believe it would have to be returned; see also:
thanks for the advice. i'm working on sending the monitor back now. just got my rma number.
change the refresh rate to another supported number and see if the item in question moves left/right or vanishes. if it changes then it's likely a cable or video card issue. to nail this one, you need to test the display on another pc. bob
5 month old l90d+ has nasty line down right third of display. sent hyundai tech support request for help. 11/23/05
we just purchased our hyundai l90d+ monitor 2 weeks ago and im getting vertical lines about 2 inches from the right side of the screen. started with one line, then 2 and now this morning i see 4 lines! green and red in colour. will return as soon as possible! expected better from a korean brand...
i sent my montitor back to hyndai to be replaced. they were fairly quick in replacing my monitor and they gave me no problems. i'm keeping my fingers crossed as i have not had any problems with the replacement. maybe it's just superstition, but i noticed that the lines on my first monitor appeared near the on/off switch. i wonder if the pressure from pressing that button caused the lines, so now, i never used the on/off switch and just let the monitor power down when my computer turns off.
i bought mine through tigerdirect. in about 3 weeks, i had the same streaking occur on the right 1/5 of the monitor. i told tigerdirect about it and they replaced it free of charge. now i'm having the same problems with the replacement (same model). i tried returning it to tiger, but they only accept returns within 30 days, so i've contacted the manufacturer. unfortunately i haven't heard back from them yet, after emailing twice and calling once. so i've been stuck with this monitor for maybe 2 months. if you let it go on for a while, it gets really bad! now it almost looks posessed! the right 1/5 of the screen is totally covered in streaks. sometimes you can see through them and it looks like someone used the blur tool in photoshop! sometimes that side just goes white, and then the rest of the screen looks fine, but the worst is when the lines start flickering rapidly back and forth, causing the whole screen to freak out. not fun. i'm glad the warranty is for 3 years, hopefully, if these problems keep occuring, they'll just send me a better model later on. for now, i'm just waiting until business hours so i can call again. but i'm glad to hear it's not just happening on my system - i was starting to wonder if i had some weird power issue or the graphics card was causing the problems.
hello drew kronick, thank you for your interesting of hyundai products. we had some failure of this symptom that had been informed to the factory for improvement couple of months ago. we have been told that this intermittent symptom has been corrected by factory. thomas kim hyundai monitor service division 777 mark st. wood dale, il 60191 phone 800-568-0060 or 630-595-0123 fax 800-784-9422 or 630-595-2345 e-mail tomkim@hyundaimonitor.com ----- original message ----- from: hyundai monitor / avc to: tom kim/avc sent: tuesday, december 27, 2005 8:35 pm subject: fw: l90d+ lcd monitor rma dept,.(warranty service) hyundai imagegquest america. 777 mark st. wood dale il, 60191 (voice)800-568-0060 / 630-595-0123 (fax) 800-784-9422 / 630-595-2345 -----original message----- from: drew kronick [mailto:dkronic1@tampabay.rr.com] sent: saturday, december 24, 2005 8:45 pm to: service@hyundaimonitor.com cc: dkronic1@tampabay.rr.com subject: l90d+ lcd monitor hello, i have been looking for a new lcd monitor to replace my current crt monitor, which i use for business applications and games. after reading many reivews i decided on the l90d+, but i have one concern. a larger portion of the recent reviews describe a problem with vertical lines appearing on the right sides of the screen within one to three months of use. i am wondering if this situation has been corrected in the latest production line? thanks, drew
i bought 2 of these monitors in september 2005. one went bad within 30 days. hyundai replaced it. in february the replacement and the other original monitor went bad. all three of the monitors have the same problem of vertical lines on the right hand side of the machine. i am still waiting to find out if they are going to charge me shipping for the replacements.
i had 2 different pc's and monitors went bad on both. i don't use the on off switch at all and i have had 3 monitors go bad. all same problem.
i bought mine from tigerdirect also. after 30 days they are no help at all. that was the last purchase i will make from tigerdirect. i ave not had any problem in contacting hyundai or getting replacements. the number i called was 1-800-568-0060
i currently have 2 monitors i am sending back with the streaking symptom, that makes a total of 3 i have had to send back. i have to pay to ship these units back. i understand that once and a while something can go wrong with a unit but this problem is one hyundai is aware of. i think it is very poor business practices for a company to require customers to pay shipping for a known factory defect.
