(i think i have now found the right place to post this) i bought the 32g ipad wifi 3gs and found that i could not even access my own website. i returned it within 1 business day and was charged a 10% restocking fee.($72.00) . i then had to cancel the $29.00 a month at&t wireless data sevice, then the pro plan, 99.00, then the mobile me 99.00). it was like having a virus. somehow i missed the big sign that said limited internet access and you cannot download mozilla firefox or internet explorer as you can on all other macs because apple is upset with adobe? this is just a glorified ipod! an expensive one at that! worse yet i put it on my barclays (apple account) and they said that they couldn't do anything because i got what i ordered- quote unquote. i am about to cancel my iphone service (125.00) cancellation fee after 3.5 years and i will never have a new apple product in my house again. bottom line- apple doesn't care! they control the market and now they can control what you can and cannot see on the internet. big brther is watching
i am guessing you have flash on your website? just change the flash to html 5 or h.264. it many take sometime depending on the website, since i have never worked with h.264 i can not say how fast that programing goes, but i have worked with html 5 & it would not be that hard, you do all the work behide the scenes then late one night which over. look at it this way, you have a website that can not be accessed by about 2 million people & growing everyday, changing it to one of the above ( html5 or h.264 ) will open up your company to a larger market without messing with those who right now can access it. for me since i gotten my ipad about a month ago, i hardly turn on my 17&quot; pc laptop anymore & the few times i have it's just for photoshop 90% of the time; only this past week i have used my pc to access the internet & that is just to view the bp rover cams because all websites are running that in flash. from my ipad
if you use your laptop less and less because you have an ipad, i guess you did not use the laptop for any business purposes....word processing..spread sheets etc.
for someone who seems to hate apple products so much, you own or owned a lot of them. a couple of things: 1) what were you expecting of the ipad when you bought it? from your reply, it seems what you really needed was a laptop computer instead. did you buy the ipad on impulse and not realize the ipad was primarily intended as an entertainment device to replace the all of the stupid cell phones with a 2&quot; screen that people use for watching movies and listening to music and all the other entertainment apps people download? 2) the ipad does not replace a computer. it's a larger device for surfing the web, checking business emails and for using the zillions of great apps that make it nearly a full-function computer, but without going blind to stare at a 2&quot; screen. so why not just use a laptop computer? a lot of people should, but for the pure entertainment aspects, the ipad is great. 3) limited internet access by whose definition? just because you can't download firefox or internet explorer? again, didn't you test the ipad before buying it? it's not a computer so the ipad does not use file or folder-based storage and functions like a computer, so it's built to work with safari. i get excellent internet access anywhere there is wi-fi on my wi-fi ipad, just as good as my laptop that needs wi-fi. 4) $125 to cancel? didn't you read the contract before you signed? 5) i do agree about the adobe/apple issue with the ipad not using flash. the ipod and the iphone also don't use flash.
now &quot;skyfire browser&quot; app that plays flash, it is not out yet for the ipad & just $2.99 for the iphone/itouch, it has it's bugs but it is just 2 weeks old, in 6 months most of those should be fixed. i am not sure when the ipad version is coming, maybe by new years.
