i've searched through various posts and other sites for reviews and tips on what tablet to get, but i'm still lost. i figured by posting here i'd get a better idea of what i need. here's pretty much what i'm looking for.... these are the most important requirements: 1. i am looking for a tablet with no less than 8.9&quot; screen. i looked at the google nexus 7 and it seems great, but the screen is too small for what i'm looking to do. 2. i will be using the tablet for business while on travel, so i'd like it to be able to open office documents - mostly word, excel, and power point. i don't care if i have to pay to get an app that will do this. i just need to have the capability. 3. i'd like decent battery life. i will be traveling a bit and if i'm taking a flight from coast to coast, i'd like to be able to watch a full length movie without the battery dying. 4. it needs to have a reliable wi-fi signal. 5. i'd like to watch movies with good video resolution. 6. the device doesn't need to have a lot of storage space, but it does need to have the capability to access services like google drive, or some kind of online file storage. i typically have a lot of smaller files on a usb thumb drive that i carry with me, but i know most tablets don't have the capability to read them. so, regardless of what tablet i get, i'm prepared to make the switch to using some sort of online file storage service to access my files. 7. the typing and note-taking needs to be smooth. i currently have a motorola razr phone and i use evernote and a couple other note taking apps. the typing is very sluggish and it's pretty annoying. if i'm going to be using a tablet for typing, i want the response time to be as if i'm typing on a computer. 8. the tablet should have the option for an external keyboard - whether it's connected directly or via bluetooth doesn't matter to me. 9. i will be browsing the internet with the tablet. i've heard the ipad doesn't support flash, but i'm not sure how big of a problem that will be for me. i do watch youtube videos and also show video files for business presentations. the videos are mostly .avi, .mpeg, .wmv, .mov, etc. 10. i'd like to switch my current magazine subscriptions like popular science, forbes, etc so i can view them on the tablet. the tablet needs to have some way of viewing these. 11. i'd like to store and view photos. - mostly jpg 12. processor speed... since i will be multitasking, i'd like seamless transition between opening apps, etc. somewhat important but not a deal breaker: 1. it'd be nice if there was a way to hook up a usb thumb drive or an external hard drive to the device. whether or not it's a direct connect or maybe a wireless hard drive it doesn't matter to me. 2. it'd be nice to multi-task. i like how you can view several files at once with the samsung galaxy devices. things that don't matter 1. the speakers don't have to be great. if i'm going to listen to music with this device, it'll be with headphones or hooking up some external speakers. so, the sound quality doesn't need to be fantastic. in regards to price, i'm willing to pay somewhere between 400-500 dollars. i keep hearing that the ipad is the best tablet, but i really have no idea if it's the best for what i need. since there are countless android tablets, i don't know enough about them either. any help would be greatly appreciated. thanks!
that's the only known system that hits all your marks. bob
while there are loyal android users, i don't know any that have also used apple devices (it seems once an apple user, always an apple user). after looking through your list it seems like an ipad is the way to go. imo if you go with something else you're either going to disappointed, or you're not going to be aware of what you're missing. make sure you pick up a nice, solid case for your new tablet too. cheers, chase
when that happens then a big item in their list will be covered. for now the few that demand full word and excel compatibility get to look at windows 7/8/9 pro tablets. bob
thanks for the reply. why do you think the ipad is better in this case? the only apple device i have is an ipod. my phone runs android and i'm pretty used to the google products. the only thing i dislike about my android phone is it's inability to keep up with my typing. i purchased an ipad 3 for my dad this weekend and had a chance to look at it. it seems pretty simple and easy to figure out, which is nice. but, i've read that they can't be customized like the android tablets can. the one thing i like about some of the asus tablets is the ability to dock with an external keyboard which has usb and memory card expansion. that's kind of a nice feature. does the ipad have that capability? thanks
but it fails some items on your list. it could be you were spec happy and didn't really mean what you wrote but i'm left to guess. as to the customizing of one tablet over the over, the windows 8 pro tablet wins that round. bob
which particular items on the list doesn't it meet? i think the windows 8 pro tablet will be outside of my price range. also, someone at work has the asus tablet with windows rt and hasn't had a lot of great things to say about it. the hardware is nice, but they said that windows rt is pretty limited. so, i'm somewhat skeptical about the windows tablets. thanks!
i have the asus model and almost all documents open. we have a few that didn't and for that, we're back to a windows laptop or tablet. frankly windows 8 rt is so restrictive that we can't go near that at the office. lighten up microsoft and maybe we'll look at it again. windows 8 rt is nice that you get office. these tablets are not cheaper than a laptop so i wonder why you are looking at them. what's the attraction?  lists out the tablet and dock for just under 1,000. bob
