hello, i have a win ce 6, 7&quot; laptop. at first i couldnt get online (ie). i got sent a file to install from the sd card, and it now works fine - except that when using it to browse the web, for no reason i can see, on random pages, it just suddenly goes off the internet and connects itself to the local intranet...meaning i cant view webpages - as i am just a personal user and dont actually have an intranet at all... its not certain sites or pages...because its never the same ones, sometimes i can see a page sometimes i can't... any ideas how i can disable the intranet function entirely or stop this happening? i cannot click on the icon, and there just doesnt seem to be anyway to stop it...if i hit the back button, it goes back online...if i need to look at a page and it wont let me, if i just keep trying over and over it will eventually let me stay online to see it...but then go off at another random page. this are just normal sites like facebook, yahoo, etc. thanks
time to get it back to the maker or seller. unlike windows this version is pretty locked down. bob
thanks but its brand new...and works fine in every other way...and mostly surfs the net fine...what are you suggesting is defective? the internet? the software? the hardware? the intranet? the settings?
i had a ce 5.0 that had a not well implemented wifi. yes, it's defective. you proved it. brand new does not mean they got the bugs out. bob
ok well thanks anyway but thats not very helpful to me...i am aware theres a problem with it already. i want help to fix it really, not just be told there is a fault also its win ce 6, not 5 cheers
windows ce machines are unlike your common pcs. there are no user serviceable parts and we can't change the os. if it's busted then its busted. i can only guess you are new to windows mobile/ce. i'm just a programmer (and more) and took the classes and seminars on windows mobile, embedded xp and more. as i am not the person who created this image, i can't do much other than help you learn a bit about this issue. bob
