we have a home netweok with a netgear wgr 614 router. the main computer which is connected to the dsl modem and router works ok, but the wirelss connections do not work. they have in the past, but the other desktop always got a low signal strength. the laptop signal was always strong on the floor above. verizon does not support netgear so they won't be any help. could the router have gone bad? we haven't changed anything on the setup. would we be better off getting a new, stronger router with a speed booster? verizon is trying to sell us fios, but we're not sure it would work in our house and don't want any more wires around. the main computer is faster and always gets on line faster. i would appreciate any suggestions before we buy anything.
many routers arrive with out of date firmware or wireless disabled. check both. bob
thanks. i disconnected one wire from the router and then reconnectged it and tried again. i got a connection on the other desktop, but the signal was so low, i couldn't connect to the internet. i am on the laptop now so that gives me more information, but doesn't clarify what the real problem is. i have heard that vertical connections work better than horizontal ones.
are you using a westell 6100 modem/router with your verizon dsl? rick
why you didn't check the items i wrote about? bob
it wasn't that i ignored your suggestion, i just remembered once before that netgear had asked me to unplug the connection for a while and it helped then. so i tried it again and it worked well for the laptop, but the desktop got too low a signal to access the internet. if it works so well with the laptop, i figured it is not the router, but something else. i will check again with netgear and give them my updated information and ask about updates. thanks for your help.
i am using a westell 2110 dual connect router with verizon. the model is b90 210015-04. i have noticed that they now offer a combined modem and router with their service. we need to check with them anyway since we could get a much cheaper rate by paying for a year. they were supposed to replace the model some time ago and didn't. i found a new ehternet cable made all the difference in the connection. we also moved it up higher so it didn't get bumped.
router uses the ip of 192.168.1.1 it may br conflicting with the netgear router. log in to the westell router. if you cannot, run belarc advisor and see what the ip for the westell is. if it is 192.168.1.1 then change the netgear router to 192.168.7.1 and it should solve the problem. hope this helps. rick
