i'm a software guy, i have a number of clients with swim schools. the pool water's 32-34 c ( &gt;90f), so the environment's both hot and humid. plus there's the hint of chlorine and/or salt in the air. regular pcs don't last long in this environment. many have leased premises, so air conditioning not an option (besides hot/cold health issues). ambient air in summer in mid to high 30s for many (australia). can you advise us on hardware & peripherals that might be effective as well as affordable?
water cooling is a potential idea, assuming you have very large radiators you could use evaporative cooling, except that it won't benefit or work very well in a humid environment or if they have deep pockets, phase change would handle that fine because it's basically air conditioning to cool the cpu, but your tlaking around $1200 a unit other ideas would be large cases with lots of fans and good heat sinks, and fan filters but your basically describing a computer's worst nightmare
sometimes, its harder to move the user's thinking and/or habits for best results. this is an good example, if the user can access some other area or a more controlled enviroment the problem will persist. the only solution i can think of and it must be a controlled one, is a heated table or surface. this will dehumind the immediate area and any intake huminity actually helps cool the system/laptop. when i say heated only slightly like a warmed sunlit exposed table, maybe 10-15deg. above. the system/laptop should still have its own acceptable cooling working 100% with any help like bigger fans, etc.. tada -----willy
either some serious cooling hardware or some pricey gear designed to handle extremes. i've stumbled apon a few things: itronix gobook vr-1 laptop &quot; ..is waterproof, vaporproof, and shockproof. each pc is put through numerous, strenuous tests, including being dropped 54 times from one meter, baked in an oven, vibrated, chilled, and drenched. &quot;- geek.com the vr-1 will be available in november at a base price of $3,329. the cheaper hummer versions will be starting at $2,988.  those both may be overkill for your conditions. panasonic has their toughbooks.  which may be a better (cheaper) option. they are built to meet the same mil-std-810f standards as the itronix systems. &quot; the humidity test was performed in accordance with mil-std-810f, method 507.4 (aggravated). the test items were tested for operation near the conclusion of the fifth and tenth cycles. each cycle was one day (24 hours) and the entire test was performed over ten days.the temperature was cycled between 86 and 140f with the relative humidity at 95% constant. -from panasonic.com prices are laptop reasonable a quick froogle i'd say go with a toughbook.
might not be possible, but keep it in a room with a dehumidifier. much cheaper than buying extreme enviroment computers.
forgot about those.... those or the extreme environment pc's
