hi all, i work in a production facility and a majority of my day is spent away from my desk either in meetings or out on the production floor. while i am on the floor i get a lot of questions i am not able to answer because i cannot access my email (microsoft outlook), sharepoint sites, sap etc. this causes me to have to take notes, walk back to my desk and then follow up with the person later on. this creates a lot of wasted time in my day. i also use sap heavily. i was wondering if there are any tablets that are capable of doing a remote desktop back to my office where i could then use sap on the floor. if i was able to do a remote desktop it would probably be the best for me so i could keep all files on one computer and only use the tablet to link to my office while on the floor. i would assume a tablet could not support having its own sap program therefore i am pursuing the remote desktop. so my question is there a tablet capable of remote desktop connection which is reliable and able to use sap through the connection? i would assume most any tablet could connect to sharepoint sites or microsoft outlook so my biggest question is being able to use sap. i also have a laptop but it does not work well on the floor because i usually do not have a place to set it down to work. this is why i am pursuing the use of a tablet. thanks for your help!
plenty out there. if you mean best, panasonic toughbooks are best for such things. example at  bob
you could also try the asus ep-121 which is a windows 7 tablet. i have one that i use both for home and work which provides more versatility and flexibility. only disadvantages are its weight of 2.6lbs, battery life of 3.0 - 3.5 hours and of course the price of 1199.00 for the 64gb version which i recommend. i comes with a leather cover, and bluetooth keyboard with pen for writing.
i saw this post and thought i'd answer even though i am a year late. i have been using &quot;jumpdesk&quot; app on my ipad, my iphone and my acer mini to get work done on the fly.
