i've been asking around, a lot.....here and elsewhere. many different ppl have said many different things about upgrades of cards. i just want the simplest way to upgrade to a dedicated card that can play some games. but not the high-end intense games like &quot;oblivion&quot;. and can give me good video when watching in hd. i would like to avoid upgrading the power supply (if possible). i'm new to upgrading on my own, so i'd like to go simple. these are my specs: hp pavilion a6157c desktop 250w power supply 2gb memory 320gb hard drive e4400, 2.0ghz intel processor windows vista home premium integrated media accelerator 950 &quot;card&quot; (chip onboard) i got my bundle very reasonably priced w/ an hp w2207 wide 22&quot; brightview monitor w/dvi and cables ($999 costco) i've been told by techs at best buy i can go with the nvidia geforce 8500gt pci-express w/512 mb using my 250w supply, but hp say i'd need to upgrade power to 300w. hp also says i can go with nvidia 7600gs, but would still need to upgrade to 300w. infact hp said any newer card today would need to be used w/ 300w. who's right here???? maybe if i find i'm capable at installing this graphics card, i may venture out in the future and build my own, or keep expanding (as much as possible), on this bundle.
i'd pick the lowest cost offering from this link -&gt;  bob
go to google and type in &quot;power supply calculator&quot; the first link click it and fill in all that you have. this will give you an idea of how much juice you are using. so when deciding what card to get you dont affect system performance.
but consider: best buy's goal is to sell you stuff, i personally would never trust anything they tell you ever, especially after reading about the geek squad &quot;scandal&quot; (more like acknowledgement of what we all knew was happening anyways). they'll tell you it'll work, sell you the hardware, and if the system comes back damaged, why does it hurt them? they get more reputation for helping you fix it, and more money from you buying parts. hp is the original manufacturer, and therefore should be considered the authority on the system, even if the csr isn't an electrical engineer, they've likely dealt with your particular model a thousand times over, and have the hp spec sheets telling them what it can and can't do, regardless of what some (can i say punk?) employee at best buy tells you. an online psu calculator can be very helpful, but consider that it only gives you an estimate of wattage draw, and doesn't take into account power supply efficiency. most modern high end psus are 450-550w, purely because thats where most enthusiast buyers are shopping (because they want to power high end parts like geforce 8800's and quad core processors). i would say either the 8500, or hp's suggestion of the 7600gs (newegg has a nice deal on a his radeon x1650pro which is $62 ar)) but to the power supply point, most 250-350w units are low quality, however there are a few decent quality units such as the antec smartpower 350w.
