i just recently bought a new video card, an ati radeon 9250 256mb agp card. my old card was an ati radeon 7200 64mb agp card. when i went to switch them out my computer didn't recognize the new one yet it still runs fine with the old one. basically my monitor never recieves a signal and it gives me the error sound of a long beep followed by 2 short beeps. i hooked the card up to another older computer running a nvidia geforce pci card and it booted up fine. the old computer is 5 years older than mine. i've tried everything i can think of and i'm stumped. any help would be appreciated.
perhaps you have a mobo that can't accept an agp 4x/8x card.
i have an aopen mx34 motherboard. i ran some checks and looked on the site and it said the agp port was 1x 2x and 4x.
this is not a problem. what is a problem is, &quot;you haven't installed the new card&quot;. you can't until you uninstall the old one. open &quot;device manager&quot; and remove old card, go to control panel, add/remove and remove software for old card. shut down. then you can remove old card and install new card. xp (or any other os) will then see new card when you boot up. a piece of advice, i have noticed on a lot of hardware (even newer stuff) will not install from xp &quot;autorun&quot;. my ati 9250 card is one of them. when you put the disc in, stop autorun and open disc manually. first read the instructions (may be readme file). important. sometimes things have to installed in a certain order, and some things may not be necessary for your computer. hope this helps. chuck
when you installed the new card in the old pc and it booted up ok, were you using the same monitor or a different one? it's very rare that a video card and monitor have a compatibility issue (with a particular motherboard) but i have encountered such things on very rare occasions. try a different monitor if you have one (this would be the easiest first step to trouble-shoot the problem). if this doesn't work, check to see if your motherboard bios is the latest revision available. if not, update and try again. does your system bios have options for agp? if so, make sure you select the right compatibility mode for your new configuration. hope this helps... cindy
try booting the pc without any video card (new or old). did you get the same number/sequence of beeps? if so, the mobo isn't happy with the card. try clearing the cmos (page 13 of your manual) using the procedure below. 1. turn off the system and unplug the ac power. 2. remove atx power cable from connector pwr2. 3. locate jp14 and short pins 2-3 for a few seconds. 4. return jp14 to its normal setting by shorting pins 1-2. 5. connect atx power cable back to connector pwr2. now try booting with the new card. hope this helps.
