i have an hp dv2000z laptop(ie amd chips) w an interal broadcom wireless b/g card w bluetooth. it has been working for a year. all of a sudden the computer cannot detect it. strangely the bluetooth seems to work fine. button switch is blue. wireless just doesn't work. no networks detected. card not even there. is it something loose? card just fritzed out? can an automatic update interfere w something? i don't think it's a driver issue, but then again...
let's try the simple thing. also since it's xp try system restore to when it worked.
when i move the switch back and forth it goes from orange to blue indicating the antenna is on and as i said, the bluetooth on the card still works. the antenna icon indicates that it likewise goes on and off. hp wireless asst says the bluetooth is on as well, but reads no wireless card as it used to. the wireless b/g has disappeared from the the list of devices and the hp wireless asst. since the bluetooth and the wireless b/g are supposedly on the same broadcom card, i find it odd that only the wireless portion seems to have disappeared.
don't discount that the card is dead. call it in and get them to send another. i found this card to be easy to swap out. if you are fixing it yourself did you remove ac, battery and unplug, snap it back in and retest? is there a bios setting to disable it? bob
took out the battery and the card. although i didn't disconnect the 2 wires to the card. replaced. no change. at this point i am going to assume that it is either the card or the connection between the card and the computer. so i think i'll get a card and try to replace it. at this point, i hope that that's the problem w the least troublesome solution. can anyone tell me how to disconnect/reconnect the 2 wires? i don't know how it attaches... screw, clasp over a bulb... snap?
rotate them as you pull on them...
just ordered the replacement card and crossing my fingers it isn't a problem w mini-pci slot. thanks for the input.
hey guys, i had the same problem, i found out this hp forum thread which i think is extremaly useful and informative  in my understanding, it does have to do with a design failure of the components that makes very easy to overheat the area near the wireless card, so the mb-card connection gets hurt. they've put a bios update to force the fan to go faster and remove that heat ...
my blue light comes and goes. when it goes, the wireless card and driver cannot even be detected. then it come back unexpectedly a day or two later and it is easily detected. what is the problem?
i've had my pavilion tx2000 for almost 5 years now and never had any problems except recently my wireless card just stopped working, device manager does not read broadcom even when i reinstall the driver, blue light comes on after hours of shutdown but disappears when i do a restart, nothing works even when i try to configure bios, log in to safe mode with networking, etc. unless you are sure that it is really the card itself that's defective (hardware), try this instead. it's how i fixed mine and its been working 100%. 1) with your laptop off, remove the wireless card from its slot, make sure the plates are clean then reinstall into the laptop. 2) remove the laptop battery and use direct power source. 3) backup all your files and do a complete reformat. 4) update windows to the latest service pack available from microsoft. goodluck!
