i just bought a factory repaired seagate barracuda 750 gig sata drive and installed it . when i rebooted the mobo started to beep , and the drive made similar sound (or noise) . both sounds continue with drive data cable unplugged from board and drive. after about 2 mins. both sounds cease . bios does not detect it . the drive spins-up and , otherwise , sounds normal . my rig is as follows : ecs 865g-m8 motherboard celeron d 3.2 ghz processor seagate st3750640as 750gb 7200rpm 16mb sata/300 hdd austin dr-b300atx 300 watt max power supply someone , pleeeease help me !!!!!!!!!!!
since you do not give details on this, what was the status of your system before this? was this a working system? if so, take out the seagate drive and put the other drive back in. if all ok, bad drive. if this is not the case and the system never was started before, try a different drive or try the drive in question in another system. while i have not used a drive of that size, from the specs it does not use any more power than smaller drives and should not overwhelm the power supply. see here:
just unplug the hd completely, not the data alone. if the sound continues you have another problem source at least. offhand, it sounds like a bad fan. there are fans in the psu and check all others when starting. if you haven't already clean out the dust bunnies and the fans as well. depending on your wallet, if the psu fan(s) are the source of noise, you maybe better off replacing the psu as damage from lack of cooling maybe already present and thus your result. of course any other fan failure(not turning or not 100%) will cause problems too. if fan, replace will similar unit. if psu, replace with higher wattage unit, cost for similar type above 300w is easily affordable, imho for generic psu. follow your ear for noise source, open case, however don't unplug fans to test, observe. verify, under the bios area that the hd segment has been enabled for new hd, plus be sure master/slave(jumper) or cs cabling is proper. tada -----willy
try this drive in another machine. bob
sorry for missing info , i'm new to this whole forum approach , however , i've been building for a while now . you know how it goes , new config and never encountered this before . everything was running great . all my fans volts and rpms great , nothing even close to too hot , no dust build up . everything was running and performing fine . i suspected the hdd from the start , just trying other things to keep from the hassle of sending back and the whole go-'round of it all .
that's a fairly new jumbo size drive. we've seen issues over the years as some bios will not play with newer drives. while  covers most issues you are on the leading edge so that and the not so big power supply becomes suspect. bob
this just started last night and i'm waiting for some ppl to get home that have sata plugs on their mb's and are willing to let me try this on their machines . these ppl live in the country , and i live in back-woods boondocks , so this takes a while . thanx for the tip , i'll post results hopefully late tonight .
thank you so very much for the help . we seem to be thinking along the same wavelength . i was thinking that trying the drive in my friends machine will answer that q too . i am not sure of his psu size , but, with his rig set-up i know he has to have no less than 450 , raid 4 , big nvidia sli cards , so on so forth . thankx again
since you have a sata hd be sure you have a good seat on the sata cable. older mtrbds. did an issue on this matter. newer sata cables are better seating and/or lock-in better. even so, just check it as some builders even silicone them into place. as for 750gb hd is a tad large, if your mtrbd. needs any bios updates, see what they're for, it may address such issues. tada -----willy
turn on or enable the sata controller in the mb bios. were the sata drivers loaded for the motherboard ? what os and sp are you running ? sure the bios is up to date and will handle large drive(s) ? vapcmd
hi , i'm about to flash and update my bios . my main issue and concern is the beeping from the mb when the hd is plugged into just the psu with data cable unattached to either hardware item . this is what is making me call my psu into question
vapcmd
