i hope someone brighter than me has a solution to this very annoying problem--which appears to be evolving. i first got a message from xp as follows: cannot complete the cd writing wizard there was an error in the writing process. the disc you have attempted to write may no longer be usable. i followed the standard troubleshooting techniques to no avail. the writer is a ''philips cdd5301 / h1.1'' and is listed in device manager. i decreased the speed to match the cd-rw speed, confirmed that burning is ''enabled'', and ran ''services.msc /s to ''start and automate'' the imapi cd burner. interesting thing here is that it seems to stop at some point after i start it (not, though, when i try burning). i may have deleted ''record now'' and therefore installed a newer version (sonic record now) without success. i also reinstalled media player 10 just in case. finally, i attempted to update the philips driver to a more recent one, but that doesn't seem to work either. now, i'm not even getting the error message from the cd writer, but it just seems to lock up when i ask it to ''write these files to cd.'' the message remains the same, ''there is no disc in the drive, please insert a writable cd.'' i tried removing the drive from the device manager and reinstalling without success. finally, for fyi, i have not ''reset the drive cables to the optical drive'' nor have i ''cleared the registry filters''. i was hoping to find an easy solution that i could simply download and updated driver or something. if anyone could please point me to a solution, i would be greatly appreciative. otherwise, i guess i'll be forced to purchase and install a new drive, though i have no experience doing so. thanks and regards!
while the above may or may not resolve it, i suggest tossing out xp's native recording which you can also read more at  that &quot;some cds burned by win xp cannot be read. microsoft has acknowledged various problems with the inbuilt software that can result in files (or sometimes whole disks) being unreadable when they have been burned with the inbuilt software. see mskb 320174. they have posted a patch on the microsoft download center...&quot; i'd use cdburnerxp from download.com and let microsoft keep their problems. bob
thanks for the insight. does this mean that my problem is limited to the s/w and that my cd-writer remains ok? thanks again!
you would have to try cdburnerxp and see. bob
i tried everything and seem to have a compatibility problem. i wind up with a 5 asc: 30 ascq: 0 error which, when researched, appears to indicate some sort of compatibility problem. i suspect my philips cdd5301 needs replacement. any final thoughts on other troubleshooting techniques or resources for resolution? ps. the link referred me to the same troubleshooting i tried earlier and the new s/w doesn't solve the problem either. thanks!
and other searches don't reveal much. i can't tell what that means given so little a story from you about what you used to get that error. i'm also unsure if you used cdburnerxp and tried it with new media at 1/2 the rated speed. also suspect is the drive's firmware (never revealed) and if you used a cd/dvd lens cleaner. the lack of details leaves me with little traction on this one. bob
