i have been considering to buy a netbook for basic applications like -web browsing -downloading stuff(download a lot of movies) -watching movies and listening to music -typing and editing documents i am considering dell mini,sony vaoi vpcm126ag/p and hp mini 210series my prime concerns are: -would a netbook be able to pull maximum internet speeds? i am currently using a broadband internet connection of 1mbps. -how much of multitasking can it handle? for instance how comfortably can it pull web browsing (with multiple tabs on), editing documents,a download in progress while a movie is running simultaneously? -could you name a few softwares that are likely to bringdown its performance, the ones i better steer clear of.. please help me decide if netbook is a good choice at all thanks a ton! prashanth
netbooks are fine but you describe using one just like a full sized laptop. given a full sized laptop is the same or not much more price why would you sacrifice your hands and eyes to a netbook? bob
i am looking for something very light and portable...
something like the old gateway ex1440u. it's one step up and away from a netbook and what i use on travel when i don't have to do much. bob
netbooks have their place....they are not supposed to 'replace' an upscale laptop....i have one i use when travelling, they are easily carried at airports, can access wifi while waiting....also use in hotel room to check email, look up stuff on web, etc. ...a netbook is not supposed to be for long correspondence, lengthy emails, etc... the thing to look for in a netbook is to be sure it is upgradeable to 2 gb!!, thats the first thing i did. makes 100% difference in performance. the other thing is the keyboard, there are differences in how far the keys are apart/spaced...which helps in input. other wise, dell, h.p., acer, whatever, are all about the same... you could say its a difference between a loaded larger laptop, and a pda or an email/net capable cellphone....bottom line again is, what are you going to use it for ??? sc
i'm with bob on this one, you can pick up a full function notebook that isn't dramatically heavier or much more expensive than a netbook and get a better screen for watching movies and a more capable multi-threading processor (intel core, rather than atom). your specific questions: will a netbook handle maximum internet sppeds? probably not but it will have no problem at all with your 1 mbps. how much multitasking can it handle? your list looks too heavy to me - you'd be much better off with an intel core processor than an atom that sacrifices performance for lighter weight (of the whole unit) and battery life.
i am trying out an acer aspire with 1g ram & 250g memory. it is very, very slow; the touchpad is very skittish no matter how i adjust it; and it simple is not powerful enough to have multiple screens open. i'm extremely disappointed and am returning it (i purchased on a tv shopping channel that gives me that ability to return with no restocking fee). but, i do like the portability and long battery life. there is an hp pavilion dm1z that has an 11.6&quot; screen, 3g ram, 320g hard drive, and you can select a turion dual core processor for about $525. it only weighs in at 3.25 lbs. according to specs. i'm seriously considering this purchase since i would be able to multi-task, not be so frustrated by slowness, and still have portability.
