i recently purchased a second hard drive to add to my system. my old 40 gig simply wasn't able to handle it anymore. i plan on keeping this drive though and using the new one to store games, music, downloads, etc. i've gotten to the point where i'm ready to install the new drive and i have a few questions. should this drive be set up as the slave drive? would i need to format it in any way or can i just store things right off the bat? any other useful tips you would suggest? i'm running windows xp pro.
simply jumper it as slave and attach to the primary ide cable. then start you pc and check in the bios that the new hdd is recognized and then boot into xp and go to disk management. right-click the new hdd and create a new partition and then format it to ntfs before you can start using the hdd. if you want to you can create more partitions to suit your needs. if the drive letters are assigned after that for your cd-rw drive you cna use disk management to change the drive letters as you see fit. see these links:
just my preference, when i put in a second drive i always format it as a system disk and put an os on it too in case the other drive dies suddenly. i don't know xp but i always do &quot;cable select&quot; on the jumpers. works well for me and makes things easier and more versatile if you're &quot;the mess around with it&quot; type. i also always put in a second parition of about 1 gig so i can put my delorme map cd on that and not have to put it in the cd drive for it to work. ---fj
frank, fyi, i have a perly's road map cd which normally requires the cd to be in the cd-rom drive when searching for the road maps. i didn't have to create another partition to do what you did. i simply copy the contents to the perly's folder on the c drive and there after it works without the need for the cd. cheers.
so if i was to go the &quot;cable select&quot; route rather than master/slave, the cable select would be selected on both drives? how does the system know which drive to boot from? another issue i have thought of is the fact that i have a usb keyboard that is not &quot;active&quot; until i actually choose a profile. is this going to cause problems?
if you chose cable select you should attach the boot drive to the outer connector while the middle connector is for the second hdd.
well i've got it installed but i have a couple more questions. the keyboard issue came back to haunt me. i can't access the cmos thing to check the bios so i wasn't able to switch it to nfts. any way around this other than buying a different cheap keyboard? for now i simply booted from the main drive and did run--&gt;compmgmt.csm. the drive showed up but said it onle had 111gb free. it is a 120gb western digital hard drive. i seem to remember bob telling someone that it may be because its using a fat 32 setup. is this right? one more problem; the screw holes on the hard drive itself do not match up with the screw holes on my case. is this a big issue? other than those things, everything seems to be fine. i appreciate all the help. now i just need a tad bit more .
the screw holes on all cases and drives are in the exact same place, if yours don't line up you may have the drive backwards or incorrectly placed, drives just don't vary at all in where they have the holes. free space doesn't mean total space, how much space does it show total (capacity) when you right click on the drive and select properties. whatever number you see, multiply it by 1024x1024x1024 to get the actual size in bytes. in the case of a 111gb drive that comes out to 119.1 billion bytes, quite close to 120gb.
your questions on hdd size & screw holes have been answered. re your usb keyboard, since you can't use it to access the bios setup you'll have to get a ps/2 keyboard to do so. i noticed in my bios there is an option to enable legacy usb support. but that may not mean that the usb keyboard will let you access the bios setup. unfortunately i do not use a usb kb so i cannot test it. on switching to ntfs in bios setup...this is not the way it's done. you can boot into xp and use disk management to format the 120gb to ntfs. if there is data on it, don't format but use the conversion tool to convert the volume to ntfs. see this link:  or open the help & support center and research convert to ntfs.
the screw hole thing still baffles me. i'm telling you it doesn't match up. i know the drive is in correctly. i would take pics but i have nowhere to host them. why would i need to access the bios anyways? will it cause problems if i just go ahead and finish partitioning the drive without going into the bios settings?
thanks for the info, i think i once tried just putting it into a directory like you described but it didn't work-- it had to be in the root directory or no go. hence the partition. see ya! -fj
hi mike, am baffled by your lack of screw hole, that is very odd. anyway, re: cable select etc., you should have 2 ide connectors on your motherboard-- numbered (and you should see this on the board itself) 1 and 2. your cable (use the 80 pin!) has 3 plugs. the blue one that is mid-way on the cable is for the slave drive. note, whichever end of the cable is furthest away from that middle connector goes to the motherboard. the drive at the other end of the cable plugged into the ide #1 slot is for your primary master. (again, the the drive that uses the connector in the middle of the cable is the primary slave.) drives plugged into cable going to ide 2 are the secondary master and secondary slave. you'll see the drives being recognized with those names during the bios post. note the system usually hunts thru the drives in that order until it finds a disk it can boot from. another hint, if you have 2 drives, put the second drive and the cd rom on the secondary connector, leave the primary master all to itself on its own cable, may speed things up a little. clear as mud? - fj
adding a second hdd, i have lost all my daata doing things like this before... the program r-studio 2.0 works and saved my life recovering everything from my delted partition. whatever is your slave hdd make sure you move the little plastic thing on the pins in the middle of the hdd plugs (on the back) ninty degrees, so that it is no longer able to recognise that hard drive as a master... you can find out most of the info you need on replcing a hdd on the seagate site:
