i left the notebook turned on for the night, so and when i have woken up i noticed that it is just was hanged. anytime i tried to reboot it - it always stayed in the moment of staring up progress running and running for ages. i tried all variants of win7 booting up - results are the same, the only thing i could admit was the last string in &quot;start with command string support&quot; mode, and it was: &quot;loading classpnp.sys&quot;. this info doesn't give me anytinhg. i've tried to start from live cd, half of programs don't boot at all, mini windows xp, mini windows 7, acronis, smth else don't want to start. mhdd says that disk is very well, memory test likes whole 2gb.. well, it's strange, but live linux isn't capricious, well.. ubuntu set up fine without any problems at all.. i could save all info from installed ubuntu (funny..). finally, i wiped all hdd, guessing that maybe there were some errors in partitions or elsewhere, but... nope.. in search of truth i started pc check, and checked video memory, ram, and.. it hangs between memory test where there is system mem, cache mem, i don't undestand where exactly! so, mb, cpu or bios? i'll appreciate any of your answer, except &quot;warranty&quot;, &quot;guarantee&quot;, &quot;service center&quot;... thanks.
i don't see make, model, age, story so it sounds like a fried part but since it's a laptop (can't tell if it's some netbook?) i'm going to write to try another motherboard. bob
back cover title says it's msi-u210x, and it's not quite mine i could tell you an age, but bios ver - 2009 dec, so i can assume it's about 2-2.5 years.. and, i guess, you'll stand the point of changing mb whatever.. mmm, for me - to change mb is to give someone for repairing.. is here something i could change by myself?
and came away with that feeling it's the common few year netbook. the ati video in it was not known for its lack of issues (heat, etc.) try the generic reset in the forum at  but leave the battery out since it's likely to be the original and would be too old to be left in the machine. can cause board failures too. bob
well, i've reset the book with the method you described there(by the link) (thanx a lot) and it began to work as if nothing was happen.. so i inserted usb boot-flash with win 7 and before installation decided to find out what's the temperature of cpu, cause that terrible heat drives me crazy.. so, i started aida64 (ex everest, from the menu below the installation choice), and went to &quot;sensor information&quot;. i didn't manage to see any info, coz it freezed, but after rebooting i found out that book is yet again don't want to start, so i reset it again and it again began to live... so, one thing i recollected is that i installed aida64 about two hours before notebook hanged at first time... i don't think aida64 spoils hardware, but.. what can it be? 1) book is fine 2) starting aida64, looking for some info (first time it was stress-test or stability-test) 3) book is not fine, and only reset backs it to life 4) normal working at all.. o.o 5) again aida(simple sensor look up) and again failure till reset? now i work on it for about a day, installed all drivers, programs, nothing seems to be wrong at all... your opinion?
sorry but i only get a glimpse of that machine from what you write. it is a few years old from what i can tell and i don't write at first about using canned air because i hope that folk will tell me they did the usual cleaning. those temp measuring software can fail. nothing new here and i won't start yet another discussion. please remove such because its probing can cause a good machine to hang. now about that canned air. bob
