hello all! i'm new to this forum, so i'll try to be brief... i recently bought a new computer and have attempted to network it with my old one in my daughter's room. i ran the adsl modem to the top nic on my new computer, from the bottom nic to a 5 port ethernet hub, and from the hub to the network card on my old 'puter. at this point, i ran the xp network setup wizard. i have been told that this is not the ideal way to set up a home network, but it works. problem is, everytime i reboot my new computer, i lose my internet signal and have to release and renew my ip using command prompt. every time. a royal pain in the butt, since if i have no internet signal, neither does my daughter. also, i cannot run any third party firewall programs since, as soon as i install and activate one, it goes crazy detecting my old computer as a hijacking attempt. i do, however, use the xp firewall (for what it's worth) and have eliminated it as a source of the interruption. a friend informed me that my network should be cabled like this: adsl modem to hub, hub to each computer's nic. so, i re-cabled the set up and ran the xp wizard again but could not get it to work. i tried uninstalling and reinstalling all the network cards, borrowed a d-link di-704p router (wouldn't work in any configuration), and even did a system restore, all without any results. it will only work in the original set up. it's as if once you've run the wizard, all settings are set it stone. has anyone else had a similar problem like this? can anyone suggest a way to fix this problem? i don't really want to reformat both computers if i don't have to. any help in this matter would be greatly appreciated. here are my new rig's stats: amd athlon xp2800+ barton (2083mhz) cpu asus a7n8x2.0 deluxe mobo 512 mb ddr ram maxtor 80 gb hd nvidia geforce4 fx5200 vid card
&quot;a friend informed me that my network should be cabled like this: adsl modem to hub&quot; that's an invalid setup. go get a cable/dsl router and you'll be up in no time. bob
but how would i cable it with a router? as i indicated in my original post, i've tried a router with no luck.i had a techie friend come over to help me and after 2 hours, he stood up, scratched his head and said, &quot;reformat and start over&quot; then he walked out. i tried a hub as a last resort and it worked, albiet with the above problems. is there no way to run an adsl modem through a hub and have it work correctly?
for most, the setup is just like out of the box. and you follow the directions. what many may not know is that you must set the cable router up and may have to wait a day for the nic address to reset on the cable network. too bad you didn't persevere on the router. &quot; is there no way to run an adsl modem through a hub and have it work correctly?&quot; yes, but you'll have to pay for extra accounts and ip addresses. it's very expensive and when it's all done, you can't share file systems or printers. bob
have you solved the problem yet? i have a college degree in computer science (including n+ class) and i use the d-link di-704p (the black one, not the brown one) on my dsl with three computers at home. a hub isn't really for connecting to the internet, rather for connecting segments of a network together. some hubs only have ports to connect computers together in a peer-to-peer environment, not to another source such as a dsl modem. what hub are you using, and can you tell me what ports you are using? also, i can tell you a router is much faster than a hub. a router remembers what is plugged into each port, a hub just broadcasts the data to every machine that is connected to it. if you have a packet for computer #1, instead of the hub saying this is for #1 so i'll send it there, it plays &quot;mail call&quot; like you see in old war movies. &quot;i have mail for computer #1!!&quot; &quot;ok, i'm over here at mac address xx-xx-xx-xx-xx-xx.&quot; &quot;alright. here comes your mail&quot;. a router says &quot;i've delivered to computer #1 before, so i'll just use the same connection and send it there again&quot;. which would you say is faster? plus, most routers have a firewall built in (the d-link di-704p does). a hardware firewall is much better than any software firewall. why? a hardware stops attacks/probes/unsolicited packets before it arrives at your computer, even before it gets into your network. where is a software firewall stored? inside your machine. any unwanted data much reach a point inside your machine before it is stopped. to some degree, it has already infiltrated into your computer. and it's totally already on your network. go with the router, and you'll be better off. i can help you out if you need in getting it set up and configured. i usually don't offer free services, but i will this time since i work with the same router every day.
