i have an hp pavilion computer with windows me operating system. it is connected to an hp deskjet 932c printer. for a while now, when i print in color, i find that i get pink and black, but no blue and yellow. i uninstalled and then reinstalled the printer. i used the toolbox to clean the cartridges and recalibrate the printer. since this has happened with two cartridges, bought at separate times, i don't think it's a cartridge problem. i have also cleaned the surfaces around the cartridge with a damp rag. nothing has worked thus far. any suggestions would be most appreciated.
hello ruthinor, after going through the issue, i understood the issue could be with the printer copper contacts. if the copper contacts get damaged, such issue occurs. i have some steps to clean the copper contacts of the printer. i am providing them below, pelase perform them: note: you will need a clean, dry, soft, lint free cloth, cotton swabs and distilled water. (use of cleaning agents or cleaning alcohol may damage the electrical contacts.) 1. power on the printer and raise the printer's top cover. wait for the carriage to stop. 2. unplug the power cord from the back of the printer. 3. remove the ink cartridges from the cradles and place them on their sides (with the widest side down) onto a scrap piece of paper. caution: keep the print cartridges out of the reach of children and make sure that the cartridges are not kept outside the printer for more than 30 minutes. 4. ensure that the copper flex circuitry on the back of the cartridge is intact and not damaged. black hp no. 45 (hp 51645 series) tri-color hp no. 78 (hp c6578 series) 5. clean the cradle contacts: a. position yourself at eye level with the printer. b. locate the cradle that holds the ink cartridge. c. using clean, moistened swabs, wipe the underside of each wall of the carriage where fibers may collect and come in contact with the paper. repeat until no ink residue is seen on a clean swab. 6. clean the print cartridges: a. grasp the top of the black print cartridge. b. wipe the copper-colored strip on the back of the cartridge with the dry cloth. use an upward motion, from the nozzle end to the top of the cartridge. wipe the contacts only once. c. dip a clean cotton swab into distilled water and squeeze the excess water from the swab. d. clean the face and edges of the inkjet print cartridge. do not wipe the nozzle plate. caution: be careful not to touch the ink nozzles on the bottom of the cartridge or the copper contacts on the back of the print cartridge with the wet swab. touching these parts of the print cartridge can result in clogs, ink failure, or bad electrical connection. e. hold the print cartridge up to the light to inspect for fibers on the face and edges. if fibers are still present, repeat steps (c) and (d). f. repeat steps (a) through (e) with the tri-color print cartridge, using a clean, moistened cotton swab to avoid any contamination. 7. reinstall the ink cartridges and ensure that the cartridge latch is in the &quot;lock&quot; position. 8. close the printer's top cover. 9. reconnect the power cord to the back of the printer. this should resolve the issue. reply me with the result. arun.
have the same situation on an hp 952c printer, magenta and black prints, nothing else. new cartridge installed, same thing. tried everything yadev suggested with no success. contacts on back of carriage and cartidge appear perfect. anything else?
i have the same problem on a hp 7755 - no yellow. i have just changed the printer & cartridge and still have the problem ! i reckon it must be the power supply as it's the only remaining common item. i'm trying to source another one.
try downloading the drivers for your printer off the hp site according to your os. if you use a windows 98 driver for your windows xp it may not function correctly.
i do suggest using a soft toothbrush and some alcohol, dip brush and gingerly brush the carriage contact area. wipe with a clean cloth or shop towel, leave no towel residue, repeat 2-3 times, allow to dry. return ink cart, but you should wipe ink cart contacts as well. test and check results. best done with new ink cart. if results are the same, possible bad carraige cable harness or electronics on logic(rare), in eiither case, the repair cost if no warranty will suggest buy new printer. i thought any s/w issues if the test pattern hp uses fails.  further, a complete tear down to fully inspect and clean innards maybe a last resort, but usually doesn't help, but access to clean unseen areas. tada -----willy
