what does ssd speed up? while i said the performance difference is enormous, it is still limited to certain tasks. it can't speed your encoding times because the drive is not the bottleneck, it's most likely the cpu. in games, it may speed up game loading times but the actual frame rate and graphics will not be improved, again because the drive is not the bottleneck. ssd will speed up anything that involves reading or writing of the drive. tasks like that include but are not limited to: booting, launching apps and file transfers. people say that the os feels more responsive with an ssd, which can be true because your slow hd was the bottleneck before. if your os is in the ssd, then the swap file will be there too so in case you run out of ram, the system shouldn't feel as unresponsive as with an hd because the ssd is so fast. which ssd to buy? i again want to start off by saying that there is no single answer to this. it all depends on your budget, needs and mac. here are a few things to consider: 1. capacity. how much capacity are you going to need? this is the number one element in determining what ssd to buy. 2. budget. this could be the first one too but in my opinion, it is useless to buy an ssd that cannot fulfill your needs. 3. mac. different macs have different sata revisions and even different drive form factors. you should buy one that is the most suitable for your mac. 4. usage. for general usage, it won't matter much what ssd you get but if you are getting an ssd for serious work, then it can be crucial to get one with the best performance.
an ssd speeds up an awful lot of tasks including encoding/decoding and such things as data compression and decompression, even when the source and target data itself are stored on an hdd. this is because compilers and compression apps like c++, winzip and quickpar furiously read and write temp files that you never see to and from whatever drive on which their executables reside, and their performance is shockingly faster when they reside on an ssd. ssds also speed up graphics applications like photoshop and paintshop pro similarly for a similar reason, even when the files themselves -- including your scratchpad area -- are all read from and written to an hdd. this writing of temp files to disk takes place even when your computer has great heaping gobs of fast ram operating nowhere near its capacity (my own has 32 gb of ddr3-2133 ram). generally speaking, 128 gb is sufficient for your o/s and a reasonable amount of application files, although 240-256 gb provides welcome headroom and flexibility. just make sure that your user data files, including your application data files and those &quot;temp&quot; files that you actually see in your folders, are on hdds or you will fill up the ssd's capacity quickly. this requires some work to configure your computer's file/folder structure properly, but it's worth it. all of your applications will boot faster and feel crisper, although your internet performance will not improve much (a little, but not much). and your computer will boot from cold each morning so fast that your jaw will drop. there is reportedly an issue with longevity with ssds resulting from a limitation on write cycles. i have never yet encountered this problem even after years of use, but i take care to store only worm (write once, read mostly) files, like o/s files and application executables, on my ssd. i would recommend getting at least 128 gb, and preferably 256. more is always better. i would get the highest performance drive from the most reputable manufacturer that you can afford. intel, ocz, and sandisk have pretty good track records here. i have had particularly good luck with the ocz vertex series, which tends to be among the highest performers at a fairly reasonable price point.
very good point, hadn't thought of apps writing temp files and probably wouldn't have but you are absolutely correct. this should only serve to expand on phonenet's comment though as those statements are theoretically largely true - until its taken wider of course as flatworm just did. i am investigating ssd's as well and aware of the longevity concerns. i remember when optical disks (cdrw) were seen as permanent archival solutions - time has shown that to be.... well....inaccurate. for now i think i will use an ssd for os only (so swap, temp files etc can utilize it), once i settle on one. with that in mind 128g would be enough for me.
