i bought this hard drive to back up my family's 8 years worth of photos for safe keeping. only 3 days later the drive crashed. i've contacted toshiba and no matter what, they wont stand behind their product. below are the responses i get from them... hello, unfortunately, i cannot help you on this matter. please contact my supervisor for any concerns. sholeen chaudhary toshiba oa dept supervisor schaudhary@pcs-sj.com (510)651-6798 dear customer, toshiba is not liable for any loss data. you will need to take it to a data recovery center to have your data removed. regards, sholeen chaudhary toshiba oa dept supervisor schaudhary@pcs-sj.com (510)651-6798 i understand their &quot;liability&quot; issue...all i'm asking them is for some help. i have no back ups. i have no other way to retrieve these pictures. i have my baby's photos, christmas's, soccer games, everything...i don't know what else to do. i don't have the money to take it to a recoverey center. i just want my pictures back. i wish i would have backed them up on cds or something, but i thought an external drive would work best...man was i mistaken. i've tried everything...any advice from anyone?? i will never buy another toshiba product again. if i can steer one person away from them as well, so be it. what happen to customer service?
they should replace the drive. that's what they make and will usually make good on that. you have the data. it is your data, not theres and you must safeguard it with a backup plan. -&gt; let's go over a good backup plan. 1. 3 copies. 2. a copy away from the other 2 copies. if you decide not to maintain backups this is your choice. -&gt; let's note a fine company that you can talk to next -&gt;  in closing, read that warranty again. it does not cover any data loss. bob
sorry about your loss. never have only one copy of anything stored digitally if at all possible. i have so many photos that i could not keep them all on my laptop. moved them to two different external drives, so there are two copies. one of the drives is portable and i carry to work each day...just per chance something happens at home. next step is to burn to dvds...over 50 gb of data, so that will be at least 10-12 full dvd-rs. but after hearing your story and others, i'm going to spend the time doing just that. of course, the dvds have a shelf life too! as to toshiba's liability: i'm afraid that no drive maker eve warranties against loss of data, only the repair/replacement of the hardware.
