hi can anyone tell me how to connect hotspot shield automatically on startup of windows xp by checking the option to show on startup it starts on the tray but doesn't connect is there a command line or something to do to connect it automatically ? thanks
&quot;hotspot shield protects your entire web surfing session; securing your connection at both your home internet network & public internet networks&quot; since it's not involved with connection to your hotspot, i have to write that you may have to re-think and re-submit your question. bob
yes i know and agree with you but i just ask how to let hotspot shield connect to any free and available server automatically on startup of the computer without clicking on the button to connect.
this will be quite a feat. you may be asking how to set your wifi connection to connect automatically but you seem to think this hotspot shield does that. i have tripled check what hotspot shield does and it does not manage the connections. bob
hi bob, i think i understand what samibytn is trying to accomplish. hot spot sheild is a vpn client used to secure your internet traffic. what he would like to have happen is for the hotspot sheild vpn client to connect automatically upon system startup. i would assume that he/she already has an active internet connection and would just like to establish a connection to the vpn. samibytn let me know if this is what you meant as i am also seeking a solution to this issue. regards
but it does not manage the wifi connection which is done with other tools. they have it running but it seems they are confused on how to get xp to find and connect to available wifi. bob
hi cruzer yes this is what i want to do i have already an internet connexion and i want to establish a vpn client connexion at startup i put firefox on the startup and using trayit it starts minimized on the tray and now hotspot is able to connect at startup if you want more let me know
hi samibytn, did you say you got hotspot shield to connect at startup? if so, please tell me how.
