hello, i apologize for my terrible english, thank you for reading and help me. i am using window vista, dsl internet. my internet for the past week is not good. throughout the whole day my internet fluctuates, up and down fluctuates speed all day. my dsl download speed always been good, i always get 300kb/sec stable speed, until last week suddenly it start to drop from 300kb/sec down to 6kb/sec, this is a big change, something is definately wrong. i call my verizon dsl, they do a line test on their side and they say my modemn recieve good signal, also the dsl light on my modemn is always solid, so i am sure it recieve good signal. so if nothing is wrong on their side, maybe it my computer hardware? i also do a safe mode networking with verizon, i run my computer in safe mode networking, and the internet speed still drop dramatically starting from 300kb/s down to 6kb/s . since i am on safe mode networking and this problem still exist, it is definately not any software conflict. i also scan my computer with numerous of anti-virus from norton, mcafee, kaspersky, housecall, esset, including malwarebyte and lavasoft, and found nothing!!!!! no virus, no spyware, nothing!!! so all that has rules out, now the only option left i can think of is something wrong with my vista hardware. how can i know if something is wrong with my hardware? can anyone please hlep me. something is wrong, i just cannot figure out what it is. thank you so much!!
and many other discussions find this. you also listed more than one antivirus so you could have left your machine with some conflicts. i find those forums that read hijackthis logs (google that!) to often help you clean up that mess. bob
hello, i tis not anti virus problem. those anti-virus i use are just online scanner that i use to scan my computer. after i done scan, it all have been uninstal. the only one antivirus i have in my computer is norton, and i know is not norton problem because i have use norton for many years. i have try update all the drives (it say all your drive to up to date) and i try unplugging modemn for like 2 hours and plug it back in. the verizon dsl also reset my whole modemn, and the problem still persist. (so it definately not modemn issue) something is going on in my computer. it is not software issue since i have try safe mode networking many times, and my internet speed still fluctuates, so this rule out the software conflict problem. i scan my computer with all of these: norton, mcafee, kaspersky, housecall, esset, including malwarebyte and lavasoft, and found nothing!! if there is a virus in my computer, then it super powerful then since all of these anti-virus cannot even detect them. (unlikely it is virus issue) my computer is very hot though, and it have some sound like something is running inside. maybe my computer is overheated? how to know if the nic or network card inside my computer is not working correctly? my internet is so slow right now, i am so frusterated, thank you for helping me.
you don't want to know how many times i've read that then we get the hijackthis log to find out it's still there. -&gt; there is another test i use and that's to boot up a live cd call ubuntu. no install and i can test the connection. as to what you know about norton, sadly they did change how it works so can we skip all this back and forth about it's not that? -&gt; and not a word about that cord mentioned in the other discussion? why not? bob
oh sorry, i understand now. but how can i do the hijackthis log? how can i get the hijack log? sorry i am not very good with computer. thank you
did you try a shorter cord from the dsl modem to the wall as noted in that other discussion? about the hijackthis log. it's not for everyone and while i really like what it shows it is advanced skill to read it. i want to be humble here and write i do know a bit about this but am not as expert as those that do this all the time. example at  again, while i do read such things, it's usually only to point out the obvious items. even you could run that tool and see if any item is left over from norton, mcafee and the like. usually easy to spot. try it. but ask others about this (see the link in this post!!!) before you delete it. bob
sounds as if bob has you heading in the right direction already but have you checked items running at startup? go to start, then run type msconfig press enter, when system configuration comes up, look in startup to see if that might not be some of the issue.
i have check all those already. i also do a test on safe mode networking, and it is still same, so the problem is nothing with startup software. safe mode networking is when no software start up, it only use the basic window system to start your computer. even in safe mode, my speed still fluctuates, like right now i only have 15kb/sec , very very slow. thank you bob, i head over there to see if i can get any help, and i look more into the hijackthislog, thank you sir.
