what equipment is required to do vpn? can you just use the two computers you want to network? -thanks
no special equipment is needed. if your running xp on both ends, the necessary protocols are already there. you simply need to set up the vpn.
so, i would like to connect to a server at my school. do i need to set it up here, and at the school?
the school's server needs to allow incoming vpn connections. you then need to create a vpn connection on your pc. your vpn will find the remote server via ip address or fqdn -fully qualified domain name.
so, just out of curiosity can you set up vpn between two different computers. say like have two xp home editions connect without a server, just the pc? for an example say you wanted to connect to a relatives computer through vpn. could you do this with just the pc and dsl?
this would work fine if the computer has a static ip address. you could still connect without having a static ip but you would have to call the relative each time you want to connect and have them tell you the current ip address. some isp's don't offer static addresses or they charge you more for the convenience. but if they have a static ip, simply create a vpn on your computer and then configure the relative's computer to act as a vpn server.
how do you find the ip address? also, how do you configure as a vpn server? -thanks, i very much appreciate your posts!!!
ok, i found the ip addresses and both of our computers have in our home have the same one. will this be the same as on the schools computers if i want to connect to a school server? -thanks
it's qite simple. open network connections from control panel. under network tasks, click, create a new connection. the wizard appears and you simply follow the prompts. choose to set up an advanced connection. regarding finding ip addresses -open command prompt and type ipconfig /all to see info relating to all the network connections you have. or simply ipconfig if there is only 1 computer.
hello, i want set up vpn connection over more computers and more ip, is there any one who know more about this. would be great! send me a message and ill respond quick back to you.
