hi currently i am using the lacie 2 big qudra 1 tb actually it holds 2 hard drives of 500 gb each my question: is it possible to upgrade and replace the hard drives to an 2 tb each so i will have 4 tb total. i notided that lacie have the same model with 4 tb hard drives. i askd lacie support and got the answer that it might not work as the computer wont recognise the drives. cant understand why ? haim
the internal controller components might or not be the same or of the same firmware revision. if lacie released the two products at precisely the same time, i'd think your chances are better. if the bigger disk was released later, your chances of success grow slimmer.
i replaced them with 1.5 tb drives each. no luck. funny thing is, the techs at lacie told me: &quot;you can replace a 500gb drive with drives of other sizes, but it will only recognize the smaller drive.&quot; oh yeah? and replacing them with 2 larger drives does what, exactly? if they were honest, they would have told us both up front, that the computer would only recognize the original size drive, no bigger. they did get more of my money, but at what cost, lacie? do you ever think i will buy another over-priced drive? i thought i was buying from a quality company, not one with customer service nood-nicks who didn't know their products...
there is a real hd limit with both involved that a controller can'thandle above 3tb using old h/w. all those newer 3gb hds or combo need a supplied i/f card or adapter in order to get things going. as each maker/vendor can cutomize a setup, changing whatever the hd setup could cause issues. while, i don't have the specs for each, the quick test is simply install them and try to use the new hds. if it doesn't work, then you come back and tell the outcome. the physcial part of swapping the hds out isn't hard to do but will it work. alas, maybe googling elsewhere could supply a hack on the topic. afterall, its going to be a proper subject as these hds become more cheaper. also, understand that customize may mean also a limited setup as it won't support larger or outside what it was sold as to deter end-user upgrades. tada ------willy
