i just have a quick question. does anyone know if these printers that say direct usb photo printing or pc-free photo printing will also print documents? i've got no experience with this and can't confirm it either way. i know the more expensive ones will print documents, but i am hoping to find a sub $200 multifunction printer that can print documents via a usb flash drive. thank you!
it should certainly be in the specs if they were able to render an xxx document (for xxx read: pdf, .docx, wordperfect 9, abiword, odt, .xlsx etc) without a pc to tell them about the fonts and having the word or excel or wordperfect or openoffice reader to do the rendering work. which means: i don't think it exists. kees
it is not possible for doc printing on such a printer today because the rendering of the doc depends on the user's printer settings (in windows), the fonts on the host machine that can affect rendering and more. pdf can side step this so can you use pdf? bob
thanks that makes sense. i did end up calling hp and epson. epson said no, but the hp guy told me that their officejet 8500aplus can print pdf's and maybe doc files. he said you can email doc files to the printer. i don't know, but it makes sense about the fonts and other rendering issues. if i get one and try it i'll update this thread with the results. thanks guys (or girls).
the main reason for these printers as i know it is to provide pc free access to print. in other words, no pc is needed, it is a &quot;stand-alone&quot; device which is great as you to place some memory card or such and allow the printer to start a &quot;photo print&quot; from that source. what you want or appears is basically a dual mode operation. in effect a printer as always attached to a pc but has the provided ports to attach a memory card and start printing , again on its own. what, if available is entirely should be explained in the specs of the printer reviewed. if attached as a pc type printer you would think it still prints from the pc side as before but if on a memory card, will it? that's the question you wanted answered. this would be a feature they would want listed. if all it provides is photo output when on memory card, then no docs, etc.., is supported. tada -----willy
