these 2 monitors are on ebay for the exact same price ($119.99w/free shipping), and i would like to know which would be the best bang for my buck. again, they are the asus ve228h, and the viewsonic vx2250wm. please do not recommend me any other monitor, unless you can find it in the same price range. if you can find a better monitor with dvi, hdmi inputs and a 1080p resolution under $119 altogether then please tell me. thanks.
i never would buy a monitor without having seen it in a store. i think both brands are great although i have a slight personal preference for asus. when you buy on ebay, i assume you're buying a used monitor which is something i would definitely avoid. i've seem too many refurbished ones go bad. ` good luck.
i've been on ebay for a while now. and trust me, when i see most used items, i only bite if i see detailed pictures and detailed descriptions. both, of these used monitors provide that, and they have a top rated seller seal too. i'll provide the links so you can see for yourself. i don't need any advice really (no disrespect intended). and since these monitors are not in current mainstream, my local stores would not have them to view. i would just like someones though on the specs for each monitor. i am not very knowledgeable when it comes to monitor specs. so at least, please, look up the specs for each monitor and tell me which one comes out on top. thank you.
place i use to see what other buyers of pc products say about them.  let us know. vapcmd
verdict (according to the specifications): the asus comes out on top in my opinion. *they are both equally matched on the core spec side. these are the minor differences.* gaming friendly asus viewsonic yes no display type asus viewsonic lcd led screen surface asus viewsonic glossy matte vertical refresh rate asus viewsonic 76hz 75hz inputs asus viewsonic dvi dvi hdmi vga vga thats all i can gather. if anyone can debate my choice/verdict. please do. i'm open to question.
asus with no red x takes the price in my view.
and $19 in the bank.
newegg says that the asus ve228h won the &quot;customer choice award winner,hdmi,d-sub,dvi,arr &quot;.  imma go with this. thank you all!
