i know the steps of trfansfering vhs tapes to my computer. however, there are a few individuals in my life that don't have a clue or really want to get that involved and need something simplier. i know there was a device a few years ago that allowed someone to copy a vhs tape to dvd that was not a regular dvd/vhs recorder. this was portable and not much bigger than the actual vhs cassette. has anyone heard of this or have info on it? thanks
or maybe i don't understand the whole story.
just another dvd recorder in the small form factor. big claims about ease of use so i bet many paid dearly for the lesson.  covers the 5 most common methods.
thanks for the article - i guess the best option might be getting them an external dvd burner. but now my question would be - what type of file would be created doing this? mpeg 4?
the easiest ones create &quot;bog standard video dvds.&quot; which are mostly mpeg 2. anything else would create compatibility headaches. bob
pinnacle makes a device for that purpose, it is called a &quot;dazzle&quot;, look into that..
this is for an end-user that really didn't want to get a pc involved in doing transfers. originally i was asking about something portable that could do this function - i saw it on a shopping channel a few years ago but i couldn't find it so i guess i will either have to talk them into dazzle or tell them to forget it
there are devices that can do that. see here, for one that is fairly modern:  here is a cnet article but they are all old devices now:  of course, one could always pay someone else to do the conversions. depending on where you live, the local drug store may provide that service on a &quot;per tape&quot; basis. and, if you are not allergic to using ebay, you might find a device that someone bought to do vhs tapes and got theirs all done and now offer the device for sale.
i actually found what i'm looking for i think - on ebay - it's an older version of a sony product - they have more up to date versions available but this one will work for now: please wait image not available sony dvdirect vrd-mc5
the description you originally stated. good luck.
