i have a compaq presario desktop system with a ram slot free, and i'm trying to install a stick of ddr ram. first of all, whoever designed the internals of that computer needs to be fired; they put the ram slots right behind a big bundle of cables that really doesn't move much, so it's hard to get the ram chip into the right area in the first place without grabbing it in a potentally damaging manner, especally with the wrist strap on. so i manage to manuver the ram in, push it into the slot, flip the white switches, and turn the computer on. it boots fine, but windows only detects the original 512 mb of ram instead of 1 gb like it's supposed to. so i shut down and make sure the ram's in tight, then try again. 512. i shut down, pull the ram out, flip it, and it doesn't go in. (i don't know if that's because ram only goes in one way or because i wasn't positioning it right. it's hard to tell with the huge cable in the way. so i flip it back around to the way i had it at first, plug it back in, flip the white clips, and turn it on. the system makes a horrible buzzing noise, so i shut it back off and pull the spare power cable-- at least, i hope it's a spare power cable-- away from the cooling fan and tuck it up away from any moving parts. (whoever designed this thing needs to be shot.) then i turn it on again. 512. um... any suggestions?
and exactly what ram did you buy for it ?
im no techie but.... i have two computers: one old and one a little newer. when i went to add ram i first checked my mother board specs to find my old puter only supported up to 256ram and my old but newer one only supports up to 512ram. so no matter what config. i used i never got more than the supported amount of ram. fyi. im asumming you are using the correct type of ram? i was 'told' that sometimes using two different brands of ram may not play well together as well. once i made sure i had the correct amount,speed, and type of ram i did install one single stick (as opposed to two of 1/2 capicity) and did see a small improvement however thats all im going to get. fyi. good luck, ken
go here  this website will tell you what the best peice of ram to get and whats compatable, you dont have to buy their product just write the information down about the type of ram and your good to go
vapcmd is right, reply back with the model number of the pc and that may help us track down your problem. sometimes older pcs require a bios upgrade to recognize more memory than they were originally intended to use. it's also possible the old memory module brand and new one won't work together (brand conflicts). but before you get too far into that, post the model number and we can most likely help. the model is either printed on the front of the pc or somewhere on the back, like presario 2400, 8100, etc. the ddr modules will only go in one way due to the slots near the gold leads, so don't force it. digitalmoose
compaq presario has sdr ram and not ddr
