when i bought my canon bubblejet i560 the guy threw in a usb connector. after wasting an hour and one half i discarded it and loaded the drivers and other stuff from disc using the big bulky parallel? cable. it went flawlessly. is the usb cable really to connect printer and computer or for something else?
many are unaware how to get their usb ports working.  covers it well with bios enabling, and drivers you install for the motherboard, os and more that microsoft does not do for you. today's consumers didn't expect this. bob
never had any trouble configuring mouse, keyboard or digital camera upload to usb port. can't understand why canon provides parallel and usb connections on back of printer and then it's impossible to set up the printer for usb using their supplied disc. even tried web page driver download with similar lack of success. now have spare usb cord.
you may not have reviewed the web link i provided. many consumers are ill prepared for usb issues. there's not much more i can offer with what you have written. and you didn't exclaim &quot;omg!&quot; with all the usb madness there is with all the chipset issues out there. just because a camera works means nothing. usbman sheds light on this. bob
i just went to your usbman link, bob. didn't mention it but my os is win/me. long list of usb issues there according to usbman.
i am also using winme and my new canon printer didnt even have any hookup except for the usb line. any ideas for me?
a repeating issue for windows owners is that usb doesn't mean it works.  covers most reasons, but here's the two i see a lot. first the usb ports must be enabled in the bios, second many machines require motherboard or usb drivers that are not supplied by microsoft. a new annoyance is that microsoft offers a driver through windows update that is inferior to what the vendor/maker offers. with what information you supplied, only this generic advice can be offered. you have to research usbman because i don't duplicate web content in the forums. bob
