my computer was dropped and the frame bent. a friend gave me his, older one, until i can fix mine. here's the prob: his computer's hard drive has some sort of virus or spyware prob that is causing rundll32 and explorer ipf errors and i simply can't think any more to resolve. i used to know much more about puters, but have suffered brain injury which cause difficulties so....i need help remembering...step-by-step...how to install my hard drive into his computer. his hard drive has win98se on it, but mine has winxp. can i somehow keep both hard drives? that would be preferable as i would then re-format his to clean up the prob. if not, then i'll just pull his and replace it with mine. so...help please, with easy, step-by-step directions? thank you
if you slave your xp harddrive to his, w98se won't be able to see anything on it unless somebody created that xp drive to be fat32 instead of ntfs. but, if it is fat32, then w98se will be able to see the xp drive and you will be able to access stuff on that drive. you cannot pop that xp drive in as master in order to hook the w98se drive as the slave because of the activation issue.....xp will know immediately that none of the originally installed hardware matches up with what's in that other computer and won't boot up. you will have to then reinstall xp, and probably have to call ms to get it reactivated....and this is just a temporary solution since you plan to get your other system fixed that got dropped and you would have to go through the reactivation process all over again. i would suggest instead that you wait until your computer is fixed.....and then if the motherboard or cpu had to be replaced, you would only have to reactivate xp once since xp will see the computer as a brand new system. if only a couple of things like video or soundcard has to be replaced during the fix, you wouldn't have to reactivate at all. toni
if his has a virus on it think more than twice about putting yours in even if it would work. chances are you'd end up with the virus on your drive.
