i have a windowsme pc that has a box in the middle of the screen that says &quot;video cable connected?&quot; it appeared out of nowhere. the screen is black & red with this box in the center. the screen looks like a tv when the cable goes out or no signal. you can hear the programs loading up ibut nothing appears. this was my pc and i gave it to my son. he has alot of programs morphous downloads music, hotmail,all that stuff. i did take the pc back to original state after i gave it to him but it still isn't working correctly. i don't know if this is fixable or should i just get another pc? all he wants is something to make cds and play games. any suggewstions would be appreciated. thank you for your time
and have a monitor with a miss worded message for not receiving a signal i had one that would say on signal [should have been no lol]. some of these messages are in pidgen english. the all he wants is &quot;something to play games&quot; is a little humorous because gaming demands the better range of computers, not the castoffs. graphics also create high demands for a better computer. first try reseating the video card, make sure all connections are good.
here's why. the chernobyl virus actually was a fine example where the flash bios could be erased. this virus didn't survive long, but did teach a lesson. the use of morpheous is a great way to learn the brutal lesson that such software is like crack cocaine for your pc. if you run such, you may get burned! nuff written about that. your post is far too lightwieght. no mention if the unit powers ups and beeps. bob
the unit does power up and i can hear programs loading. it does make some noise wouldn't say it's a beep. i am not a computer whiz so unless the fix is rather easy not sure i can do it. thank you
the unit gets power and you think it's loading the os but the display never shows any bios or other indication other than the connect cable or similar. that means you test the display on another machine and another display on this machine. tell what happens? bob
