laptop: windows 7 pro desktop: windows 7 pro -external hd i currently have all my files on my laptop being backed up over the network to an external hd. i would like to purchase a portable hd to put older files that i'm not currently using onto. so on my internal hd i would have my important everyday files. i would like to have my internal hd and the portable hd backed up automatically to the external hd. any suggestions?
if you drive a copy of a file down to one copy then there is no backup. two copies is barely a backup since one loss and you fall into a state of no backup. this is all very old it rules and lore but worth going over again and again until we feel like it's good enough. many folk have no backup at all. there are dozens of backup softwares out there. i continue to use syncback and goodsync. now a little use of dropbox as well. bob
any current new ext. hd is going to fit the bill, find the size that suits you(maybe multiple ext. hds). you then need to be sure you have more than one back-up. while back-ups for the end user has become more easier and/or at ease to do, it still follows convention to plan for multiple copies and/or areas to save to. so, as stated by robert don't fall only the ext. hd only plan. be sure to copy super critical data to at least some discs(cd/dvd/bd) as yet another storage media. tada -----willy
using an internet backup application like carbonite or mozy facilitates transparent offsite backup. i use both of these (on different computers), and aside from making sure that the right stuff gets backed up, once files are part of your internet backup you don't need to think about them until you need to restore them. and if your computer and onsite backups gets stolen or destroyed in a fire (heaven forfend *smile*), you still have your irreplaceable files backed up. also very useful when getting a replacement computer ready for use. your files are protected by encryption while they're on the internet, so you don't even have to worry about that. you can provide your own encryption key, as well. and the costs are comparable to an external usb or esata disk. i like this option a lot, as you may be able to tell *smile*. i also backup to an external hard disk, and sometimes put stuff on a cd or dvd.
