i have a new inspiron e1505 that i want to hook up to this router i just purchased: srx200 wireless-g broadband routers with srx (wrt54gx2) and then network with an older laptop dell latitude c600. i currently have powerlink highspeed internet that was initially installed with my old dell latitude c600. ideally i would like to have a network with the old dell and the router (wired) and the new inspiron (wireless). i wanted to know of any tips before getting started, neither laptop has been configured for any type of network, both laptops have windows xp. i am not sure which &quot;wizard&quot; to run first: windows network, wireless wizard or the installation cd w/ the router software. thanks!
make sure what you have.. did you have a modem only (only have one port).. or a modem router (have more than one port.. usually 4).. try to connect your new router to the modem (or to the router if you already have one before) follow the instruction on installing the router.. if you already have a router (with your modem) then disable the dhcp on the new router ... and change the default ssid name.. do not configure any security yet.. after that you need to update the router firmware... (downloaded from linksys website) then try to connect your new inspiron... if it is connected and you can browse the internet.. you might want to try the security setting... one step at a time.. now look and choose, how you should connect the devices.. modem --&gt; wireless router --&gt; pc's (wired or wireless) modem router -- wireless router --&gt; pc's (wired or wireless)
i previously was using just the modem w/one port...
installing the router.. usually you need to install the new router drivers first.. do not connect the router yet. (you have to choose one of your computer to do this) again after you insert the drivers cd, follow the instruction.. you may need to restart the computer.. then you have to connect your computer to the new router... using a cable (wired) -- still do not connect the router to the modem yet.. -- you might want to change the ssid name here.. but do not use any security option yet.. now, when your computer can detect the router.. and you get an ip address .. turn off everything.... and connect your router to the modem, and also connect your computer to the router.. using cable (wired) and turn on the modem first... wait for all the light are stabilized... then turn on the router.. and wait for the light stabilized... now you can turn on your computer ... try it, if you can browse the internet.. then you need to go to the linksys website and download the firmware for your router.. (if available.. look at your firmware version) after you update the firmware. then you can try to disconnect the cable from your computer to router.. and try wireless.. (if you use the wireless capable computer to do the set up -- if you use your dell, then just try your inspiron wirelessly) the point here is to follow the instruction on the manual .. as much as possible...
tell me something, why is it that you're asking this woman to update the firmware on a brand new router when the device has no problems whatsoever? disable dhcp? for what? you're creating more confusion and an extra set of instructions this woman does not need. did you also forget that she needs to clone the mac address on the modem? again, do not upgrade the firmware on the router, if it ain't broke don't fix it.
doesn't mean have the latest firmware. disable dhcp.. only if she already a modem router combo. clone modem mac address??? not necessary..
unless you're having a problem with the router should you need to update the firmware.
well the good news is i was able to install the router with the new inspiron being wired as instructed in the installation cd. when i connected to linksys to register there was new firmware to be installed which i did download, but then i didn't know how to run it (didn't know which program to use). unfortunately i lost my powerlink internet connection (which appears to be a reoccuring problem with our cable provider this week in the evening hours) so hopefully tonight i will be able to try connecting wirelessly with the inspiron and then do the installation of the router on the old dell wired. wish me luck!
if you don't care.. its your problem.. by the way, continue to help her, if you can.. i have to go out of town..
as of the firmware installation, you can look in the manual or the linksys website...
i want all the bug fixes and added functionality of the latest firmware. after struggling with too many failed connections with factory installed firmware, i always update the firmware early in the process. the idea of not updating motherboard firmware (bios) until you need to is usually good advice, but network hardware and especially routers seem to have trouble keeping up with more rapidly changing standards. side issue: anyone willing to claim that there is hastily coded firmware on some of these models? i wonder sometimes.
