i have a network with the following components: toshiba satellite 1005-s157 laptop w/xp dlink dfe 690txd nic for laptop dlink di 524 wireless router (using wired connections only) sbc dsl speedstream 5100 modem win 98 desktop with compaq nc3121 fast ethernet nic i also use zone alarm and avg and frequently check for spyware various ways . turning off the firewall completely does not help after turning on my computers, sometimes i am able to get internet access and sometimes not. i can power cycle the modem and/or router and get it (sometimes this takes several tries but ultimately i can get on). the laptop occasionally will tell me a lan connection is unplugged (nic lights go out) and then a few seconds later lights come on internet is restored. ive tried a different router (new) and a different nic (new) for the laptop but get the same symptoms. ive tried setting up the network again also but still no changes. sometimes when i turn on a pc i will get an internet connection and sometimes not. i generally get better luck with the laptop than the desktop. i also can usually get immediate internet connection by plugging a computer directly into the modem and leaving out the router (again, the laptop does a little better than the desktop). i can get what i need but its annoying and i feel like im either being stupid or being messed with by the cyber gods. the only common item seems to be the modem. any suggestions would be appreciated.
the modem and your isp as the source of the problem, you are left with the router, cables, nic's and software issues as the possible culprits. i would first upgrade to the latest router firmware. if that proves futile, you may wish to engage the help of a friend's broadband and try out the router there. what's left are software disruptions caused by the various malware residing on the pc's.
i have tried different components for everything except the dsl modem and since it is the the only common component in my internet connection, i suspect it the most. i like your suggestion about trying parts elsewhere. it seems that there are a lot of people that have signals drop out, routers/nics/modems fail, & isps with shaky service. i think that this time we live in with computers is similar to the 1920s for automobiles. they worked but needed attention too frequently to keep them going. thanks!
make sure you take michael's advice and call your isp. usually shaky internet service is a problem on the isp end (a bad server/blade/bank). on more than one occasion over the years, the isp has replaced my modem because its firmware just can't get the job done. dhcp: make sure you have only one dhcp server enabled. if your modem is a combo device (modem-router), try keeping its dhcp server enabled, but disable the dhcp server on the other router. if using wireless, try changing the router/access point to a different channel to avoid interference. (try channels 1, 6, or 11 in the usa and canada). spyware scans with at least 2 programs on each computer may reveal a culprit.
you just about get the hang of the http and java stuff and now you've got to learn about w.t.f 128bit encription and have to spend hours pressing the reset button on your router for 5 seconds to reset it cos uve buggered up the port forwarding and your virtual server behind your nat firewall is getting all menstrual and is using the wrong port so your torrents wont download.... yeah i recon its nothing to do with your internet connection its all about configuring your wireless bits. i eventually sorted mine out by assigning my own ip's gateways etc and then it would still connect and disconnect every 5 mins until in my local area connection properties under authenticaton uncheck the enable ieee 802blablabla box. now (touch wood) it seems to be working perfectly. best of luck though buddy.
