hi guys, my pc has 2 wd wide scsi hard drives, each 9.1 gb. i want to replace them with 2 bigger eide hard drives of 40gb each. my motherboard supports both scsi and eide interfaces, and also there is a raid slot( not in use). my question is if it is possible to do and how do i go about doing it? i would greatly appreciate your support on this one guys. thanks temu
you write:&quot;my pc has 2 wd wide scsi hard drives, each 9.1 gb. i want to replace them with 2 bigger eide hard drives of 40gb each. my motherboard supports both scsi and eide interfaces, and also there is a raid slot( not in use). my question is if it is possible to do and how do i go about doing it? i would greatly appreciate your support on this one guys. thanks&quot; temu, you didn't state if date needed to be moved so this will be easy. just use a nice 80 conductor ide cable, set both drives to cable select and plug the drive pair into a primary ide channel. you may need to set the bios to autodetect the drives and a bios update might be required if the drives are beyond the supported size. install your os, pull your files from backup and store the scsi stuff for a rainy day if you want to recover some forgotten file. bob
.
&quot;just use a nice 80 conductor ide cable, set both drives to cable select and plug the drive pair into a primary ide channel.&quot; does this &quot;generally&quot; work? or does it depend on the mobo? i have an intel d845bg mobo, and hdd is set as master. if i were to add another hdd, could i set them up either way, master/slave, or cable select? and is there any advantage of one setup over the other. thanks.
the 80 conductor cable does the select and using the higher quality, higher speed cable sidesteps a few issues i've seen over hair loss trying to install the os. the rules are simple in ide land. just try it. bob
has master, and slave printed on it, which is what concerned me. now i'm guessing that it means master and slave for cable select, or for normal settings. jumpered in a hdd from an &quot;antique&quot; compaq about a month ago, to copy some files, and set it to slave. all worked fine, so guess the main hdd is set as master. i'll try it as cable select, when i get the new drive, but may have to get a new power supply first. have a 300 watt supply now, supposedly certified for p4, and athlon, but don't want to push it. appreciate the reply.
