i upgraded my computer about an hour ago, by installing a zotac gtx 650 ti (drivers were installed correctly) and a a rosewill rd600 stallion series psu. computer worked as it is supposed to for a good 30 minutes. however, when i entered a second game to test settings, my computer completely crashed. no bluescreen or anything, it just instantly shut off. now when i simply turn the psu on my system makes the first sound it normally does when it boots, but then the cpu fan turns on to full blast. no follow-on beeps, just the cpu fan running full speed. i have never heard it this loud before. i do not get any video output to my monitor, and the led on the power button of my case doesn't even light up, as if the computer isn't even turned on. i upgraded this factory model from gateway dx4840-03e the specs for this system are -1 tb hdd -intel i3 540 cpu running at ~3.1 ghz -8 gb ram thanks in advance for the help.
when this happens i unplug the new video card, psu and go back. that way i can see if the original gear is still ok. also, you can get out your volt meter and check the cmos battery. you want to read 3 or a little more volts. bob
ok, when i go back, what can i do if it doesn't run well. is there any way to salvage it from there?
go back to the old power supply and video card.. if that works, replace the p/s first and i suspect it won't work. the fan on the cpu comes on fast at first but should be reduced quickly when the bios loads, otherwise it will run at full speed. this tells me the 5 volts has failed but the 12 volts is okay.
but i hope you won't be upset as it's the same as fixing any pc. find or guess the failed part, replace that. which is it? if you knew each time, you've make a small fortune. bob
the problem was the power supply as mjd420nova suggested. i'm not sure why. i did find this  psu that is meant specifically for my model computer. would you recommend buying this? the only reason i'm asking is because i'm skeptical about any other psu working with my mobo. was the one i just bought an isolated case?
it didn't look like a bad choice with it being single rail to avoid you learning about all that. next time, add 100 more watts. more power, arr arr arr! bob
that was right. so was that an isolated incident with only that psu or will my computer reject every new one i try to install, for instance this
sorry, but can you explain to me what single rail means?
a single +12v rail means you don't need to check into if one or more rails could be overtaxed by your gpu or other choices. you also don't have to take care for run the one rail to your gpu then the others to drives and such. that's called balancing the rails, well discussed and most folk burst into flames when they find out about this. bob
how can you tell if a psu is single or multi rail? unless it says it somewhere in the product description and i missed it.
look at the output ratings and if it's a single +12v rail you see one ampere rating for the lone +12v. if more you see them tell you the rating for each rail. bob
