hi a friend of mine just ordered a pc from computer world.au . he doesn't have alot of room so he went with a cworld micro atx silver case. inside: no os/software ordered amd xp3000+ cpu radeon 8600xt 256mb 512mb 3200 geil ram 80gm matrox ata-133 hd 7200rpm a7n8x-vm or a7n8x-x m-board nforce2 - the smaller one so i switch the ******* on, boot from xp cd. load winxp setup. chose the partition and just as i start a full ntfs format the process freezes at 3%. so i am thinking 'it could be running hot, but its too early to effect anything, must be a defective hardisk' i think it was. ok, i restart. start setup again. but this time i just do a quick ntfs format. it works. i install windows, m-board driver and some monitoring utilities. the case is bloody hot, the cpu is running at 74 degrees. the threshold is 79 thought. i start installing drivers, problems with agp adapter straight away. won't install the drivers for it, as if the cd don't want to read. i am thinking must be a conflict with the built in nforce 2 agp, so i disable it and try again. no go, same thing. also errors with everything i try to install, the computer gives me constant errors during installation. i tried installing xp autopatcher and it gave me install errors every minute. i am thinking the hardisk must be f**ked up or the heat is killing things. what do you guys thing about the tempereture ? i am obviously going to call the cworld ppl tommorow and tell them what did they think when the told me cramming an xp3000 inside a micro atx would work ok and ofcourse wtf? is with the hardisk, dead on arrival thats what. your thoughts please ? and what would you try with this system ?
you may be on the right track, but let me add a few thoughts. 1. a new machine would have a warranty. use it. make it their problem. 2. a new motherboard doesn't always have the latest bios and such will create much grief for the owner. hint... 3. remove the case cover. if its heat, then the issues will subside. 4. xp glides onto good hardware. but you have an amd system so you as the os installer get to find and install all the lovely drivers for motherboard, video, audio, usb and more since microsoft doesn't do that. if not, i'd expect the machine to be very unpredictable. bob
thanks for the advice.. 1. i will make it their problem 2. how exactly can the bios be the culprit here ? perhaps you mean to say it may cause problems with the first stages of the windows setup process or the agp conflict ? it was an ata hd not a sata, so i didn't need any additional drivers. 3. i'll try it without the cover tommorow, thought i think the hardisk failed already as the system now doesn't even detect it. prompting me with a hardisk error. 4. every cd was reading ok, besides the ati agp driver cd, gives me some sort of x006e etc. layer/kernel problem or something. the whole system feels horrible.
the bios issue is so pervasive that the first thing i do with a new motherboard is to update the bios. let me excuse myself from telling all the reasons and the problems that ensue from this outdated item. some shops will not update the bios since they just push product. as to the hard disk. if it's dead, its dead. just be sure the bios is current since some will call an over 127gb drive non-existant and some will not try cable select on the drive on the 80 conductor cable. looks like a rushed out the door system. bob
last question, what is the best way of avoiding the conflict between the two vga adapters ? ofocurse i want to use my agp not the nf2 inbuilt one. i have my monitor plugged into my radeon 9600xt vga, thought now that i can't install the drivers for it, both vga&quot;s are with question marks next to them without any actual info on which one's which. so i am not sure which one to disable.
i've never experienced such a conflict. but i know to have the latest bios, then install the os, the motherboard drivers and finally the video drivers. you will see conflicts during the install, so that's normal. all the ones i see vanish when the os install is finalized. bob
bob proffitt wrote: &quot;4. xp glides onto good hardware. but you have an amd system so you as the os installer get to find and install all the lovely drivers for motherboard, video, audio, usb and more since microsoft doesn't do that. if not, i'd expect the machine to be very unpredictable.&quot; you're not saying amd is &quot;bad&quot; hardware are you :-)? i only have amd, and have seldom had any problems! but then, i also automatically install the drivers for the hardware because i know (or figure) i have to. maybe it is a good thing i haven't been spoiled by mico$oft, if they are automatically loading drivers for intel based devices. if i know i have to install all the drivers for all my devices, then i won't forget, or have to figure out, which one i need to install. larry
no i didn't write that. what i am writing is that many expected microsoft to install latest drivers. nothing is farther from the truth. and microsoft shows its intel connections in that some motherboards don't need a driver package. i will not debate ford or chevy. bob
good grief bob ! it was only a joke!!! for all i know, ms operating system might install drivers for intel devices (i've never had intel). i think they have had aliances before. i was just kidding with you bob. that was the reason for the smilely. what you said just sounded kind of funny to me, that you were slighting amd (and i don't really care if you were). everyone has their preference. i don't fault those who perfer intel. i just happen to like amd due to equivalent performance at a lower price. hope you can see a joke when it is intended. i'm sorry if you can't. we're only here to try to give help to others. but who says we can't have a little fun too?
el bastardo follow bob's suggestions, just some thoughts...... amd chips are known to run hot. the newest intel cpu are even hotter. to place your components in a micro tower... bad, very bad advice from the seller. on the bios, from mnf to whrse to retail in this time bug fixes, upgrades for memory/cpu, compatabily to hwd can change. this is why checking if bios upgrade is necessary. on video, i run 3 monitors 1/agp, 2/pci no compatabilty problems other than windows becoming confused once in a while. bill... .
i usually install the os and with start-settings-control panel-add/remove hardware, let the own os to select the best sofware. i never double click directly in the set-up within the cd. in the event of high temperatures, revise the fan locations within the case. i usually place a 120mm fan for 1fresh air input and left the other for extraction. maybe you should evaluate a volcano of a water based cooling system. the high speed cost an lot of $$$ pal!
