hello, i have been having some trouble with my laptop. i have a hp pavillion dv8000 with windows xp. none of my usb ports seem to work, when i plug something in the error message titled &quot;usb device not recognized&quot; pops up and the device does not operate. i have researched this as much as possible for about 2 hours now and i have tried these methods. - unpluging power cord and battery - deleting the items for usb under device manager - checking for updates in windows update - scanning for hardware changes in device manager i would really appreciate some help. i have service pack 3.
if it ever worked since the os was installed. the most common failure here is the bum install of the os. this dv8000 has an onerous install procedure too similar to this -&gt;  this is why i use the restore media as folk rarely will pay for the 2 to 5 days to install xp. bob
do you get any error mark in device driver section of usb in device manager? best bet is to update or reinstall the drivers and also check with another usb device on all the ports. also use the inbuilt hw diagnostic for any information in regards to this.
try this. unplug a usb device, wait 10 seconds. then hold down the shift key on the keyboard while plugging the usb device back in.
sounds like your laptop is missing the required drivers for the motherboard, not windows drivers! check your system, using the control panel, device manager and look for the usb tab. if it has a question mark of 'x' beside it, you need to install the machines drivers, so that the computer itself can recognize the ports. download the required driver from the manufacturers website and install them, or (after downloading), update the drivers from the control panel, using the download. should work perfectly after that markinto
the mac (os x) and the pc (ntfs) use different operating systems and devices formatted specifically for one will not function in the other. fat 32 is a universal standard which allows external devices like hd's, thumb drives, and memory cards to be used interchangeably to transport data back and forth etc. so perhaps you have some devices specifically formatted for the mac, or perhaps some other system. so you might check your formatting.
