i'm considering purchasing a new desktop pc to replace my 7 year old pc. i spoke to a sales rep with one of the major pc manufacturers last night and the question came to security software; antivirus software and etc. i told him i definitely planned to have installed something like norton's anti-virus software. i also told him i'd be switching from a basic dial-up internet connection to a high speed internet connection such as dsl or cable modem. besides making sure that i have an anti-virus software program installed on my new pc before connecting it to the internet for the first time what other types of software for computer security should i also have installed on my new desktop pc before i connect it to the internet for the very first time? i intend to use my new desktop computer for basic home office use; email; web surfing; personal finance; and word processing. i'm in the 50+ year old category; i don't play games nor do i make videos on a pc. based upon my use of a home desktop pc; should i have installed any other security software on my new pc before i connect it to the internet for the very first time? comments from anyone in this forum who happen to know would certainly be appreciated. big steve end of message 02/03/05
you definetly need protection when using any &quot;always on&quot; isp service. no matter how you look at it, you simply can't go forth until protected. you need the av pgm. such as norton's, plus any firewall pgm. norton's has it own firewall, but another maker zonealarm is very popular, black ice and sysgate's are also. the other part is having a good spyware scanner too, two are free and darn good, they are spybot v.1.3 and ad-aware se. webroot's spyware scanner is popalur too but is a commerical one. your new isp cable or dsl may provide some of the protection pgms. for you to use, so ask or read the fine print. you *may* also get such s/w with your new system either as demoware or trialware to see it work, in either case, you just got to have it installed. once, you install the s/w(any brand), make sure to &quot;update it&quot; immediately to have full 100% protection from the git. enjoy -----willy
yes all of the above. you could also get dsl/cable router to hook between your dsl/cable modem and you pc. this add an extra layer of protection and will let you hook up more pcs to the broadband connection. they cost $40~70 john
willy: thanks for those comments. big steve end of reply 02/03/05
john: this cable/dsl router that you're talking about; where would you purchase one? at an office depot; office max? where? also; thank you for your comments. big steve end of reply 02/03/05
