hi, i have a custom built computer with an intel pentium d processor, ati radeon x800 video card, a 250 gig hdd, and an intel mobo. my computer worked for 3 months until one day, upon turning it on, both my mobo and my power supply fried. i replaced both, and it started working again. however, 6 hours after it started working, it just turned off. it had no response to anything. i replaced the power supply with a more powerful one from a amore reliable company, and now, wheenever i turn on the power supply the computer's case fans and the video card's fan will click on for a second. at the same time, there is a strange clicking noise that the computer makes. what could be the problem? is it a grounding issue? or is it something else i haven't thought of?
too bad, you're learning the hard way that power issues effect the whole system. 3mo. isn't long for a decent system to feel the effects of a poor psu. you did the right thing in covering the repair, replacing both psu and mtrbd. but it &quot;seems&quot; you settled on a lesser wattage unit(same value?) and not a higher wattage one in the replacement process and in all probably used the same cpu, etc. componets to rebuild the system. a secnondary problem was lying in wait of one of the other componets. you should remove all hds, cds, and even the fd drive and make it as simple as possible system. try then to reboot, if it fails quickly, shutdown. now, teardown the whole system and rebuild it with care to mounting posts, cabling etc. back to a simple system to rerty again. it need not be in the system case, on cardboard or *non-conductive&quot; surface to make the system to see what the results are. if it still fails, then again the mtrbd. or psu was made kaput. if not and it boots-up, then add &quot;one&quot; componet at a time until it fails or seems to be stable. allow it work for awhile, just leave it alone for hrs. and see if it still works. return to system case if it does and proceed there one step at a time. verify all your work, etc., no guessing or taking anything for granted, if any thoughts, replace or test elsewhere. tada -----willy
last fall i built two pcs similar to yours... intel 945 mobos, antec cases/power supplies, dual sata drives, p4d 3.0ghz in one, p4 3.4ghz in the other. the first build went smooth as butter and booted up the first try. the second one took me another 4 days because it wouldn't boot. the lan leds would come on, the cpu fan would spin for a sec, then nothing. i tore down the functioning pc and started swapping parts and still no luck. my problem was the extra 2x2 pin mobo power connector (12v processor core voltage)... i forgot to plug it in. hope your problem is as simple.
i already made sure that was plugged in. my case fans start up and the led lights do turn on, as well as the cpu's water cooling starting up for about a split second... then they all turn off. the light on the mobo is on. and it is a 600 watt power supply, should be almost excessive. i did take it to best buy once when i got this problem... they got it to boot but i have no idea how.
you should check out this page which helps you understand how your computer starts up, then troubleshoot from there.
