i have a 2gb flash drive, vendor unknown, (bought from ebay), 4 computers all running under win xp home, with two desktops and two laptops. the problem: i put two folders, each containing several mp3 files on the flash drive called &quot;medialink&quot; and &quot;mrkeen&quot;. the drive is written using my ibm desktop. after writing the files, i read them to see that they are ok. then i eject the flash drive using the ejection software in the system tray, then replug the drive and look again at the two folders. now one of them is empty! where did the files go? how do i retain them? it didn't used to work this way. how do i determine the cause? thanks for any help.
simplest is to reboot your pc and replug in the drive. when you eject the media, versus just pulling it out which should be ok for flash unless you changed the drive config, the pc disconnects the drive. when you replug in, pc takes a while to detect it and the media. you may have checked for folder before the autoconfig finished.
faulty even. did you do a chkdsk on the drive already? kees
i did a check of the flash drive by starting my computer &gt; select drive &gt; properties &gt; tools &gt; error checking. it said the drive was ok. but, i'm not sure it is ok, because i can do the same things with another flash drive, and there are much more predictable results. does anyone have suggestions about how to thoroughly check a flash drive to verify its condition? are there certain software utilities which can be employed, available somewhere on the internet?
by the way, i did reboot the computer and replug the flash drive. the missing files are still missing.
i found a utility (flash check v1.08, freebie) on the internet. i ran tests on all my flash drives, and all had zero errors except the noname 2gb drive which was giving me trouble. this drive gave me about 260 errors! this flash check utility seems to be a very handy item. if anyone knows of a better checker, please let me know. i also observed that the board and usb connector on this troublesome drive is somewhat loose in its case. i suspect the following: i have a clock radio next to my bed which permits playing mp3 files stored on a usb flash drive. i had used this drive the night before. it is quite possible that sometime during the night i hit this drive while it was still plugged into the radio and did it some damage. it sticks out like a &quot;sore thumb&quot; and could easily be harmed. the lesson learned: don't leave the flash drive in the machine over night if it is within reach.
your flash drive seems to be logically wounded. it is probably due to fatal virus attacks, file corruption or operating system failure. i suggest you to consult data recovery experts  who can not only fix your problem but can retrieve your data in minimum cost. consulting doesnt cost!
just wanted to add that i am suffering a similar problem (based on two xp pro systems). i thought that it would be a good idea to use a usb flash drive as a backup for my digital camera. thought it would be more useful for file sharing. i have tried two different drives (16gb and a 32gb) and the same thing happens. i have always taken them out correctly, used all the scan disks and recovery utilites, and still no luck. folders randomly empty themselves, or leave corrupt files. any suggestions on what is going wrong would be really helpful. thanks
maybe i think you should scan your disk firstly by recovery software. if it could find the data and preview, i think it will recover it. i have the similar experience as you. i download a demo version of easeus data recovery wizard and try to scan. it is fair to know if i should buy their software. i think this is a good way to try if you can get the data back.
