here is the link  i really am leaning towards the recertified:hp pavilion a6347c(ke620aar) athlon 64 x2 5600+ 4gb ddr2 640gb nvidia geforce 6150 se windows vista home premium it has the most memory and i am going to need it. i am a little wary about buying a refurbished and i've never used newegg. does anybody know about this product or if any of the other three would be better. i want the most bang for my bucks.
refurbished/recertified products still come with a warranty, so it's a good deal.
first off, i'll say i'm not a fan of buying computers remotely. i've done it a lot before (because of where i worked) and had doa computers from a couple different manufacturers. if what you get doesn't work, what are you gonna do? mess with it yourself to try to fix it? or give up the time & expense for a return or shipping for repair. a refurbished one has already been used and returned once. secondly, the poster's handle is softcoregamer. is a machine without a dedicated graphics card going to suit your needs? lastly, what's the motivation for 4 gb ram?
cost? new egg is fine to deal with, use them a lot. the puter sounds pretty fair, depending upon price. it is set up for 64 bit software, that is why it is running 4gb of ram. the amd processor lends itself pretty well to gaming, wider fsb etc.
the computer itself is not for me. i'm buying it for a relative. their new job requires that they have enough memory to download all of the their company software, customer files etc. i have a refursbished hp computer myself. about 8 months strong now. i'm just a little wary of getting them one because this is for a job and not just regular activity. p.s. my handle was made years ago when i didn't know better.
this includes the one i would most likely get.
here's a new a6432f that's comparable to a6357c.  i'm sure that if wait a week or two, you'll be able to find one from a retailer like bb/cc/od that's the same price as newegg and probably has a monitor or printer thrown in.
i agree, you could probably get a similar system from a retailer for a few more bucks and some have bundle deals that include a monitor which might be a better way to go unless you already have a good monitor.
