i have run out of room on my laptop internal hd and am looking to get an external hd for myself. i was told that i should probably get a 250 gb one since those are more reliable than the larger drives at this point. i don't however know much about the differences in seek times, read times etc...nor do i know which brand to go with. i would like to get one that is simple to set up and use, and that also comes with some kind of reliable backup program so that i can set up a backup task to run and then forget about it. also, can you tell me about things like reliability between brands and storage sizes? any and all information is welcome and thank you!
if you use your laptop mostly on the road, then you should probably get a portable external drive. it doesn't need to be any larger than your laptop drive if it's for backup. lacie drives come with excellent backup software, including drive cloning software. you could choose to carry a portable drive with your laptop that contains a clone of your laptop's internal drive. i have two external hard drives connected to my desktop. one uses a firewire connection to my desktop computer and lacie's silverkeeper software &quot;clones&quot; my desktop drive to that one. being firewire, it means that i could boot from it if necessary. i also have a usb hard drive for storage of archived data, backing up my home folder (i'm paranoid about backups!) and i will start keeping movies, music and pictures on it eventually. both drives are idiot-proof in that you just have to plug them into the wall, connect to the computer and turn them on and they're recognized by your computer. you can then decide whether you want to reformat them for some reason. having only used lacie drives, i do know that they come with pretty simple instructions if you want to do that.
can you backup your data to dvds ? what's the basis for '250gb drives are more reliable than the bigger ones' ? best of my knowledge the 250gb 2.5&quot; laptop drive are brand new and have no real life reliability to report. best bang for the buck (gb) are the 3.5&quot; 7,200rpm hdds with 3 or 5 year warranties. you pick the enclosure of choice and install the drive. most of the prebuilt externals have only one year warranty. you can get a 500gb for about $110. before you buy and put all your data on an external ...read the posts in storage forum. lots of hiccups with external hdds. vapcmd
i have a number of 2&quot; external hard drives ranging from 20 to 120 gb and from a variety of manufacturers including samsung, fujitsu, seagate and toshiba. all have been wholly reliable and each has been cobbled together by buying a hard disk and enclosure separately. to help you make a choice i would recommend you take a look at tomshardware.com which regularly reviews and compares all manner of computing hadrware. in terms of back up software i have a dos recovery cd that can access firewire and usb storage and have powerquest drive image 2002 (now taken over by symantec and marketed as norton ghost). i have a stable system configuration image with all my applications and then simply copy my personal files across at regular intervals. if you have a technically minded friend or colleague they may be able to help compile a comparable dos boot cd or a bart pe boot disk.
thank you all for your assistance. i ended up having to go ahead and buy a new hard drive already as i had to get something for my data. i ended up getting 2 250 gb western digital my book premium drives. i have under 250 gb's and so, i am going to use one full time for my data and then, every month, update the second one with an exact copy of what is on the first drive. if something fails in the drive that i am using, i will have a whole new hd waiting for me. it cost a bit more, but that option was better than having one hd fail on me and then having to pay 1000 for hd recovery! can you all tell me more about norton ghost and how it works?
nice choice of drives. you must have some seriously heavy duty storage or i am still madly frugal with my space. to the best of my knowledge both ghost and drive image work in a windows and dos environments via guis (graphic user interfaces). they create a series of image files no larger than 1 gb in size (dos file size limitation) and various levels of file compression can be applied. they both create and recover from these image files and can also be used for disk duplication (should you want to swap out a hard drive). to use either program under dos you will have to tweak the configuration files (config.sys & autoexec.bat) along with the addition of a few other files to get usb and firewire connectivity. there is other imaging software available such as acronis and if you look on the net there are even some freeware options available. given the value of data it is worth spending some money on something you feel will work. do a search on the web for ghost and you will most likely get a very detailed overview of how it works and how well it works. if you are keen on going the dos route send a reply and i will try and give you some help with the configuration files.
thank you for the tips! i will probably go with ghost since it seems like a reputable program and one that cannot be too difficult to use. hopefully i will have all my files backed up soon!
i could not restore my sony portable using ghost as the hard disk has a recovery partition and ghost could not cope with this. acronis true image was easier to use and coped with the recovery partition without problem. nev
nev, just wondering if you were using acronis true image in windows or dos? also, which version of true image do you use as it seems to have had quite a few upgrades in recent times. thanks!
hi, i wanted to know which is a good external hard disk for movies,,, which brand & cost would also b an extra info for me pls reply to me at jefferson2389@gmail.com
is one that fits on your computer. for windows a usb-interface is fine, for apple a firewire-interface. for a laptop, it's advisable it has it's own power supply (that's somewhat clumsy in use if you really want to use it at different places) or connect it via a powered usb-hub. even a 2&quot; disk inside could be too power-hungry for a laptop usb-slot (but, just as well, it might work flawlessly). you might consider to buy the enclosure and the disk separately and put it in yourself. or you could buy an already assembled set. for shops and prices: look around, either for a trusted local shop or a trusted internet shop. whatever you prefer. hope this helps. kees
have a dell latitude 80 gb hd laptop and a maxtor 250 gb external hard drive. using the symnatec ghost program which comes up in dos. the program does not recognize the external drive. what do i need to do?
i suggest acronis.
additional information - on the source inspiron laptop, which has windows/xp and has been around for awile, the external drive is recognized and the image was created. on the target laptop, which had to have windows/xp reinstalled, the external drive with the image is not recognized in dos using ghost when trying to restore the image. it appears that some configuration change that is in the source laptop is not in the target laptop. ideas or suggested changes.
what version of dos are you using with ghost (e.g. pc dos, ms dos 6.x, 7.x (win 98)? if you want a dos bootable image that recognises usb & firewire let me know your email address.
the level of windows is windows/xp version 5.1 with service pack 2. my email address is jesse.johnson@mountolivebc.net
