hey guys, i was wondering if i could prepare and know which graphics card i should upgrade to. i don't really mind which brand though i would think to stick with ati. also please find graphics cards that are under the range of about $350. thanks! specs graphics card (not really needed) : ati radeon hd 5700 series chip type : amd radeon graphics processor processor : intel core i7-2600 cpu 3.40ghz ram : 8.2gb
anyways, here is my computer with full specs.
after you pick the card, see if your case is normal sized and then check your power supply. bob
how would i find out if my case was normal sized and my power supply? would i need to open my computer for the power supply? also that link i gave with the full thing to my computer says &quot;chassis type : microtower&quot; so would that be considered normal size?
since i can't chance it, i always look. since we're inside the case every 6 months to keep it clean, it's just another thing to read while we're inside. as to the case size, it wasn't clear to me so you can take measurements to see if a full size card fits and if there is a heat issue you can always cut a big hole in the case or leave a cover off. bob
a few questions, would a brand new power supply be needed? and im guessing this card can fit into my case and work with my computer. i was thinking of getting this card
heres a working link from above ^^^^  geforce gtx 650 ti
here's how i figure that out. i get the watts off the old supply and if it's the usual under 500 we take that number then add double the watts the new card will draw. reviews seem to write about 112 watts so we double that and add that to your current psu. now find a psu with a single 12v rail unless you are adept at figuring out amperes. bob
i'm not great with computers and don't really understand what your saying. but maybe i could give you some of the info you need and you can help me?
i asked on another forum about a power supply and someone linked me this
+12v1@25a, +12v2@25a however shows it's a dual rail supply. you've told me enough that you want a single rail to avoid all those other questions. bob
i found some more info about my graphics card it is the hd 5770 and requires 450 watts to run, i have 460 watts in my computer and the gtx 660 (the one i want) takes the same amount as hd 5770.
you're also falling into the trap of the just big enough psu. so we have a few issues to cover. are you going to exceed any psu rail? (that's in amperes, not watts most of the time) how old is the psu. i ding the spec by 25% per year of age for the first 2 years. bob
