just got a my book essential 1.5 tb hd a few things i want to ask: - how exactly do i add files / folders *manually*? - i read online that seemed to strongly advise you do not add or use the wd smartware. ok. already installed & used it. what have i done or what's in store for me now? what to do from here? - how exactly do i double check that what *appears* to be backed up in the hd is really there? thanks for any help.
let's be 100% clear here, *any* ext. hd storage is not permanent, so take heed and save critical data to discs. if super critical, then make multiple copies. next, treat your ext. hd like eggs just to cover it should be treated well. no matter how they advertise it, hds still have moving parts,etc. and damage can be done one way or another. mount and dismount using the proper procedure, don't just disconnect, even though you may have done this many times before, it can bite you. oh yeah, power issues, be sure to take care of that, remember, most ext. hd need low voltage to run, so spikes aren't good. last, treat the ext. media like any other media storage. that's all it is another area to store media. while you want this as back-up or similar, use what came with it, it works. however, if manual, then again the user need only make a folder or directory or even partition it and use that storage. do this as if it were like an int. hd, same-o same-o, like you've done before, that ext. hd, is drive ???. you can check shareware s/w or freebies, check out goodsync as an example. the  here is a good source among others. tada ------willy
i'm definitely very careful about handling these things. this is my 2nd ext. hd. from what i was able to see/try on this new one, i can't see where in the wd screen that i can do any folder creation or dragging. i'll have another look. you familiar with these particular models? ('cause the official wd forum is slow as molasses)
the real quick and dirty way is to have the source and destination both displayed. you create the folder or directory you want on the new drive. you click on it and menu pops-up make &quot;new&quot; etc.. once done, you click on your source data and click and drag to new location you just made -or- drag to open area of desktop then drag from there to new final location.  (without-photos) the above link seems to cover much of any pc would need to do. it offers to use &quot;sync s/w&quot; as well. this maybe all trial and error, so you may want to play with this using less important files/folders, etc., before you do the big move. i suggest some dummy .doc file or less important one. tada -----willy
what i ended up doing (& i should've thought of it way earlier), was go to my computer, click & open the wd hd icon & simply dragged/dropped from there. i went back into wd & everything seemed to be in place where i put it. i definitely want to save my music in at least 3 separate places, on cd etc, but it's a real pain since i have a good 30+ gbs of music. even if i used dvds, it'd still take several disks to do that. =/
i know that it's a pita to do all this copying and several at that. but! if you check this forum all those users that ask for advise in helping recover data or steps to save from further damage, yada, yada, it's something you have to accept. it's the nature of beast, frequent back-up or syncs to store data in several places. good luck -----willy
i just gotta bite the bullet & do it. thanks a bunch for your time & advice. you were an enormous help.
