i have a really old pentium 233, 160 ram, pcchips motherboard self-built computer.during the last year the screen has a tendency to go black (blank) at any time for no reason at all. the only way to fix it is to restart the computer and even then it takes quite a while for the image to come back. it usually comes back during the scandisk that is done before windows starts when it's restarted abrupty. the system itself doesn't freeze, but of course i can't do anything without being able to see the screen. the screen is a techmedia 15''. the video card is a cirrus logic 5546. the components of the computer are all rather generic. here's where the question goes. i don't know what is causing this. tightening the cables hasn't worked. i don't know if the problem is due to the screen or the video card. this is what i would like to know. is it the screen or video card causing this problem? any possible solutions? i'd really appreciate if you all could help me with this because it's driving me and my family crazy.
do you have another monitor that you could try, to see if it is the monitor or in the computer. good luck. gordon
techmedia is on the lower end of the monitor scale. if you hear an audible click, then black, the monitor isn't cutting it. of course the best test is to swap card and/or monitor on another system. it maybe also just showing its age and finally on its last legs. i suggest you prepare to get another monitor when you can. if possible a decent used monitor could be had at local goodwill or sal. army, maybe also inform them of your need and willingness to pay when one comes in. -or- local computer shop as well. you can always buy new as cheap monitors around here are $80+ range. sorry... tada -----willy
while changing the monitor for another for a test is a great idea, an old server at the office with a cirrus logic pci card failed. the video card was the culprit. mind you i am strictly sharing this one occurance (out of hundreds) but you are reaching the end of life on the parts in said box and may have to search out replacements. -&gt; do try opening the box and dusting it out in case it's a heat induced issue. bob
first swap video cards. you didn't specify if it was a crt or not and i'm not familiar with techmedia. if it is a crt unplug the power cord and take the back off. on the neck of the crt itself is a small pcb (circuit board)carefully unplug the pcb from the neck of the crt. you will see a partial to full circle of solder joints. these are the filaments to the crt. after a period of time these solder joints can become poor. as the display heats up, it causes a fracture of the joint (thermal fracture) resolder and give it a whirl. you can also check them before you do anything by taking the back off and power up your system. turn all lights off and you should see a &quot;glow&quot; in the neck of the crt. if the &quot;glow&quot; is there, then it is not the filaments.
as long as the unit is unplugged you don't have to worry about getting a shock as long as you stay away from the anode lead going to the head of the crt. it is usually a big red wire with a suction cup on the crt. just don't poke anything under that (that is where the stored charge is) usually 20kv - 25kv range.
