i took my netgear wgr614v10 back to walmart and exchanged it for a wnr2000v2. i find out after i got home that not only is it not windows 7 certified but its not certified for xbox either. it seems to be working better than the old router on the laptop but when i test my 360 connection i get a moderate nat warning. i have followed all the steps listed on the xbox support. i have forwarded port, set xbox as the dmz. i don't know what else to do. the connection seems to be some better but i can't get the nat changed to open. any suggestions on what to do or should i just give it up and order a wireless modem from my isp and pay $4.00 every month? thanks
we have that router. but. (what?) ours is setup like this forum suggests as to latest firmware and the rest of the suggested settings. i didn't have to open ports, forward, touch anything nat. it just works. bob
if i plug the 360 straight into the modem it reads an open nat; but that's from where i had to reconfigure it before with the old router. i plugged the new router in and that's when it read a moderate nat.
here i did nothing. or very little. i did exactly what this forum asked. lastest firmware, router defaults, and wpa-psk for wifi security and a simple broadcasting ssid. your post sounds like you are trying many interesting things. i'm glad my 2000 just works with the 360 without touching any setting. bob
i reset the modem to factory defaults and tried it again and got the same results. still a moderate nat. i thought maybe the issue was the fact the router isn't certified for the xbox but if you have no issues then that's probably not it. i tried to upgrade to the latest firmware and it said none was available.
i went to the router maker's web site since those router web interfaces are not reliable. ok, maybe i'm missing something. both our 360s work with live fine. but you keep writing moderate nat. is there more to this story? that is, are you attempting something other than live? it will be a few weeks until i get back to home (on travel today) to see what firmware i have in our 2000 router but here, the stock settings and the forum advice works. parting idea. see if you can put the xbox 360 into the dmz. bob
i just purchased this router and was having a problem connecting xbox live via my laptop. try the following to resolve your problem. 1) go to the &quot;router login&quot; 2) click on &quot;wan setup&quot; 3) uncheck the box labeled as &quot;nat filtering&quot;
i meant uncheck the box &quot;disable sip alg&quot; then check the box &quot;open&quot;
yes you may set the nat filtering to &quot;open&quot;, disable the firewall and also you may lower the mtu size to 1400 and if non of these steps work advise to upgrade the firmware of the router.
i had three diff routers before this one. i did the dmz open prt forwarding all the things forums said, and nothing helped! the netgear wnr2000v2 has to the best router ever for mwcod,and black ops and any xbox 360 game! all i did was plug it up and it ran! open nat every time, no configuration, it even saw the gateway without cofiguration. it has a good range as well on the wireless. if your fighting the open nat like i was, you will love this router!
i have the same netgear wnr2000v2 router and ive tried everything and still get &quot;nat type moderate&quot; its really pissing me off think we should just throw the thing away and buy a belkin router i had one while i lived in england and ive never ever had any problems with it
potwillams try this as i have the same router. go to your router setup for net gear its 192.168.1.1 or routerlogin.net then go to wan setup and make sue that nat filtering is on open. secured will give you moderate or restricted.
