i have a sony computer(it is not the greatest computer). i want to install a second internal hard drive. the sony techs i contacted told me that it was dangerous to do so and sony does not recommend anyone doing it. i wanted to know if i should take their advice? i wanted to install an internal drive instead of an external drive because i heard that the external drives are slower. i am a novice at computers. i have never installed anything before. i don't want to try installing one if i could damage the computer. i don't have the money to replace it. any advice will be greatly appreciated.
other than that if you have the cable, it should be easily done.
hmmm. i don't know if you fully understood what i was asking. i don't want to damage my pc. i wanted to know if it is easy to install one and are there high risk of damaging my computer. i don't want to try and end up killing my computer or damage it where it will not work right anyone.
the only problem that could possibly come from is if the power supply unit the plugs your comp into the wall of your house may not be powerfull enough to run two hard drives at once. i think that's bull. here is an idea, grab a cd drive or hard drive from a friend's computer and see if your's still boots up with the extra load. if not then so be it. no harm will come from trying this. the second hard drive may cuase your system to not boot but that can be remidied by? removing it of course. the psu will automatically shut down if it detects there is too greta of a load. and if it does shut down then i would recommend getting a new psu anyway.
if you aren't planning on installing the operating system onto the new hard drive. if secondary, just as extra to supplement current one. just plug and play roger
i would just like to say that so long as your computer can support another drive there is no risk what so ever. 1. open your case 2. you will need to put in your harddrive in a 3.5&quot; slot, there should be 2-4 screaws that to through a mount and into holes in the drive. 3. you will need to connect power to the drive. you can use a 4 pin connecter on any harddrive, or if it is sata2 or 3gb/s then you can use a molex connecter. do not however use both at once. 4. connect the drive to your motherboard. you can do the harddrive as a slave (you will need to move a jumper) by connecting it on an ide cable with a master drive, or you can use a new cable and make it a master (default). when you boot windows it will assign it the next drive letter. walla, you cannot damage your computer unless you go hammering something, or just go plain out stupid. also ground yourself before starting (touch the metal) and pull the power cord out. even if you distarge a normaly distructive shock on a sensitve compounient the powersupply should ground it out and prevent any damage. btw you may get a slightly undsired results without tweeking in that your drive letter may be werid, such as my computer goes like the following: a/b-none c - main hdd d - main optical (dvd reader/burner) e - file/speed drive, allows games and files to run speratly from os (xp) so it runs faster, longer, cooler, more stable. f - currently removable drive, soon will be secton optial/3rd hd. btw good luck, the only issue with installing a drive is making sure you have the room for it. if you are not sure take it into any mom+pop tech store, they can open the case and tell you in 40 seconds at most.
installing a hard drive need not be difficult. it can be daunting to newbies, but i assure you that with proper practice and understanding, it is really easy. check out this article that shows you how to install a hard drive:
i am also considering an external hard drive.best buy put a new hard drive in my sister's computer and the computer never worked right again.i might decide to try the external hard drive just to be sure i don't do anything that will mess the computer up permanently. are external hard drives good to use? i don't want to waste my money. thank your for your advice.
which brand of hard drive is best to use? and circuit city has a sale on seagate for internal and simpletech for external(one is a network attached hard drive and one is not). any suggestions? while i am asking, what about memory? are there any brands of memory that are better than the others? circuit city has a sale on kingston. thank you.
if after reading the posts there you still want an external hdd ... then go for it. otherwise...you're far far better off with an internal drive for reliable disk space. externals are ok if what you really need is portability of data between pcs. otherwise they're more prone to failure and susceptible to damage or even loss. ps...all external hdds come with one year warranty...most internals hdds have 3 or 5 year warranty.
what you have told me has helped me greatly. i think i will go with an internal. thank you.
