i need to get a new psu my current psu is only 200 watts. i'am having a hard time figuring out what type od psu i need.i've been lokking for days trying to figure out what psu would work for my pc. i have a pavilion 750c and i need at least a 300watt psu. if anyone could help me because iam completely lost.
over at  you can find pdf documents with exact dimensions of what i will call &quot;standard size&quot; atx power supplies. while i've grown familiar with these to the point i can just look at the psu then check the connections a new technician will need such a document and learn what the atx, atx12v and other power connections are as well as determine if the replacement supply has enough of each connection. one owner spent a year seeking out a psu because they couldn't find &quot;the right one.&quot; they were looking for one with exactly the right number of power connections but imagine them passing up unit after unit because it has &quot;too many&quot; power connections. hopefully this won't stop you. tell me how it turns out. bob
because you have a hp pavilion system, you need a true fit or match. while you can find replacement psu of larger wattage, it will be expensive for the reason mentioned. hp does offer larger psus for sale if they still have them in stock. just be sure whatever replacement psu you do get is hp compatible and what the return policy is if a mistake is made. understand typical generic psu won't work in the hp system unless you're lucky due to tje physical size and shape of the psu in question. google hp replacement psus online. as for pcpowerandcooling, they're very expensive but darn best quality you can get. tada -----willy
so if i was to find a psu that was the right size would it work or would it have to say hp compatible?
i'm a little sad that it appears you didn't do the research. if you don't, it's best you take it to the service counter and have it done. bob
get the make/model of the machine. open the machine and see if there is a make/model/s# on the psu. now go here.  click on the &gt;contact. send them an e-mail. tell them what you want to do and include all the make/model/s# of what you have. see what they have to say.
