i'm not super computer savvy but i have a amd motherboard with a nforce 2 chipset, a xp 2200+ cpu, 768mb ram, and a geforce titanium 4200 (i think) video card. i need to upgrade my computer, it runs really slow and i play some up to date games, this isn't cutting it. first off, should i upgrade everything? i was thinking of going with a new motherboard with a nforce 4 chipset, 64 3000+ processor, adding a gig of ram and upgrading to a 6600 gt video card. this won't be cheap, but i was wondering, is there a way to maybe take the price down a notch without sacrificing too much performance? any suggestions? or if you know of a place where i can get these compontents cheap (i know about price watch) or something? any advice/help/suggestions is appreciated
check out newegg for prices tho and i would consider getting a athlon 64 3200+ instead of the 3000+. it is only alittle bit more and probly worth it. also make sure you get a skt.939 mobo and cpu. u also don't need the best mobo either. don't get an asus one just cause of the name. they are basically all the same. make sure it has an agp slot, atleast 4 pci slots and 4 dual channel dimm slots
what do you have running in the background? these can be resource hogs.
give a speed boost. but nothing will help the fastest computer when spyware has invaded.
i have antivirus and firewall, i also run ad-aware on occasion. i don't run much in the background really, just a couple messenger programs, my antivirus and that's it.
i'll bet you're infected. i've seen and fixed machines so hosed up they would take over five minutes to boot, then five minutes for explorer to load. forget about surfing. spyware can invade a system in fifteen seconds (a quote from pcworld). please visit this page at my site and do a little light reading, then download the programs listed. all free. use cwshredder first.  good luck, click here to see the cnet faces, learn a little about internet connections and data, and download free software. suppose you were an idiot. . . and suppose you were a member of congress. . . but i repeat myself. --mark twain
yes check for spyware!!!!!! if you want to build a new pc check out this link for tips. john
&quot;disadvantages: * youre currently not able to take full advantage of the technology because the software vendors havent made the switch from 32-bit to 64-bit processors.&quot; given i have such 64-bit machines running on xp's 32-bit system and i can use virtual dub and it kicks into a 64-bit mode plus xp's sp2 uses some 64-bit extenstions, that statement needs a rewrite. also, i have suse 9.3 in it's full 64-bit glory. again, i wonder what your definition of full advantage is. your passage is much like what was written when we were transitioning from the 80286 to the 386. in fact it is! bob
thanks for the info bob. i have an xp64 pro beta on 1 pc now ( waiting for my copy of rc1 from ms) regular xp sp2 on the other, got suse 9.3 but haven't had the time to insall it yet, glad to hear that it runs great. one of the reasons i have reg xp sp2 on one of the amd 64 is it gives me a way to compare same os on different processors, this will end as soon as i gat a chance to install the suse or the xprc1. john
