when system boots up, the wizard finds unknown hardware and searchs for driver, i cancel. then wizard searches for driver for pci multimedia audio device and i again cancel. in the device driver menu, there is nothing checked red or yellow. the only clues i have are: keyboard driver idvkd.sys driver not installed, and the cd-rom is set as secondary slave. there is no primary slave. there is no secondary master. hard driver is primary master.
instead of cancelling, i let windows search for the best driver. now i have 2 devices with a yellow ? beside them in the device manager.
those devices need attention. if those devices are unknown to you, don't worry, just hit the &quot;update&quot; button to find the best drivers when you click on that device. if none are found, then find them either on your system recovery/restore cds or mtrbd. cd and point to them as the new source to check. -or- load the required cd and match the device to driver and allow it to load. if all fails, thn simply remove or delete the device in question, upon next boot-up it should retry again to find proper drivers, then point to the known cds that have such drivers. you can provide the drivers from the vendors support website for that device and d/l them and then extract such drivers and then use that source to load them. did all this happen on thier own or did you installed &quot;new&quot; h/w, etc? you may want to try this forst before anything else. use the &quot;restore&quot; feature of winxp or winme to a date where problems weren't present. tada -----willy
don't have any recovery cd's for this system. i installed win98 from an older system. this computer was used at a technical college. there is no sound card in the computer at all so why does it keep finding a pci audio device?
ok, sorry for no restore points. anyways, besides an actual audio card, there are audio section build on mtrbds. i suggest you get the system checker:  find everest system checker pgm. and d/l it. it will check your system for all devices. yes, the audio portion will be seen as pci type. if present. a quick physical check of the audio ports found on the system case, look for 3-4 small rca plug-ins, maybe labeled as spkr, input, output and/or mic, etc. tada -----willy
you have a machine with on-board sound. i suspect you have a machine that requires mobo drivers, w98 won't do this for you. so...what you need to do is id the mobo and then visit the makers site and then look around for sound drivers. while at the makers site you might want to look around for other drivers that support your mobo.
i have been trying to find out exactly who is the manufacturer of the motherboard.
you could try toni h advise in xpforums. good luck. gmp
if you do what willy said with the everest thing you'll get so much info about your machine it will make you dizzy. somewhere in the mass of info it presents will be the make/model/serial# etc.etc. of the mobo.
is it still available as freeware?
''lavalys leaves freeware development efforts dedicating all resources to its everest commercial products line'' - december 5, 2005  you can still use &quot;belarc advisor&quot; or &quot;sandra lite.&quot; both may be found through download.com.
get everest at majorgeeks d/l website.  if it gets hosed, then search on majorgeeks website, enter: everest as keuword. you need the home version which is still there. tada -----willy
it was available at majorgeeks. i now know motherboard name (chaintec 60jv) (id=i815-47b27x-jv69rvcoac-00) i will try their support later and see if i can get this figured out. thanks again.
