ok first off my pc was running fine until i added new motherboard and 2 4gb after installation pc started just fine but when i go to install some updates they fail. also when get all types of error codes when installing disc based games and virtual iso games. on occasion i get a blue screen of death but havnt got that since i installed windows 8. i even checked each memory stick by manually removing 1 byb 1 and testing each. i have ran error fix programs driver programs and even ran programs to test my hardware everything checked out. so my only conclusion is its my old ass proccesor. if anyone could help it would be highly appreciated.
these are rarely legitimate and often carry trojans or more. i read your post twice and found so little about the desktop that i can't comment except that the virtual iso games are quite the tip off that something isn't quite legit. bob
but these are isos i made and they worked way before i changed to the asrock motherboard and added the memory thats when i got the issues. so it has to be a hardware problem with one of the 2 faulty motherboard im guessing cause i tried the mem sticks in another pc and they gave no issues
after installing the new motherboard, did you do a clean install of your os again? that's really recommended. kees
there are issues with windows if you transplant it. ever watch young frankenstein? bob
i have done clean swipe installation i have tested memory together and one by one. if it helps my main problems are installing games and windows update seams to fail everytime. my specs are asrock g41m-s3 motherboard, dual core intel pentium e5200 cpu,4gb x 2 ddr3 elite memory, zotac geforce gt440 graphics card. please any info or ideas will help.
before this started happening ? is this version of win 8 a legitimate copy or is this os an install from a torrent? what av are you running ?getting info here is like pulling teeth, the op doesn't wanna give any up .
yes the windows 8 is from a torrent share site but i had windows 7 legit and it was still giving problems before the installation of windows 8. windows 8 actually made it a little more stable. as in having windows 7 i was getting bsod.
i'd start with a clean install of your good old legitimate windows 7. install sp1, installl all updates, install antivirus and only install trusted applications. if you still get bsod's it's a hardware issue. if everything is fine and you install other software and troubles begin, you know where to search for the cause. and maybe even everything stays fine. kees
