i travel a lot for work and use ethernet connections to gain access to the internet. problem is the same networks iam using is provided by companies that i am auditing. simply put what can these companies see when i plug in? what would keep them from eavesdropping (software). what about installation of snooping software without my knowledge? i have to use ie 8, my audits are done on a live database and is not supported by other browsers. i use in private browsing, encrypt email.have an external hard drive, use truecrypt. i'm running w7 in virtual box, not sure if this helps. not sure about vpn, does this allow for open ports on home computer? i run windows firewall with no exceptions pc tools antivirus updated super anti spyware updated keep windows vista and the w7 updated i have goggled this without success. thanks for your assistance!
windows firewall is adequate, but for better protection i'd suggest zone alarm free. blocks incoming and outgoing (if you're compromised).
i can add that to my laptop no problem, that would keep from adding programs, thanks i imagine it goes something like this when i plug my laptop into their network: receive ip address or identifies computer by name traffic is routed through their server then to intended website traffic is routed back through their server from website to my box is my internet traffic visible? can my computer be network mapped without my knowledge? i know this is basic, but thanks for your comments
absolutely. for years we've logged all web addresses from our router. wouldn't any good company do that? bob
sounds like your a professional, if i understand you correctly, you can log any web address to your server. is there a way for someone to circumvent you recoding this to your server, say by a proxy server? i am only trying to keep my audits confidential. these audits can affect how my client(s) views this company for future business both positive and negative. as in the previous post audits are performed by an online database accessible only thru ie8.
we see you went to a proxy. since we know most proxy servers this can be set to send an alarm to the admin for them to go visit the machine. bob
if they could put a client application such as netop on your computer, they could see everything you see on your laptop including controlling anything they want. we do this kind of thing in the classroom to monitor student's work. but there are applications that will allow you to monitor without the client. since you are not using the company's computer, not likely that they could put a client app on your laptop. if you want a secure connection between two computers, you might check out hamachi. here's an article from lifehacker  .
that's what i was concerned with. the hamachi vpn sounds promising; this may be a path forward. the network admin with my company did not recommend anything of this nature. about 2-months ago i proposed securing our data, he has not offered any suggestions, other than using the supplied cellular air cards? however these cards do not work in all areas, thus this posting. will the connection to my home computer using the hamachi vpn be visible to the server? this would be disastrous. i am definitely in the right forum, i can tell the posters are experienced, very well.
read it for yourself. read up on the hamachi security at:  it encrypts all your messages. it would be hard for another system to intercept the messages and be able to decrypt them. logmein has many different products of which hamachi is just one of them. check them out. you can try out their products and see how they work. if you have two computers that has internet access, install hamachi on both, set the accounts and see what it can do for you. i'm here in the west, and i used the free hamachi to control my daughters computer who is in missouri.
it's best to understand your proxy info, and what actually gets displayed to others, when browsing behind a vendor or client's network, or when using a corporate mobile device. try running it through  or  when you're on the network.
