which routers currently have good content filtering? i am looking at possibly replacing my netgear 7230 since it seems to &quot;choke&quot; after too much use. i like the &quot;content filtering&quot; subscription the router allows since i can keep my family from stumbling on certain sites. i did purchase another router that claimed it supported content filtering, but that required entry of each site. i am definitely not doing that. do any other consumer-grade routers support this? i have used a sonicwall soho for a several years, but their annual fee for content filtering was much too high for my usage. brad
see if the wrt54g with the upgrade addresses this.  as to the 'choke', if i see a router do that i update the firmware and make sure it's not buried under a pile of trash (heat kills). if that doesn't do it, it goes back. bob
the cfs subscription is more expensive on a soho unit because the soho is postioned more as a business class appliance (businesses are more apt to spend higher dollars than consumers). consider purchasing a sonicwall tz150. you should be able to purchase the firewall and the cfs for about the same cost as the soho for the first year. the follow-on years should run you about $120 per year. let me know if you need additional details.
$120 per year is still 3x to 4x what i want to pay. i don't love my netgear, but it works for about $30 per year for cfs. does the tz150 limit the number of users? that was a real annoyance with my soho unit. brad
when i check for a firmware update i am told it is &quot;up to date&quot;. the unit is also outside the warranty period. i did purchase a netgear wpnt834 rangemax 4-port switch 240 mbps mimo 802.11g/b wireless router, since i found it for around $75 (which may have been an error). i will see if that works any better, though having a spare is not a bad idea either. brad
take a look at the zyxel zywall 2. i've had one for 2 years and have been very happy with it. the content filtering subscription can be purchased for about $ 65. per year.
