has anyone on the forum bought or used the toshiba thrive? i have been waiting for a tablet that has usb2, hdmi and a sd slot and it appears the thrive has them all plus a replaceable battery. before i retired i worked for a toshiba dealer, but that was key telephones and pbx systems and those systems were excellent... that is the reason my laptop is a toshiba, just because of the name. i plan on going to bestbuy tomorrow as they now have them in stock and i can get a hands on one, but would like to get some thoughts if anyone has used one. thanks wayne
while it's pretty neat i can't say i'd find much more use for this over other tablets. i'm guessing here you are trying to avoid a laptop. so far, that's a painful lesson. bob
that link told me a lot before i actually pick one up and play around with it. i am not trying to substitute a tablet for a laptop. i have a very nice laptop which i plan on keeping. my main reason for the tablet is because i will be doing a lot of traveling starting this summer and really don't want to haul my laptop around. it will give me something to do on those long flights other than reading all those magazines the airlines stuff in the seat in front of you. another reason for the toshiba is i still get a discount through my old company on toshiba products.
if i wanted such a tablet i might opt for the new dual boot windows and android thing instead to get more use from it. tipping my hand i am in a company porting apps to android and get to play with a few more units that some folk however this model is just out and doesn't stand out in any way for us to ask for one. some folk are returning pads as they discover what they are not or that it's video file compatibility isn't what folk expected. tip: i use handbrake and settings found on the net for the tablet in question. how to sum it up? android tablets seem needy when it comes to care and feeding. bob
i just recently got the thrive as a birthday gift. it was something i have been researching for a long time! i love it! the functionality is great, i dont have to haul my laptop around and i can use it for all of my school work... i can put my sd card from my camera in it to look at pictures and email them, the usb is a big plus in my opinion and i use it constantly and the battery lasts really well... the only issue i have had is finding the right silverlight download for it... kim
owned it for about a month now. absolutely delighted! primary uses are looking at email and the web while watching tv. battery lasts for 5 days with moderate usage. discovered several additional uses that i had never intended, such as using it as a gps navigator in the car! still experimenting with additional android tablet apps. much more useful than i had originally thought, and way cheaper than the ipad that i originally looked at. love the full-size ports and the ability to easily replace the battery myself if and when it becomes necessary.
