i use a hughesnet satellite with a d-link dir655 router. hughesnet limits me to 425m per day. once exceeded, i get knocked down to slow dialup for 24 hours. i need a router based bandwidth monitor for total traffic accumulating daily (but starting at 4am). i need to be able to see how much bandwidth i've accumulated at any time during the day. i have two wireless clients and four wired clients constantly connected. total bandwidth is all i absolutely need, but having the bandwidth separated out by clients would help a great deal to isolate usage problems when one of the clients runs away. i've perused the tomato and dd wrt firmware packages but haven't found enough detail to know if they will work. plus, my dir655 does not appear as supported. if i need to get a new router, i need one with wireless capabilities. i had a linksys wrt54g previously but it needed reboots off and on, plus the wireless connection was too slow (for skype - our only means of communication out in the remote oregon coast range where i live). the dir655 has never hung up and the speeds are good. so, has anyone ever addressed this issue? is there a router that allows real time and cumulative bandwidth monitoring? if there is not, and i need to use tomato or similar, what router might be equivalent to the dir655? if there is a router that offers this monitoring, does anyone have personal experience with it? thank you for your consideration. have a great day! bob f
this is now standard on most routers. even my wrn3200 does that.  notes two other very popular models which i bet do this as well. go get the manual from the maker and read it. &quot;but having the bandwidth separated out by clients would help a great deal to isolate usage problems when one of the clients runs away.&quot; mine doesn't report it by client. for that i suggest  bob
as noted above, i own a dir655 (one of the two routers noted on the link you gave). it does not do it. it does give total packets for wan, lan and wireless. i saw nothing in the stats for the other mentioned router either. i have been unable to download the manual from netgear. thanks anyway. bob f
look at  and other such discussions. thanks for sharing that the 655 doesn't have it. bob
i looked a second time and no router reports on a daily basis. looks like you are stuck with netlimiter.com bob
yes, the wndr3700 would have been exactly what i was looking for, if it had daily limits! sweet. there was the comment by jeff baumgartner last july (  ) that &quot;cisco systems inc. (nasdaq: csco) told ap that it's also looking at adding such a feature for its routers.&quot; may just have to suck it up and wait until this feature becomes more mainstream due to the increasing limits on total bandwidth. bob f
