hi im in need of help!!! i just bought a brand new hp pavillion dv6436nr notebook. i have everything set up all ready to got. the catch is that ihave a hp office jet 6110 all in one that i want to keep. i have that up stairs on my desktop and its connected to a gateway running xp. i have wireless networking for my entire house i just cant seem to get vista and xp to rcognise each other and or i dont know how to get the computers to interact. please help i need directions!!!
for my dell photo aio 964 printer. i then installed the printer drivers in the other laptops(hp and compaq) we can all print whenever we want and we don't have to have a host computer on. rick
what im trying to say i guess is i cant get my desktop on the routers network cuz i dont know how to. i have my laptop on there but i need to get my desktop on the netgear network.(my network name)
connected to the ethernet cable? do you have identical user accounts to make your network? did you use the network wizard?
yes its connected by ethernet through my netgear randemax router two different accounts one is adelphia and the other is netgear(my network names) i tried it but it did not work it said could not find network
sounds like you are using a shared printer (connected to a desktop). i haven't tired vista yet and will stay away from it until i replace my dell laptop later this year. so i cannot appreciate your difficulties having vista communicate with windows xp. however, tcp/ip networking should be the same in both windows, although the window navigation is probably different. it's been a while since i used shared printer, but i think you need to placed all your pcs in the same workgroup and select &quot;file and printer sharing for microsoft networks&quot; in your wireless network connection on win-xp. assuming you have been successfully sharing the printer with your older pcs in your house, the problem is with your vista networking setup. here is my real contribution. i recommend you buy yourself a print server for $60 (see this linksys wired printer server..  like most, this one has a usb port for your printer. in additional, it gives you a 4-port ethernet hub. when installed, you have a network printer that doesn't rely on your desktop being on or relatively free. i have used this for 5-6 years and maintenance time saved is well worth the cost. btw, the design is solid and linksys hasn't changed the model or issued new firmware or device driver releases for a while. currently, i have my b/w laser printer connected to it. btw, assuming your router isn't really old, it should have nat (network address translation) and you are theoretically free to use any network range you want, with this caveat: the subnet mask must match your subnet address. for the default address that most router setup wizard uses: 192.168.0.x, the subnet mask is 255.255.255.0. unless you are comfortable with subnet masks, use the default that the wizard assigns. you gain nothing by using something different.
