i have an emachines t3522. it's horrible, i know. so, why not upgrade? my essential question is: &quot;what is the best way to maximize performance (on high settings, preferably) in world of warcraft with this computer on a 22-inch monitor at full (1680x1050) resolution?&quot; i believe the computer has a power supply of only 300w. here are the rest of the specs: - 1gb ddr2 (?) ram - integrated graphics (woohoo!) - 3.33 ghz intel celeron cpu - 1 pci-e x1 slot - 1 pci-e x16 slot - windows xp i need to play at full resolution. i can't stand it otherwise. also, i'd like to bump up my settings. i'm currently on lowest, and the game looks much worse than if it were at higher settings. even at lowest, i'm &quot;cranking&quot; out no more than 20 fps (ever), mostly hovering around (and below) 10 fps. with a 300w power supply, how much can my computer take? i looked at the nvidia geforce 9400 gt, which is the most powerful card (to my knowledge) that my computer can support. all the other cards are above 300w. to be honest, i'm not exactly sure about this power issue. what else would i be able to throw into my computer before it is overloaded? i'm open to all suggestions. i have $150 to spend. go.
firstly the processor does not lend itself to being much for gaming. by the time you get done doing any upgrades to that system, you may as well have purchased (or built) another system with better capabilities. all i would do would be to pump up the memory and install a video card, of course if you could find a more substantial psu that would be a plus. but the celeron processors are noted for being wobbly when it comes to anything tricky. shop around, you may be able to do your component upgrades for close to your 150.00 budget. good luck!!
get a new power supply then come back to us
sorry, you need a new computer, unless you want to get rid of your processor, first post it right, that chip is garbage to be honest, and if you get a new chip, video card, and psu, then you may as well buy a whole new computer, if thats what you do, build your own. find a custom build shop in your area, and they will assemble and install o.s. for you if you don't know how.
