hello, i am interesed in attaching small containers/trays (about 2 - 4 inches in width) to my flat screen monitor. i was wondering if anyone has any suggestions on how to attach the tray to the monitor without it scratching my monitor. ideally, i would like the option for the container to be next to the side of the monitor or to be hidden behind the monitor. this would mean that whatever the container is attached to must be flexible enough so that i can slide the tray to the back of the monitor. any ideas? thanks!
first, you need to create the container. on one side of the object, have two loops extending from the top and bottom. take a small rod and place over it two rods- each with a swivel joint- at the top and bottom of this rod with rubber washers to stabilize the area and prevent unnecessary moving. connect the rod through the loops and cap off the top and bottom to prevent slipping. with each rod running perpendicular to your box, make another rod with an arm in the middle and attach the two connecting rods at the top and bottom. make a small plate with two loops close together and attach the other end of the rod to the plate. from the plate, create a set of legs that wrap around and attach small screws with soft feet at the bottom. you can use suction cups. use this makeshift vise to attach the plate to the monitor.
if i knew what it was for i might be able to help you
the container will be similar to a round ashtray. in the container, you can put either paperclips, ipod, phone or post-it notes. it would contain things you use or reach for everyday in an office setting. i would like to clip this to my flat screen monitor. the container will be at the side of the monitor but should be able to move to the back of the monitor if i want to hide it. what materials do i need to ask for when i go to a local hardware store?
thanks for the reply. it sounds like a good idea. the only problem is that my container will not have a top (open container). it will look similar to a round ashtray and might be angled a little bit so that the person sitting in the chair can see what's in the container and be able to reach for it. if i were to go to home depot, i would ask for 2 loops, 2 rods, 2 swivel joints, 2 rubber washers, and a small plate (what kind/brand)? sorry, i'm not familiar with all this new terminology. and in case you're wondering, it's for a class project. and yes, i am in way over my head.
noteholders on the sides of the monitor, plus an adhesive tray below. you can also pick up the tray featured in the above picture:
thanks for sharing the links. it's useful. but this is a class project and i have to make it.
compare the design given to a human arm. the box can be the hand itself. the rod which connects is the metacarpus. the two rods are the radius and ulna. the second bar- with three rods- can be considered the elbow. the last single rod is the humerus. you're being given a design that will work. if you make it, you can patent it, and never have to give credit. this will represent the side of the container.--&gt; | this will represent a loop on the side --&gt; (. (| &lt;-- that is the design. or like a letter d. |d now using symbols here, = for two rods, | for the connecting rod, - for the representation of the humerus. we have =|- as the basic design. i have to use more letter for a representation of the design d as one end, and p as the other. using this we create what the rod may look like. d----p. this being the two ends of the horizontal rod which will fit over the vertical one and allow motion based on a simple hinge design. like i said: put this together, take the credit, patent it, and you won't have to give anyone credit. it's also known as being lazy and not doing things for yourself.
in case you didn't notice, this is a forum where people share their knowledge and expertise. i am in this forum to get familiar with something that is unfamiliar to me. i have never built anything. i want to become familiar with different tools and hardware that might be helpful for my project. again, this is a class project. i plan on doing this myself. to resort to calling people names is uncalled for, undeserved and unnecessary especially when all i simply want to do is to become familiar with materials in a hardware store. nonetheless, i thank you for your previous help but i wish that you did not give your input in the first place if you were going to write such such a mean-spirited second posting. i can assure you, i will not use your idea or your design.
didn't you learn basic human anatomy and the six simple machines in school? i am going to assume this is a basic engineering project and you are asking people that have little or no expertise in that field.
