i have a 800mhz ibook laptop and dont have a airport card is there any other products to connect it to my wireless network? i have heard of usb adapters but also heard they dont work.
occurred to me was: why not buy an airport card fro your ibook? the other thing that occurred to me was: why is this person not telling us exactly what sort of ibook they have? is it an ibook with a 800mhz g3 processor or is it an ibook with an 800mhz g4 processor? both are airport ready and both can have an airport card easily inserted. it's a user upgrade for both these machines. note that the g3 machine requires the older, 802.11b, airport card which is more expensive and harder to find. the g4 machine requires an airport extreme card, 802.11g, which are cheaper and easy to find. both of these cards, work. does that help you? p
it is a g4 800mhz i would just get an airport card but i was told only the older discontinued ones will work and people want $60 plus for an outdated card. doesnt make sense to spend 60 bux on a card that uses an old standard when i could go down to wal mart and have a selection of faster wireless adapters for around 40 dollars. of course those dont seem to work. the extreme will work with the g4 ibook?
i am mistaken my ibook is not a g4 it is a g3 800mhz ibook. will the extreme card still work with this?
you will need the older, slightly more expensive, airport card. if you found one for $60, get it. they got for anything up to $160 p
that is just crazy! i think i will find another solution thank you for your help.
it's really not anyone's fault that you have an old machine that requires much sort after accessories. good luck on your hunt, there are usb wireless devices out there that will work in your machine. problem is, finding them. p
give macwirless.com a try. they have 100% compatible wireless solutions for almost every mac.
$60 is a good price on a used card. most people are selling them on ebay for 80-100 dollars. old macs are great, but the laws of supply and demand will dictate the price of add-ons and upgrades. some hotels offer wireless access points that plug into the ethernet port ... maybe they can be had somewhere, or ask a hotel that uses them if they would sell a used one to you. good luck, greg
here's a usb solution:  and some more info on that solution:   good luck, greg
i am sympathetic, believe me, and it is admirable to be frugal, as you clearly are. i have a g3 powerbook without an airport card, myself, and have given some thought to getting the right card for my little workhorse, though it has (unfortunately) more pressing demands, at present--if i read things correctly, beginning with a new battery. leaving frugality aside, though, you seem already to have some kind of network arrangement (did i read you right?), and the airport card would allow you to use hot spots all over, so unless there is another, much cheaper solution, why not go for the card? for that $60 (lucky you--i've seen the same cards offered only for more than $100) you'd be getting a lot more utility and enjoyment out of your computer. my two cents and no disrespect. jenny
