what kind of hardware would best allow me to share my pc monitor (sony sdm-hs73) with my xbox? i've heard tv tuner cards or special adapters (e.g. startech comp2vga game-console-to-pc-monitor adapter) but would like specific feedback if possible. i would prefer a solution that allows me to switch between both uses as easily as possible (i.e. don't want to have to plug/unplug stuff all the time). the main reason i ask is that i want to use xbox live but my phone jacks are limited (2 in whole house, neither near our only tv where xbox currently located). i would love to simply put my xbox on my desk which is huge and share the dsl and hopefully the monitor too.
a kvm switch or a vga switch are the best devices to share your monitor between the pc and xbox. you'll need the xbox vga cable. here's an inexpensive kvm:  and a vga switch:  the kvm switch should allow you to use your keyboard and mouse with the xbox also. as for sharing the dsl line, you'll need a router such as this:  it will connect to your dsl modem and your pc and xbox will connect to it.
...that i have a linksys wrt54gs router that should work fine for the dsl. thanks for the info and the links. in the meantime i have also found a few reputably reliable vga adapters which have a quick switch between pc and console. i am optimistic one of these will work well - the picture quality on the vdigi is supposed to be excellent, as well as a couple of others. if not, i will likely get a tv tuner card...
...unless you want to record your xbox (or use the tv capabilities). the xbox vga out is much sharper than tv out so go with the kvm/vga switch if you're going to a lcd monitor.
although recording some of my xbox stuff would be hilarious, i don't really need that capability. thanks for the tip.
to display your x-box on your monitor your going to need a switch that converts rca signal to vga signal, key digital makes such an animal,  , but it is pricey. its called the clear video 3.
they're only $40 and specifically designed for connecting the xbox to a computer monitor.
does the x-box output in high def using this cable? and where can i find one?
or search their site for &quot;xbox vga&quot;
yes, for the xbox 360, not for the original x-box.
