ok, so i have this new state of the art computer, and somewhat older hp 40 (all in one) printer. when i first connected the printer to the computer everything was ok. after several days, i cannot print anything from a web site. if i pay a bill and i want to print the confirmation, i get an error message. if i copy the confirmation and paste it to word, i still cannot print it until i do a reboot. this happens everytime. is it something to do with pop up blockers? i am lost and don't know what to do. i have the same pop up blocker i had with my older computer and ha never had this issue. this is a xp professional os, while my ols one was windows 98. thanks for any help.
are you hooked up with a standard parellel cable for your printer .. or usb? check that... also please click your strt button down there on the lower left of your screen click start then select &quot;settings&quot; then &quot;control panel&quot; then administrative tools&quot; then &quot;services&quot; now scroll down that huge list of services and look for the one that says &quot;printer spooling&quot; look close.. now wehn you f ind it you must make sure it is set on &quot;auto&quot; and start the service right there if you can
thanks for the input, i will try this and see. i am hooked up with parallel cable.
i followed your suggestion. even though the 'printer spooling' was set to 'auto' i reset it and it seems to work now. thanks for helping out.
it worked once and now cannot print anything from websites. i have to copy what i want to print to word document, save it, reboot my computer and then i can print from the word document. the printer spooler is set to 'auto'. anything else i can try please?
i am hardware technical engineer for hp all in one printers providing technical trouble shooting steps through chat support.
ok, so what do you reckon the problem is? i uninstalled and re-installed the printer and on the first go it seems to have worked. however, in the past also whenever i did something like this it worked the first time and then it was not able to print any longer.
