i want to setup a wireless network in my home but dont know were to start i own two dell laptops an inspiron 1000 and an inspiron 1501. both have xp operating systems. i also have a dell 926 all in one printer. currently to access the internet i go online with an old windows 98 dial up system. i want to get rid of this one all together. im going with either dsl or cable with my network. i dont plan on replacing the desktop. i know that i will need a modem with dsl or cable for a high speed internet access. if i understand it right the modem will be connected to a router? after that im lost. the inspiron 1000 has a plug in 1390 adapter the other laptop has a 1490 wireless card installed. i have used both in wi-fi hotspots without problems. do i connect the printer direct to the router or use a device like a dell 3300 wireless printer adapter? my 1501 came with norton security installed with a firewall. i know i will need a firewall of some kind to protect my files but dont know how to set it up on the whole network. i dont even know which router to buy? i have more questions than answers at this point. im in hopes i can find help here for those not at all knowable when it comes to networking.
your new setup would be wall &gt; dsl modem/router &gt; wireless router &gt; wired/wireless you'll plug an ethernet cable into the wireless router and follow the setup instructions. first you'll have to update the firmware in your new wireless router. most sit in a warehouse and the firmware becomes outdated. broadcast your ssid use wpa security use nothing else. now turn everything off, wait 15 seconds and turn everything back on. try to connect using the wireless cards in the laptops. type in the password, your connected. dell wireless print adapter instructions. plug the wireless print adapter into your computer using the usb cable. insert the disk and follow the instructions. when finished, you'll be hooking up the wireless print adapter to the printer. printer driver instructions insert your dell photo aio printer 926 drivers disk into your computer. choose network choose i'm directly connected using a print server find your printer follow the instructions. when done remove disk. insert your dell photo aio printer 926 drivers disk into the other computer and do the same installation method. now each computer can use all the functions of the printer, without the other computer being turned on. now you're not clueless anymore. rick
thank you for the reply. hopefully i can give it a try soon. i may have to wait till after the holidays just depends on the $$$. blair
