hp once told me how to remove static electricity to reduce random mouse movements. anyone remember how? hp dv6256us, vista 32-bit i've been searching & only finding irrelevent links... thanks!!
static would dissipate within a few minutes of you sitting down at your pc. unless you sit with woolen slippers on and shuffle your feet on the carpet?
static can sit in something. that's what static means. do you know the process? it was pushing down the power button when turned off or something. thanks,
i did esd control in the labs for years. we would treat surfaces, install wrist straps and more. however in pcs you have many conductive surfaces so it goes away in a few minutes after you sit down. unless you are generating it! bob
i've seen it mentioned before. seriously. i'm not looking for your view of it disapating. i'm looking for the process. working in a lab, it would disapate. in closed box - there is a process to release any build up. that's for bumping this up with answers, but i hope someone who remembers, notices this post.
unknown. thoughts. since you are the source/battery....touch and hold something grounded. i doubt you can build much of a charge if you have your finger on a ground. raise the humidity in the area. static will bleed off faster than you can generate it.
wear the wrist strap to a ground. increase humidity (what is it now?) and my best tool. the antistatic mat on the work surface. let's hope this is not about random mouse movements. that's never been a static issue. i've seen people try that and fail each time. bob
taking out battery, unplugging & holding down power button. so what causes mouse to jump once in a while, or insert to toggle on it's own? i'm doing it because i'm desperate to find ways to reduce something coming from the unit since repair that's hurting my ears. can't hear it, but original problem was the now famous buzz (the rmclock did get rid of it). wish i'd known about that before sending it in. because now something is wrong with the new fan. 1. it's blowing cold. i've changed to older bios so it isn't always on but it's still blowing downright cold air. 2. some buzz or aspect is causing ear pain. i don't need to develop tinnis from a laptop. so figured removing static couldn't hurt - specially since mouse & insert's been a problem since got it back from hp.
now there's a clue. there is a known issue where the laptop battery ages and it loads the laptop psu and you get random mouse and keyboard issues. i consider this discussion almost closed as that is not a static issue. bob
so it has nothing to do with battery doing anything. bob - you don't get to close my discussion. i appreciate your input & if you don't have to add when you don't want to, that's fine. but it is my thread that i started. someone may still be able to confirm static process & more, add something about my problems themselves.
all around it. you may have the age old dancing mouse issue and members as well as i noted how to reduce and remove static. if that is not enough then the issue is elsewhere. in fact, why isn't this a warranty issue at this point? bob
because you have issues with this laptop already and now a static one, it seems too much is going on. with all this happening, you may a warranty problem and have to escalate it for a true repair or refund. of course static(esd) is part of your environment. if you have such an issue, you're the cause as well as the home. you as a person transmit or allow as you're the conduit for esd passage. a properly grounded modern home will provide a path to discharge if you touch anything already grounded. there are desktop style static touchpads for such use. you can then touch laptop. a &quot;anti-static floor mat&quot; can help as well as using static sprays if alot of static build-up is happening. while you mentioned it maybe the battery then you got a &quot;electrical issue&quot; not a static one. let's be clear if all of this is happening, then the 1st sentences above applies. then again, if you truly have a static problem, then its not hp laptop fault, this is something you have to resolve. i have provided some solutions above. you can also take the laptop to a totally different area(someone's else home or library) and check out results there. tada -----willy
which you answered. i said, i'd sent it to hp for repair 3xs & it's getting worse with each repair. i also said, static wasn't a known cause, just one more thing to try for what has become bigger problems (not mouse bouncing, but buzz, ear pain, cold fan blowing too much). so this thread is getting more attention than my first one a day or day ago - that had all the details & worries. i assumed since you'd answered it, you'd followed that info.
thanks for the info. removing static was an effort to see if it'd help the real problems. here's where i posted them. (this link was just because i couldn't remember the removal process for static.)  cold air but fan always on - after hp repair - what's wrong?  buzz making computer unusable (& me into a pretzel) thanks
with each new discussion it is a new discussion. this way the discussion starts unpolluted from prior discussions. dancing mice pointers are not fun to deal with. even more so if it's the laptop pad. for years i've used simple solutions like external mice, no drivers with great success. however once in a while you encounter some that what the mouse pad to be fixed. for that we must deal with the product's maker as there is no other place to go. bob
not the issue. all i wanted with this thread was the process. i added the mouse info because you said there'd couldn't be a static problem. this is way off my original problems. please check out the original threads i've linked to below (in response to next person's inputs).... and see what can help with those. please don't focus on the inconsequential. the mouse isn't &quot;bouncing around&quot; or anything at some rate to worry about. i just wanted the process for removal.
we covered this in this discussion. more than one person has told you how to control static. bob
put not the removal proccess i was looking for that doesn't involve long term special pads or actions. just at the moment removal. obviously you haven't heard of it. so be it. please check out the threads i mentioned & move on from this one. do many people answer on cnet pc hardware except you?
just ground yourself and you drain the static from what you touch in seconds. yes other people answer but something is amiss here. you have the answers but must be searching for something else as a member and i have answered your question. bob ps. my background is from labs where we used many forms of esd controls and measured what was on surfaces and more. it's unlikely you will encounter someone else with years of working with the esd and control of esd issue.
you obviously are not familar with what i'm talking about. you're years of experience can still leave a gap in smaller items here or there, such as the procedure i'm talking about. besides - you haven't gone back to the original issues. just focused from the beginning of this tread to now to tell me &quot;i&quot; don't know what i'm doing. you're really got to read the details to understand what i said. no grounding myself to it won't do what i was trying for - there is a procedure, i think just holding down the power button without power. so, please buzz off or help me fix the buzz . i'm beginning to feel a bit of arrogance coming my way & i'm frustrated enough, without that too.
i see that you want to remove static. this is very easy. just ground yourself and hold onto the laptop at some metal surface. the usb port is a good one. in a minute the static is drained. now you say its still there? let's say it is. and let's say it causes your mouse to jump. here's the problem. as the mouse jumps some of that potential energy is used up so it will fade within a few minutes. -&gt; i feel your frustration with the jumping mouse but you are pursuing a dead end. maintain this direction at your own peril of missing out on the real fixes. bob
you aren't reading my notes & giving me nonsense answers. your even claiming i said things i didn't say. enough. try actually reading what i wrote.
you are asking how to remove static electricity which you say is causing your mouse to move. &quot;how remove static elec from system? by cheriberry - 7/7/09 1:30 pm hp once told me how to remove static electricity to reduce random mouse movements. anyone remember how? hp dv6256us, vista 32-bit i've been searching & only finding irrelevent links... thanks!!&quot; looks quite clear to me what the question is. bob
