hi, i have 2 (1 old, 1 new) computers (the old one running windows xp professional and the new one running windows xp professional sp2) that are sharing the same cable net connection through a linksys wrt54gc router. this configuration worked for a couple of years but now, only the new computer will connect to the internet. the old computer doesn't connect at all. i have already tried: 1) restarting the computer 2) powercycling the modem and router that didn't fix it. also, i notice that when i restart the old computer, in ipconfig, everything seems correct, but the internet connection doesn't work. here are the settings: connection-specific dns suffix: ok.shawcable.net ip address: 192.168.1.101 subnet mask: 255.255.255.0 default gateway: 192.168.1.1 then, i enter the command ipconfig /release and i get this connection-specific dns suffix: ip address: 0.0.0.0 subnet mask: 0.0.0.0 default gateway: then, i enter ipconfig /renew and i get this error: an error ocurred when renewing interface local area connection : unable to contact your dhcp server. request has timed out. then, i enter the command ipconfig again and i see this configuration: connection-specific dns suffix: autoconfiguration ip address: 169.254.78.32 subnet mask: 255.255.0.0 default gateway: ---------------------------------------------------------------------- i just think its weird how one computer can connect to the net and one cant. thanks in advance
is to update the old one to sp2. there are enhanced networking applications in sp2. second thing is to update the router firmware. third - move the ethernet cable to another port on the router. one port may have gone bad. fourth - replace the nic. or just for grins, swap it with the working one, see if the problems moves. that oddball ip address 169.254.78.32 comes up when the nic cannot access the lan. wayne click here to see the cnet faces, learn a little about analog and digital data, internet connections, spyware removal, and download free software. 5 db hot.
first of all, i can't update the older one to sp2 because last time i attempted to install sp2 on the computer, the computer locked up in the middle of installation and wouldn't boot and the os had to be reinstalled. i'll try and update the router firmware and see what happens. i'l also try plugging the cable into another port on the router. i really don't want to replace or move the nic. thanx for the help
trading connections and see if one works or both. could make your guesswork easier in narrowing down the problem. rick
