i have not been a a big fan of the past amd processors. i have had pentiums. looking to get a new set up and looking at the large price difference. reading reports and such make me re think the athlon. which is better for gaming, videos, mp3's and such. amd athlon 64 or intel pentium d processor. i would like to get the most bang for the buck. the problems i have seen in the past is incompatability with software and the amd.
the hot one now is the amd 64 dual core and 2 pci express video cards (nvidia geforce) in sli mode. but that's top end. i have a single core amd athlon 64 and it runs quieter and uses less power than intel. a great little chip.
thanks for the information. have you had any incompatability issues with software ?
i usually run the firefox browser and do some light video editing and some games. i just need to put in a graphics card and maybe boost the ram a bit to 1 gb.
...&quot;amd athlon 64 x2&quot; processors. (x2 = dual core)
i am looking at the new pentium 975x chipset and the speed it has w ht (dual core w ht) and wondering if you went for intel or amd and what your experiences have been with your decision. i am about to make this decission between amd and intel and would appreciate any input. with the new dual core 975x it is tempting to go with pentium but the benchmarking is really confusing and this is a new addition from intel - hasn't been around enough for me to find much from anyone who has seen it in action. suggestions?(looking to add a new windows pc that can use vista later - do picture and film work but not full length and don't do gaming). thanks
after checking out everything here at cnet and at a site tomeshardware.com i figured out that the amd x2 either the 4200 or the 3800 will more than do what i want it to do. now i have to decide between the hp or gateway variations. not this computer but the next i will probably build it. all tests i saw had the amd x2's dominating the intel d's. srieth
even intel has thrown that out because amd cpu's outperform them while running at much lower speeds. almost all new intels at this time are desperate moves on their part as gap fillers until they can get their new lower power [heat] lower clock speed cpu's out, and end up with improved performance from new architecture.
not looking at only speed issues - even though it is a factor. looking at over all value. take a intal and amd of the same cofiguration and i have found that the intel is the most expensive by 200 - 300 dollars. also checking out cnets tests and a few other sites tests it is a decisive amd love fest. i will admit that i have not liked atholons up until this point but this should change that additude. srieth
intel's advertised speed is always higher than amd, because it uses a technique called quad data rate, which transfers 4 data per clock cycle. let's say the intel cpu is said to be 3.2ghz, it's real clock is actually only 800mhz, because 3200/4=800. amd uses a technique called double data rate, it transfers 2 data per clock. therefore, lets say u have an amd with 2.2ghz, the true clock is 2200/2, which equals to 1.1ghz. thus amd is actually faster than intel. it may not make sense to you now, but if you look at the link on the bottom, and do some other research, you will see what i am talking about. you may not understand what i am saying now, because i am bad at explaining things, but you will after some googling.  cheers
because usually in the benchmarks you see now, the intel test systems are not optimized, while amd is, because the amd one usaully has dual channel ddr400. in order for a system to be optimized, the cpu's fsb must match half the ddr frequency. amd with 400mhz fsb + dual channel ddr400 = optimized intel with 800mhz fsb + dual channel ddr800 = optimized
