i have been using a wg111 wireless usb adapter for some number of years. my previous configuration (winxp pro sp2, home-brew athlon xp system) worked fine for 2-3 years. i recently &quot;upgraded&quot; to a dell dimension 9200 (winxp pro sp2, core2 duo, etc.) and periodically get bsod at boot time due to driver crashes. i have not (yet) lost data. in trying to track down this problem, i have seen much scathing commentary. i guess i just lucked out --- until now. i am using the latest drivers... so, is there a stable wireless g usb adapter out there? should i switch to pci? my network is stable, as there are 3-4 laptops having no problems. the setup in my house precludes a wired connection. thanks, al
and you are using my suggested router settings? read  what's those settings? (wpa and leave ssid broadcasting, no other settings from stock!) bob
bob, thanks for the quick reply. the download states that i will get driver version 5.1254.1120.2006. when i check in device manager, i still get 3.0.18.201. the driver dir of the update did not seem to have an inf file for the wg111v2, just a .sys file. the inf file is net111v2. also, when i try to run the installed &quot;netgear wg111v2 smart wizard&quot; i get the hourglass for 1/2 second. btw - did you got to penn st?
sorry the driver didn't contain any update. ok there are other reasons for this to crash. let's try a few tools and scans. 1. run winsockfix. retest. 2. scan with this tool, tell me if it found anything other than cookies.  if there were any pests removed repeat item 1. 3. i wasn't sure if it crashed everytime, but if so what else is in the event viewer? bob
event log has this: a duplicate name has been detected on the tcp network. the ip address of the machine that sent the message is in the data. use nbtstat -n in a command window to see which name is in the conflict state. for more information, see help and support center at  . there are no other machines on the net at this time... need to leave for a few hours. i will check back later. thanks for all of your help!
that is exactly one of the clues that lead me to write about escalating numbers of a new wifi exploit tool. this does cause drivers to crash! read  the fix is thankfully easy. just take the router's defaults, rename the ssid, enable wpa, let ssid broadcast and it should knock the attacker offline. a few report that the attack continues for a few days but the move to wpa usually finds them giving up in a week or less. bob
bob, thanks again for the worthwhile information! now i just need to figure out the best way to run the radius server for my home net. i would prefer not to leave a computer on all the time, but i may again, your help has been exceptional!
no radius server is needed. bob
wpa-psk transition was straightforward. now, i will wait to see if i get another bsod. thanks again...
it's windows... sorry but i've yet to see this platform to be perfected yet. if it doesn't do this in a day you have to consider other issues. bob
yes, i understand the periodic bsod will occur. you say, &quot;if it doesn't do this in a day you have to consider other issues.&quot; do you man &quot;does&quot;? sorry to belabor.
i could have written that better, but i think the point is that it is what it is. bob
thanks again for all of you help!!!
