hello friends, i am nelson batten. i am from la california. i am new here and i am also needed information on inkjet printers like how should i handle my cartridge? thanks,
use of most cartridges is very simple. you remove the old one, put in the new one and use it up. today we take the old cartridge to the store for credit or recycle. bob
hello bob, thanks for the suggestion but can you please let me know how does my inkjet cartridge work? what is a re-manufactured ink jet cartridge?
here's a few starter links.
hi bob, again thanks for your suggestions and i appreciated your help.
re-manufactured cartridges have been recycled to meet or exceed oem (original equipment manufacturer) specifications. the recycling process involves disassembling, inspecting, thoroughly cleaning, reassembling and completely filling the product with ink. finally, the cartridge is run through an actual print test.
hi johns, i can read your reply in other forum. thanks for your great support. nelson.
thanks for your feedback if you face any problem. don't hesitate to ask me.
which ink cartridges can be recycled? can i return my recycled cartridge as credit?
friends, i really need some basic information so please give me your suggestion.
what kind of help do you need? which is your ink company? ask customer support for it.
dear friends, as i already mention in my second post that i am looking for information on use of inkjet printers cartridges i have find out one website from where i got the information on use of &quot;oem matched&quot; products. they provide &quot;oem matched&quot; products for epson printer ink cartridges, hp inkjet cartridges and canon printer ink cartridges . still i need some more information on inkjet printer cartridges.
what specific details do you need? inkjet cartridges are a large topic in itself. maybe video tutorials might help. check out  .
general rule of thumb for ink jet cartridges is to never place your fingers or hands on the cartridge contacts. laser cartridges usually present no problem because the toner is sealed within the cartridge and protected against handling.
the printing depends on the smooth flow of ink, which can be hindered if the ink begins to dry at the print head, as can happen when an ink level becomes low; dried ink can be cleaned from a cartridge print head, by gentle rubbing with isopropyl alcohol on a swab or folded paper towel.
