i recently put together a computer that has a blank harddrive. i bought windows xp (bootable) to use as an operating system. when i turn the pc on it says that there is no harddrive. when i put in my old (2gb) harddrive it uses it right away but not the new harddrive. ive tried everything. it works, i know that much. any thoughts?
and it cannot detect the harddrive? is this a sata hdd. by chance?
1. bios not set to autodetect drives 2. sata drive on raid configured port (move to another port) 3. pata drive not jumpered correctly 4. defective drive or cable the first place to look is in the bios setup menu. boot there see what drives show up. it sounds as if the cd/dvd rom is detected. the hd listing should be in that general area. as well, make sure the hd spins up. you should be able to hear the motor start and the clicking from the heads initializing.
in the xp installation where you must hit 'f6'(?) to load any special drivers for sata hard disk drives. did you try that ? sometimes you have to create a floppy disk to load the driver. it would really help if you provided more detail about the hard drive . . .make/model number/type(sata-pata ?) and the motherboard mfg and model number. keep us posted. vapcmd
the harddrive is a quantum fireball, pata, part #qml20000ld-a it came in a gateway tower. it had windows 98 on it. the light for the hd comes on for a second but then shuts off. the hd spins for a moment and then quits. everything is hooked up right, i took it apart and everything looks fine. i have a really old 2gb hd that i have rebuilt and it works just fine for being nearly 11 years old. i cant figure out the quantum.
are you an archeologist?
or tried it on another pc ? sure the jumpering is ok ? sure the cable is ok ? if any question ...place the hdd on cable by itself. vapcmd
ok. ok. the parts are old but that half the fun getting them to work again. ive tried the hd on several pc's with the same result. i have tried 9 different cables, the jumper is on the master setting and still no luck. i may end up buying a new hd, i dont want to because this is just a little project i have to save an aunt from a windows 95 machine! that thing is old.
