hi everyone. i posted a topic a while back about internet problems, but i'm back again. i`m using a lg x120 netbook. my wireless router is dlink dir-601. operating system: windows 7 what happens is my internet stops working for gaps at a time. it will not disconnect, but the page will stop loading and lead me to the cannot display page. when i posted my problems before, here were some of the responses: 1) reset your wireless router to factory settings, then set it up again. ---i did this, set it up as followed on the instructions, still having the same problems. 2) make sure you are using wpa and not wep. ---i am. 3) make sure your firmware is up to date. ---there is nowhere on dlinks website to download a `firmware update`for the dir-601. there is a webpage that lets me log into my router, and it says i am firmware 1.00na. 4) try unplugging for 30s and plug back in. ---tried it, still problems. here`s something else that might help, i am not sure: when the internet does cut out and i get the error webpage, i click the `troubleshoot` button and windows does its scan for errors type thing. this is usually what happens. 1) scans. result: windows couldn`t identify the problem. fixed. internet now works again until next cut out. 2) scans. result: dns server isn`t responding. fixed. internet now works again until next cut out. 3) scans. result: windows cannot automatically detect this network`s settings. fixed. internet now works until next cut out. please help me, i am so frusterated. i am not only frusterated by my slow, cutting out internet at my home, but i am more frusterated at the fact that i don`t know very much about computers and i can`t fix this. thank you in advance for helping me out forum...
has suggested settings. i can't find your router settings so here they are again. 1. router defaults. 2. wpa security. that's it. bob
that's what you said last time, and i just stated again in this topic that i've done that, and it hasn't fixed anything.
when i log into my router, and try to make changes, and save, it says &quot;this feature has been disabled on this emulator.&quot;
this tells me you are not changing the router but the netgear or other emulator page. share the url of that router setup page for confirmation. bob
i login as admin and try to change the settings, but anything i click will give me a &quot;this feature is disabled...&quot; message.
this explains why you haven't made the changes to your router. sorry but i would be guessing if your router is at:  this can vary but that's a common one. thanks for telling what you were doing. it explained a lot. bob
thanks for taking the time to find/type that link for me, bob. i entered the settings from that url, and found that i am using the newest firmware and using wpa. i changed it to wpa2 because it said something about stronger connection with it. so.. i guess everything looks good now. i hope so anyways. thanks again for your help.
given the new attacks it may not be long till i have to upgrade the forum sticky from wpa to wpa2. there is no need to panic yet but i do see the biggest problem is that not everyone wants to be their own it staff guru and dust bunny collector. hope all this helped you out, merry christmas, bob
hey bob, it's happened again. my laptop disconnected twice tonight, about an hour between the two times. my roommates laptop didn't disconnect at all. do you have a suggestion for a next step..?
1. see if your machine has newer wifi drivers. 2. replace the wifi card. if you are running p2p downloads, wifi is known to buckle. not much you can do for those that haven't learned to get wired for that use. bob
got this router for x-mas, sigh, nice thought, but total absolute junk. to fix the constant disconnect: 1 go into your router settings 2 click &quot;advanced&quot; tab up top 3 click &quot;advanced wireless&quot; tab on left 4 change the beacon period to 20 this will slow down the connection speed somewhat(about 20%), but will enable the router to hold a steady connection. wonder what is an adequate time period before i &quot;accidentally&quot; break it and get a new one. seriously total junk, d-link never should have put it on the market.
