hi; got a friend's laptop that's 3-4 years old with win 7. first the keyboard stopped working. then apparently weird things started happening to it (i asked, suspecting the mb). then it now won't boot. it tries, but doesn't succeed. cannot boot in safety mode either. reads the usb ports but cannot boot a bootable thumb drive. cannot boot from dvd either. changed the bios to accommodate those before the hd. pulled the hd and still can't boot from other media. in a remote area of india (a jungle), hard to get to town to buy stuff, test, etc. but from what i know of computers, sure sounds like the mb to me. your thoughts or ideas? tia, john
dollars to donuts that it's heat related. heat has probably weakened some part on it. keyboard may just have dirt or crumbs in it, give it a good upside down shaking, or vacuum it, or none of that exist there, use a straw and blow. when it fails to boot does it power off, or just freeze while fan on cpu continues to blow? if you replace the laptop, get something low power that can take a hot climate.
india's a very big place. i live in the foothills of the himalayas. it's not hot here...nor is it cold...nor is it humid. i come from the caribbean and that was hotter and more humid and i haven't seen a problem like this before. no, it doesn't freeze up nor power down. john
just what laptop model# is this and how are you powering it or recharging? next, be prepared for a teardown, since being in a remote location you may have some issue if this isn't a &quot;robust laptop&quot; like in it can take it. typical laptops can only take so much and don't be surprised that it maybe insect related(maybe). a teardown gives a close inspection of the innards and checks to see if any dust build-up is truly removed. stopped or broken fans are common as well as dust build-up even if blown-out some dust clods may migrate deep into the cooling setup to include any vents. 3-4yrs. is plenty of time for all this to happen and let's not forget the battery if this is the original, replace or have at least direct ac hook-up and good power too. and yes, having a good battery even during ac hook-up makes a difference. try a &quot;live version&quot; of a bootable linux disc, like ubuntu, burnt properly it should be bootable. alas, the dvd drive must be a good one to boot at all. test the bootable disc, elsewhere. tada -----willy
also, there are so many optical drive failures in old laptops like this that i always find myself demoing how a good drive works. however, did you try a bootable usb memory stick? i won't detail how since such is all over the internet. why i note this is that i have helped a few get onto some linux on usb and get some use out of their otherwise useless broken hardware. bob
so i tore it down again just to double-check the dust. very little dust for such an old machine, no bugs. fan worked fine. i hadn't tested that before because i didn't want to run it without the back cover, but when i did, she booted just fine! had to go back to a previous rebuild or whatever, but she worked. then i shut her down, put the back cover on and tried again, no problemo. but why? john
and tear down, build it again can get a contact to make contact and it works. bob
i specificity asked for details. why? because some models are prone to problems or early failure. you may have such a laptop and the problems will continue even though now it works. just keep that in mind, since you really don't know why it works now. it's all a guessing game until you find the real cause of problem(s). regardless, a 3-4yr. old laptop should have some issues because after 18mos. the battery alone should be replaced, because in some models heat build-up due to constant recharging and/or less than sustained levels aren't always precise and cause that charging ckt. to breakdown or cause weird results to include battery as well. if the battery had been replaced some time back, was it from a good source, rebuilds aren't always reliable or trusted. as for operation of laptop now working don't exclude &quot;corrosion&quot; or minor contact areas. these can be easily reconnected by simply reseating and breaking to new contact surfaces(micro-scratches) to make good contact, however this doesn't exclude bad wire harness or seating. makes ure on harness, they're &quot;locked-in&quot; even though it may appear so. tada -----willy
good advice! john
