first off, i have never dealed with power supplies before. the specs of my system are 512 mb ram, 2.5 ghz pentium 4, 80 gb hard drive. it's decent for what i need. anyway, i went to class this morning (i'm a college student) and i turned it off before i left. when i returned, i went to turn it on and it didn't respond. i tried flipping the switch in the back, didn't work, flipped it back, didn't work, unplugged it for 20 minutes then came back and tried it again, didn't work. there is a small red switch on the back, one way says 15 the other says 230 on my power supply. i tried flipping that, didn't work. my computer is a northgate i-1, power supply is an iso-300 and my computer won't turn on. someone help me please!!!
a 300 watt unit is on the small side but may be ok unless the machine was upgraded from what it came with. the 15 is more likely 115. this and the 220 is the voltage input selection. 220 will not be proper for most of us. if you feel its the power supply, then you can find 450 watt units or larger (do not skimp!) for not much money at newegg.com , compgeeks.com and other places. be sure to see if the ac cord powers up something else and that the power button is not defective. here's how i test such.. 1. first unplug the ac. 2. set it back to 115... 3. open the case and follow the power on button wires to the motherboard. unplug just that and rember where it went to on the mainboard. 4. apply the ac, flip the power supply to on, then use a metal pen tip (or such conductive item) to short the two pins that the power on switch went to. what happens? be alert since nothing is typical of a dead supply, while a twitch of the fans may indicate other dead parts. bob
are there any fans running when you hit the power switch/button on the front of your case? if not, then i would suspect the power supply died. you can find replacements online, or at circuit city/best buy. if you need help selecting one, please let me know and i can do some research for you.
ok.actually i know what to do with your computer. actually i also see this problem last 2 months. i think u should buy a regulator. because regulator can monitor our computer.
