hi all, i am running windows xp pro with sp 2 and all the latest updates available from microsoft. i use avg anti-virus free edition, have ad-watch (ad aware) personal for anti spyware, and zone alarm pro as my firewall. i am using an integrated ethernet card (sis 900 pci fast ethernet adapter) i did not use to have trouble connecting to the internet through my router until last week when the icon for low connectivity appeared and all connections failed. the error message is &quot;. . . network did not assign network address. . .&quot; i have tried calling my isp but whatever they instructed me to has failed. i have tried turning off my firewall and anti-spyware software but it doesnt help. i also tried updating the network card drivers with the lastest from sis and that has not helped. i have tried removing and reinstalling the network card but it has not helped either. switching cables and ports on the router has not helped either. getting windowsxp to try to fix the problem has also failed as the error message is that the ip address cannot be renewed. i have a laptop connected to the same router as well and it does not have any problems accessing the internet through the router. (i use to use the internet simultaneously on both systems without a hitch. i also have set up file, printer sharing etc on both computers) i am basically at my wits ends and cant think of anything else to do. any suggestions? is this a settings problem or has my network card gone berserk?
i've been in the same boat before. make sure that not only the zone alarm but also the windows firewall from sp2 is disabled. maybe you have checked this but, make sure the adapter is set to automatic assigning of the ip and dns. if that doesn't help, might be time for a new adapter. good luck!
1. download and install the latest network interface driver from the computer mfg or motherboard mfg (not from sis and don't use the driver from windows update). 2. download and install the latest router firmware for the router. btw, what is the router model number? 3. is router dhcp server enabled/on? is network adapter set to attain ip address automatically? 4. check to see if you have the latest motherboard bios version (computer mfg website or motherboard website). 5. download and run winsockxpfix
you can connect previously, unless you do any change or update to any other component before your problem. if possible, try other card.. i also suspect the card is going bad.
hi. you might have a passcode issue with one. u said your laptop connect with no problem. look how it connect and do the same with the one having problem connecting. ok call the router co. the one were you bought your router. ask them that it is not connecting. luck to u.
hey linkit and gakada, thanks for the advice. winsock xp fix worked wonders..... thanks for the directions and all.... thanks to everyone else who gave advice... cheers!!!
