your help / advice is sought. i have a sony 50&quot; lcd wega hd-tv with a hdmi jack that i would like to use as a computer monitor. i am not in need of the functionality of a windows media pc. windows xp pro will work fine. my main interest/goal is to be able to use a pc, probably a desktop, as a gateway to my home network with an emphasis on displaying the browser and crusing the internet. any suggestions or directions where i can find a confirmation of a solid pc configuration and any tweaks i need to be aware of or plan for? thanks! jhh
does the tv have a monitor port?
no port labeled &quot;monitor&quot; but other threads have said a dvi to hdmi cable into the hdmi port that is on the tv cable will work?
you can use a dvi to hdmi cable to connect your computer to the tv. this should work fine. the hard part it to get it to display correctly. i assuming your sony tv is a 1280 x 720 progressive display. one would think all you would need to do is set you computer to display 1280 x 720 x 32 bitdepth resolution from the dvi port of the computer. if your lucky and your tv will allow it, this is all you have to do. the problem is that the hdmi standard included an overscan specification, that most tv will ahear to. this means that when your computer displays 1280 x 720 the image will be overscanned and the edges of the image will be cut off from your screen. for example only the top blue line of the start bar will be visable and the rest of the start bar will be cut off below the screen. there are methods to solve this thought. one is to use a custom resolution that will not be cut off (ie 1200 x 666). another way is to use non standard custom scan rates. somtimes you may need to do both. there is a shareware program that will alow computers to do this called powerstrip. a place you can look for more imformation is  do a search on your tv model number and the word &quot;powerstrip&quot; or &quot;htpc&quot;. hopefully someone will have already solved this problem for you and list how they did it. i hope this is usefull to you.
hi there, sorry if this is in the wrong section but im new to this forum business lol; i bought an lg hdtv 32lg5700 today along with an lg rht387h hdd/dvd recorder with 1080p upscaling plus an hdmi cable to connect them with. i set them up along with my sky box as instructed and everything worked fine up until i tried to test out a dvd, i selected the hdmi port that the player was connected to the tv with and i got a picture, but when i try to play a dvd or even try to go to the player's options menu the tv switches to the other hdmi port it has built in and says 'no signal' which is no surprise since i only have the one hd device connected up, when i switch the cable over to the other hdmi port and try again the tv does exactly the same thing but in reverse, if you know what i mean... funnily enough when i connect the hdd/dvd player up with a regular scart cable everything works as it should... is there a problem with the tv or am i missing something??? if anyone needs extra info just ask and i'll try my best to accomodate. thanks
