does anyone know a site that can tell me how to set up a wireless network with two different operating systems? please be specific, give a link or something, don't just say look around cnet.
for example, here is a linux based wap. since windows is covered widely i didn't supply a link. there are many (too many) articles about this. the killer item however is that in linux, many fail to research if there is support for their card. that tends to be the issue bob
thanks fo the link, but what i need is a good thoruogh, informative link for networking for windows. all of the sites i have seen so far have only talked about networking with xp. i'm trying to network two computers. one has windwos 2000 and one has xp.
you don't have a wap. yes this is rarely covered but you missed it since it's called by another name. -&gt; it's called adhoc networking. i never had to consult any documentation to set that up. i set the adapters to adhoc mode and waited. too easy and maybe why it's not covered widely. bob
if wap is a wireless access point, i have a wireless router (d-link di-624). the router is wired to the dsl modem and my pc. my laptop has an atheros ar5001x+ wireless network adapter. the problem is that, on both the pc and the laptop, when i try to dial into the internet, enternet says there was no response from the remote computer. as well, although i'm pretty sure the computers are connected i can't get them to share printers or files. eveything i've read on networking so far has either been for windows 98 or xp, never for 2000. i'm sure it will be pretty easy to enable file and printer sharing,but my bigger problem is the internet. if know a way to fix this let me know, but if you know any good sites that could help, that would be fine. thanks for your help.
why are you doling out the details? i've guessed wrong 2 times now and given your useless information. sorry about that, but it could explain why you are finding it difficult to find help. in closing, it seems you have a normal setup. in that case just read what came with the router. nothing is out of the ordinary so i bid you well and write that your setup has thousands of web sites of help. bob
all i want is a good site. if there are thousands of sites that address my issue, can't you give me a one or two? i haven't found any for networking windows 2000 to xp.
99.99% of the time set the tcpip settings in xp and 2000 to dhcp then plug them into the dlink router. bingo. they are now networked. you have yet to reveal what networking feature is not working or if you can't share files or more. i can't guess what step is eluding you. you may have done something like installed a firewall and didn't allow filesharing, but this is yet to be revealed. please take time to tell more. bob
and click on the product manual link. follow the directions. so far, nothing shared here reveals anything other than a stock setup. cheers, bob
my problems are that i can't connect to my dsl connection, i might be picking up the neighbours broadband connection and i can't file and print share. as well, when i created a netsetup file (with the network setup wizard) on my windows xp laptop my windows 2000 computer told me that netsetup was not compatible with windows 2000. however, i finally got windows xp so i'm going to install that and then reset the router. hopefully then i will be able to set up the network. thanks for your help anyways.
