i am thinking of changing my normal 17&quot; lcd monitor to a wide screen lcd. however, i am concerned about distortion of images, e.g. a spherical shape will be &quot;falttened&quot; at the top and borrom ? people becomes &quot;fatter&quot;... will there be problems with photo editing, e.g. photoshop ? comments, please. thanks. christy
set your graphics card to the native resolution of the monitor.
...for the information. so the graphics card must be compatible, otherwise, have it changed ? haven't thought of that ! thanks. christy
not only must we install the graphics card driver but the monitor.inf file for that monitor in a lot of cases to inform the graphics card driver what video modes to offer the owner. this area is a little confusing at first. bob
just bought a 22&quot; 1680x1050 samsung monitor to replace old 19&quot; 1280x1024 crt. the new monitor works but the highest i'm offered in display settings is 1280x1024, even though my pc clearly recognisies the new monitor and i've installed its driver. i've been told that any graphics card should be able to handle a higher resolution with ease (my graphic card was bought 2003)so any ideas why i can't get the right res for the new monitor? many thanks hajr12
make, model of display, display card, driver versions of the video card and a link to the monitor.inf for your monitor. without such i can't offer much. bob
apologies monitor = samsung 2232bw driver installed. info at:  graphics card = s3 graphics prosavageddr bought with pc (xp, athlon 2400) almost four years ago. driver is the latest available i believe = s3gnb.dll 6.14.10.0033, date 13/08/04. i'm sorry i'm not sure what monitor.inf is, but will supply if you kindly advise. thanks for your swift response. hajr
read  and repeat the steps they did to fix it. if you can't find the latest drivers for any of the items, call the place you got it and ask for them or ask for an exchange. bob
thanks bob. unfortunately the link you gave appears to be down at present. is it possible my current graphics card is too old/unsupported in terms of drivers to handle a widescreen monitor? bottom line: is this a problem i could solve simply by buying a more up to date graphics card? regards hajr
[h]ard|forum go back [h]ard|forum &gt; [h]ard|ware &gt; displays reload this page new samsung 2232bw driver problem user name remember me? password register faq [h]ard|ocp today's posts search search forums show threads show posts advanced search go to page... reply
at my college the techs in charge ain't the brightest bulb in the box, and as well as a load of other caveats (logging us all in as administrator accounts...) the widescreen displays are all defaulted at 1024x768...
thanks for all your help. turned out my motherboard was a grand-motherboard and wouldn't support a graphics card sufficient to power the monitor at the native res - or something. cheers hajr12
