-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- i have optiarc dvd rw ad-7170s and it is only reading dvd rewritables. i am using my video editing program, premier elements 7. i tried burning taiyo yuden dvd and doesn't burn. they used to work on that program. i just updated the dvd driver of 1.3 version instead of old version of 1.00. why is my dvd drives only burning rewritables(rw) and not taiyo uden, and other dvd anymore, is there away to change the settings.. . cause i heard taiyo yuden are a great quality brand of dvd.. i used them for my customers, but now can't use them only rewritables(rw)? please help?
did you try a new dvdrw drive? that's how i see if the problem is the aging drive or some software setting.
yeah i have 3 other drives and tried all of them... is there a setting that i change in the optiarc 7170s to do dvd + and - and not just rewritables...i emailed optiarc just now, i am just hearing a respons efrom tghem possibly tomororw.
batches of media. if other media works you have proved this batch is not good for these drives. rare but it happens. as to the setting. after years of pc repairs i have yet to see such. but i do see failed drives daily. and owners that don't want to change the drive but want it fixed. swapping the drive for a demo seems to only make them think we want to sell them a drive. someday i'll find an easier way to get the old drive out and a new working one to them without all the haggling. bob
i agree with robert, on many a cd/dvd drive issue when they don't burn/r/w in some fashion. my question is, &quot;why did you update the firmware in the 1st place&quot;? if it was to correct this problem or did you do it because it was there? if it ain't broke, don't fix it, is a highly wise decision for repair people. in my experience as well, it's far simpler and quicker to replace the problem drive with new or *known* good one in order to proceed. the time and effort spend becomes practical then. understand wera&tear on drives become evident when used over a yr. or alot and newer drives aren't made as good as they used to, simply cheaper. as noted the media itself if using some off brand bulk can be very unforgiving. tada -----willy
