i have what i think is a tough question to answer. is it possible to wirelessly link two networks together? here is the situation: network 1 - 2 desktops & laptop(with wireless) hooked up to a belkin wirelss g router/gateway which is hooked up to comcast internet. network 2 - 2 desktops hooked up to a netgear wireless g router/gateway. i would like the two networks to be able to share internet, files, and be able to play games. the distance between the two networks is at max 50 feet. but there is absolutely no way to wire the networks together as they are across a hallway. if this can not be done, some suggestions on how to make the situation better would be greatly appreciated. also i don't really want to buy wireless cards for the two desktops on network 2. thank you for your help.
that's called a wireless bridge and the only mistake i see is that you may be attempting this with a wifi router. if said router has bridge capability that's fine but imagine if it doesn't. hint. wireless bridge on google.com layout hint: lan -&gt; wireless bridge --- (air) --- wireless bridge -&gt; other lan. bob
speaking of wireless bridges ... i have a situation where we're trying to set up a wireless network in a single room because the architectural geniuses who designed the place put the cable jack in a spot surrounded by two doors so it would be borderline impossible to run ethernet cable to the 2nd workstation. now, the 2nd workstation itself is a desktop machine without any open pci slots so we've been trying to use various usb wireless network adapters that seem to cause all sorts of lovely driver-related lockup issues (to say nothing of severely complicating reloading windows on the 2nd machine). i had been looking at potentially using a wireless bridge (i guess some of them are called &quot;gaming adapters&quot;?) so that the 2nd machine can be connected to the network via its built-in ethernet port (which performed well when previously connected to a wired ethernet network at another location). questions - has anyone tried this configuration? does anyone have a wireless bridge they have had luck with? (there seem to be lots and lots of wireless network adapters but very few wireless bridges.) thanks!
please follow my suggestion of what to type into google.com since i don't duplicate ready web content. bob
i read your post and that is sort of what i was thinking needed to be done. unfortunately the routers are not bridges, so i'll need to buy two bridges it looks like. i was wondering if you have any experience with bridges and know what brands are any good? thanks
linksys, dlink, etc. some routers can be a bridge and that wrt54 series if it doesn't might be coerced if we install other firmware. i'll note where it is so you can see if it has a bridge mode.  bob
