i have the following configuartion: intel pentium iv 2.4 ghz (non-ht) intel d845gebv2 board 512 mb ddr inno3d geforce fx 5500 256 mb, vivo, agp 8x (supporting 4x) yesterday i moved my system upstairs and tried to connect it to the tv and it worked. after about 3-4 hours i experienced some strange hangups (but the card - graphics card) was still working. i removed the card and the hangups discontinued. the graphics card to me was okay. today, when i tried to install the card again in the agp slot. it simply refused to boot up the system. as soon as i start it, it hangs up, no display, no moving forward. no respone whatsoever. then, when i removed the card from the slot, the system works fine (&lt;-- i am on the same system atm). i also noticed one of my ddr was not tight. but i tightened it, and tried to repeat the process. no luck! i also tried to clear cmos by removing the battery/cell. and then still no luck! the card doesnt give any smell. it is still in good condition. no burning sings on it. except that i can't see whats beneath the heat sink. it's the 2nd week since i bought this card. i believe my graphics card is blown? anything to check out?
your motherboard supports the intel d845ge chipset. besides your agp connector you have integrated (on board) intel extreme graphics controller and 'integrated retention mechanism'. it is possible that your graphics switched to the integrated and you need to disable it in the bios for your agp card to operate properly. i haven't checked in a long time, but sort of remember for winxp you keep clicking the f8 key while booting to get safe mode & the bios.
let me write it this way, whenever i try to put the graphics card in the agp slot and try to restart the pc. it just not responds. i can't go the bios, windows or anything if i have this card inserted. as soon as i put the card out, it auto. goes to onboard graphics and works abs. fine. i tried switching the graphics. the only thing i can do in video config. is select agp/pci, frame buffer and aperature size. i switched between agp/pci, failed!. i cleared cmos, nothing again. the card was working tremendous yesterday. what that suggests? graphics card has gone bad?
depending on different computers, many automatically just switch the on board graphics to the new agp card in the bios without doing anything. if you have also tried disabling the on board graphics while the agp card was out and then putting the card in without results, then you may have a defective agp card. agp cards normally come with instructions and a disk. your mobo or computer instructions should also talk about the integrated/and agp enabling/disabling features. sorry i can't help further.
altough, i am going to call for repair/replacement on saturday on warranty. but, connecting to tv matters?. can it blow up a card. i inserted another card in the slot. it worked fine. so i am 98% sure its the card now!
i have played with my comp on a tv a few times... didnt have any problems.
no chance that the card was hit by a static discharge? if everything was properly grounded, sounds like it's just a defective card.
it could be that some specific driver files for the card have become corrupted. i seem to remember something like that happening to a friend of mine, however, i can't quite remember how he resolved the issue. probably by removing/replacing the corrupted driver files and then re-installing the card. i also seem to remember something about video card and monitor conflicts...but in that case i don't think the card would've worked at all.
