i'm looking for the right approach on adding some devices to my home network. i have a dual band netgear wndr3700 router running both g and n. that router is downstairs but my son has his laptop, xbox and new desktop in his bedroom with no wired ethernet. at first i was just going to buy a wireless n adaptor for his desktop but then thought we'd be better off with a wireless access point and then connect each of his three devices to it with gigabit ethernet. does that seem like the right solution? if so what access points support n and gigbit ethernet? if that is not viable then which netgear wireless adaptor will give the best performance? seems like a pci card will give better performance than a usb adaptor? thanks.
after some research i figured what i'm looking for is a wireless bridge. i'd prefer a netgear bridge because intuitively i feel like it will just &quot;work better&quot; than another brand with my netgear wireless router. however, the netgear wn2000rpt is only single band n and 100mb ethernet while the linksys wet610n and the d-link dap-1522 are both dual band n and 1gb ethernet. having 1gb ethernet is preferable so i can blast files between the two computers connected to the bridge. which do you think is a better solution? any ideas welcome. thanks.
i am going to assume you are running g on 2.4 and n on 5 on your dual band router. although you can set the 2.4 to g and n it will not really run both at the same time. that is part of the reason to run 2 radios and separate the n and g. although you can run 2 band on only n if all your equipment supports it. your best bet is to get rid of all your g stuff or make sure all your equipment that is going to run n can run at 5g which almost always means it is dual band. be careful what you buy a bridge is just that it converts the ethernet port to wireless and allows it to connect to another router. they in general do not allow wireless client pc to connect to them. you could place a second router behind. there are things called wireless extenders that are wireless in and out. they tend to be a challenge to setup because of all the radio bands and wpa keys. if you are transferring wireless to wireless do not expect any great performance. having a gig port does not mean a lot when you look at n running 300m. the 300m number is some lab thing that nobody gets. then if both machines are on the same frequency the 300m is divided by 2 since the it is shared so you are down to 150m. even then it is nowhere close to 150m. the only way to get wireless to wireless speed is to transfer one machine on 5g and another on 2.4 and then in a lab you might get 300m. gig ports are mostly just marketing garbage on consumer routers. even if you go ethernet to ethernet with cable you will get nowhere near 1g. you have to use a feature called jumbo frames to make it work which is not supported on most consumer routers. also the gig port in most pc's is built into the chipsets and have a limit of 400m. you need a motherboard than is designed with a port to really run gig and these are mostly used for servers.
