dell inspiron 6000 laptop, windows xp home, been using a linksys wrt54gs router with speed booster for a little less than a year. also have a dell pc wired into the router. that connection is for the most part consistent, yet a power cycle must go down a few times a week. but the real issue is my laptop. i used to have a very consistent and fast connection throughout my home. most importantly, my bedroom which is a floor above the router. lately, all has become hell. i have a very inconsistent connection with my laptop. and now, i either get no connection in my bedroom, or an extremely weak signal. trying to upgrade the firmware (which has been a headache in itself). i've read a ton lately on how this specific model tends to be a terrible router. any suggestions? on the verge of picking up a dlink 655 extreme gigabit n router, even though my laptop runs on a g network. please help! i'm tired of not having consistent internet! especially in my bedroom!!!
is it setup per our forum sticky?
maybe try this page.  i've got the very same router as you on xp pro with one other desktop and a dell inspiron 1100. i've had no problems with this router for the past 6 months, and no problems upgrading the firmware. it could also be the network adapter in your laptop ----- not the router. i wish i had an answer for you.
you'll discover it's one very nice router.
it is set up per the sticky. i tried that link zmark provided. i downloaded the easylink firmware tool. to upgrade the firmware, i was prompted to plug the ethernet cable (from the back of my wired computer) into the laptop itself, with the other end already in &quot;port 1&quot;. well, the router never recognized the ethernet cable in port 1, so when i clicked to proceed forward, the router was not recognized, nothing happened, and i have the same problem. i vaguely remember now when i first got the router, i went through the necessary steps with the router and the pc, did everything fine. then i just started up my laptop, it recognized the network created on my pc, and i just used the internet on my laptop that way. however i have always received the following message when starting up my laptop: &quot;duplicate name exists on the network&quot;. i usually just x out of it, and proceed forward. so my question is, did the actions listed above create my current problem? why isn't my router recognizing the ethernet cable plugged into it from the laptop? also, is there any way to test if the issues stems with my network adapter in my laptop???
that the machine you tried to update from likely had it's wifi link enabled at that time. ps. if the firmware is out of date then it's not setup per the forum sticky. this model router is well known to have issues corrected by updating the firmware.
so what should i do? i tried to update my firmware, and i failed. how can i check to see if the network adapter in my laptop is the issue? why am i getting the &quot;duplicate name message&quot;? and what does it mean? help!!!!
doesn't the dell control the wireless card using the fn+f2 button? i'm sorry to ask this but do you know your laptop features or where to find them? bob
i've never had to deal with whether my network adapter was an issue, so no, i didn't know of the fn+f2 function. i'm wondering if i made a mistake adding my laptop to my network, hence the &quot;duplicate name on the network&quot; message i always get at start up. my internet connection is so inconsistent with my laptop. can anyone give me a step by step understanding of figuring out what the problem is (whether it be my network adapter, router, etc). any words on my inability to have my router recognized by my laptop via an ethernet cable?
there are support people available to come in and set it up for you. given you didn't know your own laptop is a sign. i'm sorry if this offends you in any way but unless you dive in you may have to call in the troops for this sort of work. -&gt; i agree the makers blew it big time here. this is far more complicated than it needs to be. bob
i don't think the fact that i didn't know how to turn on/off my network adapter is a sign i don't know my laptop. it's just a part of my computer i've never had to deal with before (network adapter). i'm confident the problem is the router. it's just so inconsistent with my laptop. i keep having my signal dropped, and it simply won't connect in areas of my house where previously it always had a strong connection. i just put in my order for a dlink 655 xtreme n gigabit router. here's to hoping that will solve my issues. at the very least, it should help me figure out what the real issue is.
to replace a router before you got it updated since new routers may come with outdated firmware but new issues so we get to repeat the same issues. as to not knowing your laptop, a reply above noted the key combo so you should have used that to get the task done. bob
i tried to update the firmware and wasn't able to (i stated this before in posts). i wouldn't call that sad. i tried your suggestions and it didn't work. so now i'm trying something else. i understand your point, but again i'm confident the problem lies with the linksys router itself. especially after it was working for quite some time. plus, with all my online research regarding my current router, there have been a ton of user complaints in having many issues like i have had with this specific model. lastly, i don't see where the key combo you mentioned again was stated by a previous post. regardless, all that key combo did was turn the network adapter on and off, not really any help.
what program are you using to connect to the internet? intel proset wireless? if so, what version? if it's version 11, there are problems with it staying connected. i had to go back to version 10. download it from here  set a system restore point. go to control panel and remove intel proset wireless. restart your computer. install the file that was downloaded. now connect and what happens? are you staying connected? rick
i'm using intel proset wireless version 9. thoughts?
