hi there, i wanto to upgrade my ram memory in my laptop. i own sony vaio eb. now i am running on 2x 2 gb ddr3 1066 mhz and want to upgrade to 2x4 gb [8 gb ram]. laptop model number: sony vaio vpceb3s1e/bq black processor: intel core i5 460mm, 2,53 ghz 3 mb l3 cache 2 cores, 4 threads intel turbo boost 2,8 ghz max tdp: 35 w i run win 7 can you give my advices about brands or models of ram memorys which i should consider to buy? can you give me some tips for good online shops?[i am from europe - shipping*] thanks.
be sure you're laptop supports that sticks and that amount of ram. i didn't check. so first visit  and enter the data of your laptop for advice about what it can have and what type you need. i didn't do it for you. of course, 8 gb only makes sense if you have a 64-bit os. with a 32-bit os the top 4 gb won't be used at all. i can't give advice about makers and shops. i've bought extra memory 2 times. the first time at our local variant of craigslist, the second time in a local computer shop. but that's not what you're looking for, i assume. kees
i expect little payback on this upgrade. it certainly won't cure any complaints about gaming or video speed. let's hope this laptop has the 64 bit os. bob
thank you kees for your advice. i checked out crucial.com . great site for these kind of things. i am already deciding about two types of memory. they are prety the same but they differ with &quot;speed&quot; [first one pc3-8500 ; second one pc3-1060] and in frequency [first one 1066 and second one 1333]. does these parameters matter a lot? can i say, higher the better? the price si same to the last cent. thanks for your help. oh btw, my os is win 7, 64bit
i am going to use that extra ram in cg aplications [computer graphic]. i want to speed up my manipulating and rotation in viewport. number of polygons in my projects really increased since last semester, and it lags in big scenes. do you think that extra memory i want to buy can help me in this kind of issue? i think it will do some better performence, but if it is worth of 100 euros. what do you think? my os is 64bit.
the functions you noted are, in my experience governed by the speed of the gpu. bob
you should install the memory with maximum speed you can get for you laptop. that will make a big difference in your computer speed. make sure you install identical pairs, which means same brand with same frequency. ram does not affect graphics that much but it makes difference. thanks macwin technology
