hi i have a new (to me) 6 months old computer. it was built by a friend of a friend. it has a asus mainboard and as i say the main drive shows as removable hardware. it works fine i'm just worried i accidentally hit remove device! would i then be in loads of trouble trying to start my pc.also i would like to know why it shows like this. many thanks j j
look in device manager&gt; harddrive&gt; properties&gt; policies. if there two choices available there try opimize for performance. this may make the drive disappear from the tray. bob
hi bob, thanks for your answer. i have checked as you suggested and it is already set to &quot;optimize for performance&quot; so no good. but is this a thing with sata drives? should i just ignore it? thanks jj
i won't define what those are since you can research such but since it can be so, it could be removable. look around for any checkbox with the word &quot;removeable&quot; for that drive. bob ps. not an issue so far, just annoying to some.
windows will not install on a device that it thinks is removeable. (it can be fooled into doing so, but then i would question the legality of the install. you typically have to install it onto a fixed drive then clone that onto a removeable drive.)
i had hoped that simple research about esata would be fine here. this is a new area and predates xp so xp could label it as removable. this is not a registry error. it's an option. bob
wow complicated eh! i will just put up with it and be careful not click on &quot;remove hardware&quot; for that drive. thanks everybody though.
your choice here. there is no bug, it's just something that is related to the new sata interface and you can fix it if you want. bob
thanks, think i'm just going to leave it alone. j j
no version of windows will install (from official media) on a device that windows detects is removeable. it matters not if it's usb or firewire or esata or scsi hot-plug. if windows detects the device is removeable it will not install to it. that's an immutable fact. so the install could have been done to a fixed device and then somehow migrated to the removeable device. that's why i question the legality of the install. also, hklm\system\currentcontrolset\enum registry entries contain device descriptors which identify the characteristics of a drive. this is done so drive capabilities don't have to be fully re-enumerated when booting. an error (or manipulation) in the registry can make a fixed drive appear to be removeable. copying an install from one drive to another can have the same effect.
hi i think i got what you are saying i'm not knowledgeable about computing but i have looked inside the pc and it is all connected up in the normal way and it is a fixed hard drive the os (xp pro) is legal and updates via microsoft. but if as you say a copy has been copied from one drive to another it's still a hard drive and not removable. please forgive me if i'm sounding stupid to you but i am in the land of fog,mud and whats that burning smell at the moment, but many thanks for your responses. j j
that here we have windows installed and the boot drive is marked removable as it's in the tray. i've seen this often with xp, sata connected drives and windows installs just fine. vista seems to understand sata much better and will not mark the boot drive as removable. after a few hundred installs you just gotta wonder what is immutable and what is not. bob
thanks for your comments bob i'm just going to leave all alone. many thanks jj
