i've enjoyed a wireless network for some time. after hurricane charlie, things got messed up and i'm in the process of networking a different computer to my host (winxp). the guest computer operating system is win mn. i access the internet through cable modem and use a linksys wireless router. i've played with this for days. i've unplugged everything, redone it and checked all of the addresses etc., over and over. i used to get 100% signal between the pcs and now the best i can get is 67%. the guest computer won't even log on to the internet. i'm sure i'm overlooking some simple thing but my mind is now fried! can you suggest what i might have missed? thank you. valerie
i can't tell what parts you've replaced. some spend months playing with such and in the end a new wifi card or router fixes it. bob
hi bob, i replaced the guest (win mn.) computer only. i should tell you that a few days ago, i had the system working fine on these same two same computers with a 100% signal. i then decided to reformat the hard drive on the guest computer. i did that and then replaced the software etc. it tells me that i'm getting a 67% signal but won't log on to the internet. valerie
that's a little clearer. here's what i see happen daily. people format a drive and install &quot;windows&quot;. what they didn't know is that drivers for the motherboard, usb and other items are not installed for them or don't exist on the microsoft cd. it's become a bad problem in that years ago we were expected to know this. today, newer owners are handed working machines and not instructed on how to install an os. bob
this is a compaq though and i used the recover disk to put it back to it's original factory condition. does you opinion still apply and if so, what do i do? valerie
there are more items at play here. there can be updates after the cd was made. i will not know what the machine needs and owners often forget. when faced with these setups, we always bring spare routers and wifi client parts. bob
