computer: intel p4 3.00ghz ram : 1 gig os : windows 2k , service pack 4 drives : c, memorex 52x24x52, liteon sohw-1673s usb since i purchased this drive 1 month ago i have not been able to burn any dvds from it. however i'm able to read dvd disks without any problems. would someone please help me find out why i'm not able to burn dvds from this drive?
you need a dvd burning program to do this. what dvd burning software have you tried?
hi linkit, i have tried to installed nero express 6, but that did not install. the drive came bundle with the nero cd software. but i have not be successful installing any of the software it came with. what is the best software to use for burning dvds?
nero burning programs are pretty good. what problem do you have with installing it? what version of nero is it supposed to be? what type of dvd discs are you trying to burn? what max speed are the discs? here is a good free program to try until you get nero working:  i usually use nero ultra and cdburnerxp pro. also, there is a firmware update for that drive:
thanks linkit, i really appreciate your help. sorry for responding so late. when i tried to installe nero express 6, the software wants to installed the previous version i have installed which is version 4. i'm afraid if i uninstall the older version, my cd burner may not work anymore. so i did not want to take that chance untill i was sure it all would ok. i'm using ''tevion'' disks...and a generic brand from germany. max speed is 8x. i will try one of these two programs suggested and i will report back to you as to how things are going. thanks g
cdburnerxp pro is free. nero ultra is expensive. i'd try the free software first.
install the newer v. until you ditch the old v.. if nero came with that burner, it is tied to that burner and will only work with said burner.
hello guys, i downloaded cdburnerxp and installed...now the burner is working just fine. thanks linkit for the help..much appreciated. cdburnerxp i will be using it for a while.
he introduced cdburnerxp to me. i like it, too.
that program is a winner. bob
thanks oil_tan for your help. but the dvd burner is working like a charm...
yeah cdburnerxp is nice and it's free. the burner is working fine.
