hi i have just recieved a hp photosmart 2610 printer and i want to connect it to my wireless network. it has and ethernet port so i decided i would connect my ethanet to wireless bridge d-link to the printer and then connect it straight to my home network. i have a belkin router/modem with wep security ect. i also have the hp networking guide and cd rom however all my laptops are vista so it wont work.also once i get it hooked up to the network how do i get it to apear on all my laptops. if any other information is needed just ask. thanks tom
at this point i'd pack it back up and return it before you can't get your money back. next time ask if it works with vista.
sorry i didnt explain quite right i got the printer for free it is a few years old an since then i was able to get the setup wizard to work but still could not get it connected to the internet the main problem i am having is getting the bridge to connect with the router and reconise it as a printer all suggestions are helpful. thanks tom
can be found here . disconnect your printer. please make sure to un-install the printer, then restart the computer before installing the proper drivers. rick
hi i have installed the drivers but i get the message that the printer is not connected to my network. the main problem i am having is getting my wireless bridge to communicate with my wireless router. thanks tom
wep's dead today. i also see you note a bridge. sadly your posts are incomplete so replies fail to get to the answers since you haven't made a good complete post. solve one issue at a time. such as that bridge. to try to solve the printer and the bridge at the same time will usually be too hard. bob
what i want the bridge to do is connect with my wireless router. this is the thing that is giving me the most problems. the bridges instructions are incoplete and unhelpful so mabye you can help me. the bridge is a d-link dwl-g810 and my router is belcon branded. my router was set up with a security key. i fyou need anymore information please ask. thanks for your help tom
i see from it's setup that this is not going to be easy enough for me to solve here. while i have setup these things, unless i was privy to every detail it's too likely what i didn't know had an error. find a local network guru and offer pizza and cherry coke and accolades to get this all working. in closing i used this one -&gt; wgps606 (see google.com) its instructions are no better but since i used to write embedded web servers and routers a long time ago it wasn't all that hard to see what they wanted me to do. bob
thank you very much for your help it is much appreciated. i will explore some other options. thanks again your help is much appreciated! tom
skip trying to get the printer on the bridge. try your pc or laptop and (no offense intended) and their instructions. this one is not easy so don't feel to bad if it takes a few tries.
hi, sorry to bother you again. i tried connecting my bridge into my laptop i found the home page in internet explorer and it will connect to my network but when i get on i can not connect to the internet. what settings hould i check. also should i set up an ap???? does this make the connection easier if so how o i do this thanks tom
on any laptop to disable it's wifi. my hp, acer's have a little button for that. now i use ethernet to the bridge and follow the directions. i'm not privy to what you may have changed on the bridge so let me note that i use the bridge's defaults and only set the ssid and password word to the wifi network i want to connect to. remember not to lock down any ip here. we want to get it to work as a bridge first. good luck. bob
