please let me know what you think... i am ordering the adaptec card to run raid 5 with 4 hdd (ordered 5 in case one dies) [img]  [/img]
my only caveat is that you didn't use a &quot;redundant&quot; power server case. everything else appears ok, too. as for the case, that psu will do, but here too you may want to have a spare psu. now, make darn sure all of this is well cooled, which a server case would have provided and have amble room as well. just check out server cases to get a feel of what i'm suggesting here. i do like 100% you use a true server mtrbd.. tada -----willy
is raid 5 for the os and data fine? i will be installing the os on raid 5 then i will be using windows to partiton a new storage &quot;drive&quot;. is this fine to do??
of the system that supports it ? does the system store only family pics, tax records or is it used for business and earning a living too ? the question is ... what level of redundancy and backup are you looking for ? what if the system was hit by voltage spikes, lightning,flood, tornado, etc., ? raid 5 and having a spare hdd is great but but you may need to think beyond that if you want ensure system availability, data access and continuity of business. vapcmd
the above link should provide an idea of the raid levels on what they do. raid 5 is the robust but still you need the care of a *master backup* to include other back-ups on a regular basis. while raid 5 provides for its own data safety, the world still makes it rough at times, thus backups are more than a good idea. on top of all this the master backup i suggested is for return a working network if a major failure comes about, you can restart again, reloading the basic network and then using whatever other backups to return to some date of last backup., etc.. i mention this only if all else fails, you have something to return to. while i didn't suggested before you may want to look at ms home server 2011 or similar to better handle network demands. while win7 will provide for a decent networking setup it becomes a more stretched use of the os. home server os, provides a ready os to better handle the demands of networking, just a thought to pass on. i also suggest you get your hands on &quot;networking s/w tools&quot; that are capable of networking needs. i mention this just as method to make life easier, though you have to find this out by trail and error what suits you. google away for such tools and there are freebies or low-cost ones. tada -----willy
i use a simple nas and for more speed and a second copy a low power 10 watt netbook. about 20 watts for both. bob
