hello. i have a windows me computer. i was wanting to know how i can more effectively run my computer's memory. we have 256k, and we have used only 12gig of the 60 gig hd. i've gone to configsys, and stopped some unnecessary items from loading up at first. also go to alt-ctrl-del & check for items to shut down if needed. twice a week i go to temp & temp internet folders, and delete everything in there. we had the same problem last year, and i upgraded my memory from 128 to 256. will maxxing out the memory at 512 make a difference? if so, for how long? this computer is getting bad enough to where i'm online, and it'll say &quot;low memory - close a program&quot;. i'm not playing any video games or rendering any heavy graphics. or, it'll reboot on its own! i run my spybot twice a day, and nothing out of the ordinary is going on to affect this that i am aware of. suggestions? if you need more details please let me know. thanks, david
unlikely. however, if this was my machine i'd read and use the optimizing windows article at  as to spybot twice a day, that is a sign that something is amiss. such as a owner that uses nothing but internet explorer which can gather many pests. try firefox. also, use the latest spybot as well as adaware. bob
also, try using the immunize feature of spybot. and try spyware blaster, an affiliate of spybot.
i used me for a bit and soon upgraded to xp, aworld of differance. imo windows me was a real white elephant. you should upgrade if possible.
getting the spyware removers is a good start as others suggested. review again what you want in pgms. to be running and then delete, entirely rather than stopping them. sadly, after doing all this and maybe some other suggestions, it maybe better to start from scratch and reload the os, after a clean format, save all data, etc. you deem necessary. if your system is capable looking into the xp os maybe valid upgrade if only to get beyond the me headaches as its more stable. the only cavet in either case is a memory upgrade, 512mb is great for me and xp, but more mbs for xp is far better. good luck -----willy
