i am writing about my mother's computer. i don't know the specific model number, but i know it's an hp pavilion desktop. she has the in-home warranty with best buy/the geek squad. well, her internet went out, and the geek squad determined that her network card is bad and needs to be replaced. of course, they ordered the wrong part and he's coming back this saturday to replace the network card. my mom asked if there was any way to access the internet in the mean time, and he told her to purchase a usb wireless adapter for that purpose. well, she purchased one, i attempted to install it, but we are not having any luck. my question is: is it possible for this usb wireless adapter to create an internet connection if her network card is not working properly? i'm under the impression that this adapter is to connect a computer to an already existing wireless network, not to create an internet connection on one computer where no internet connection is available. i'm very confused. we are only talking about one computer; there is no network, no laptop, no other desktop, etc. we have a linksys router that we used years ago to set up a network when i had a laptop and still lived at home. they have a new computer now, and the router is not hooked up. is there any way the router can be used to access the internet? can someone please help me understand? thanks!
you had a cable/dls modem and connected a wireless capable router to it, the usb wireless adapter would be of use to you.
she has a cable modem, and i have it hooked to the wireless capable linksys router, but the router is not picking anything up, thus the adapter is not either. i don't understand how the two can create an internet connection. on the router, everything is lighting up that should except the &quot;internet&quot; part. well, that's obviously because she has no internet connection due to a bad network card. the adapter installed just like the book said it should, but it's still not creating an internet connection like we were told it would. am i overthinking this thing or what?
the wireless feature may be disabled on the router. you will need to login to the router's admin page and look over the settings. visit the networking and wireless forum to read the forum sticky. it's the one at the top. set up your router according to its instructions.
