hi guys, i have a western digital mybook 500gb harddrve which i mainly use to back up my music, videos and pictures. i connect it to my sony vgn-s2xp which runs win xp. recently it started acting up, not being recognised from time to time, but unplugging it and plugging it back would usually do the trick. i assumed that my usb ports on my laptop were just loose, which also sounded right for the &quot;disconnect&quot; happening whenever i was transferring lots of data from my harddrive back to my laptop. the harddrive would not be recognised anymore an dthe data transfer would be stopped. whenever it disconnected i needed a few tries to get it live again, and sometimes the harddrive was recognised but whenever i clicked on it, i got a message asking me to reformat it as its not the right format. (??) anyways, i was due to get a new machine anyway (was longing for a desktop) so got a sony tp1 last week (which runs on vista). when i connected the harddrive vista crashed. i then tried to connect the harddrive back to my laptop bt it keeps asking me to format the harddrive (if it actually recognises the harddrive). 2 questions: 1) i want to save my music collection (and myself from ripping all of it all over again, which took me months) and wondered if there is anything i can do to retrieve the data. i can't even access the directory in dos mode. 2) i only recently had the same problem with another 80gb harddrive of mine, which was about three years old so i assumed it was normal wear and tear. this mybook harddrive is less than 4 months old, so very strange. could it be some virus causing that? i ran antivirus and spywareblaster on it and nothing came up for it. how can i avoid it again next time? the harddrive stands around on a table most of the time, its not anywhere where it would be moved a lot, or could overheat. btw, i did read the comments about not using an external harddrive as the only backup. i never had any problems until recently but will avoid that in future. any help is appreciated. thanks. shareque
putting the disk in another enclosure and see if it behaves as you expect. but as you still have warranty on it, it night be better to have it done by the shop where you bought it. they won't like if you come with it in parts and say it doesn't work anymore. hope this helps. kees
was the only location for the data ? vapcmd
as my music collection was over 60gb, and i only had 80 gb disc space on my laptop it just seemed a waste to keep it all on the laptop. i unfortunately formatted my 40gb ipod just recently and was able to retrieve only 20gb worth of music from it. so anything i can do to get the data back? any program? last time this happened with my old harddrive i ended up paying 200 ($400) to retrieve the data. i dont want to do this all over again. i am happy to pay for an effective program and be able to use it if this ever happens again. also, anyone has an answer why this keeps happening? could it be a virus which creates bad clusters?
it depends on the cause of the trouble. if it's a hardware issue it's unlikely any recovery program will salvage your data, because it just can't access the disk. if it's just the data being a little bit damaged, it might work. a program to try:  hope this helps. kees
because hard disks fail. it's not a matter of if they will but when they will. often it takes costly events to get some to learn about backup. if you have one copy of something on a hard disk, then it's likely to go missing (someday.) in your case i would buy a new usb external drive case and move the drive over and hope it comes back. that 400 buck recovery fee was a bargain, but wouldn't a set of dvdrw (10?) hold what you can't lose for 20 bucks? bob
this zar recovery program was great. i did not buy the full version but used the free trial one. i think its a great item and i'll proably spend the money for it anyway. it ran for like 3 days and required a few clicks in between as well, but after itw as done verifying the data, my harddrive was recognised again and i was able to retrieve some data. i lost some data, which is unreadable now, but lets say 75% of the data is there, which is great news! can only recommend that link. thanks mate. helped a lot!!!
