ordered a giga-byte ga-ma78gm-sh2 rev 1 motherboard from ewiz. also a kit of kingston hyperx memory. arrived and i hooked to a logisys 575w psu, both the 24 pin and the cpu's 4pin. cpu installed is amd 64x2 athlon 4200, using hsf from &quot;amd processor in a box&quot;. memory is khx6400d2llk2/2g which datasheet says initially boots by spd to 1.8v at 667mhz cl5 and then can be adjusted later in bios to overclock to 2.0v at 800mhz cl4. has onboard video. benchtest is with cpu/hsf, memory both sticks, psu hooked to 24 and 4 pin plugs on mobo, keyboard to ps/2, monitor to onboard vga at rear of mobo. cpu fan runs, psu fans run, dc meter shows voltage at drive plugs ok, even added case fan to other mobo plug works, but no vga. number lock key on keyboard can't be turned off. file rma with ewiz and still waiting for a number from them. meanwhile the same day order cheap golden ram pc5300 cl5 ddr2 memory from geeks along with a cheap 8mb vga card for pci slot. it arrives and i test the new memory on the mobo and still no vga from onboard plug. i add in the pci card and short cmos pins again as between each new test, hook to vga plug on card and no video. do couple restarts that way, no video. each time fans on psu and cpu run fine, and the power pins will do a 4 second delay and shutdown too, but no video and not able to turn off number lock on keyboard at any time. my opinion is the board is toast, no good, maybe was already rma'ed to them from someone who burnt or screwed the bios trying to update it since there are newer updates for the bios. any other opinions or thoughts on what i can try before i get an rma number from ewiz (assuming i do after my reminder note i sent them today)?
in or out of case? i perform first boot out of case. my acid test is to pull the memory. this should produce no memory beep code. if not reseat cpu - re-test - if no joy then your mb is dead. if system responds - to test memory slots re-test w/ 1 stick of memory in each memory slot. then with the other memory, tho here you only need to test once. bill luck
yep, pulled the cpu and checked to be absolutely sure it was in correctly which with the guides is sort of hard to miss. i've tried it with no memory, 1 stick, 2 stick. i've tried it with cpu fan unplugged just to see if it would give a beep error since many mobos do now for that. seems controller chips work on the mobo, but nothing from bios is, like the bios is dead. i sent in another rma request with mention of the earlier filing for one.
thanks for the follow up. bill
anytime i have trouble posting i would try it again but with only 1 stick of ram in it and if it post i would then down load the newest drivers for the mother board and all the chip sets on the board and windows updates and check for a new bios update as this mother board and chips set are new then if everything worked i would install all the memory and then run memtest86 to see if all the sticks were good hope this helps good luck and take care chuck btw are you talking about the giga byte ga-m780gm-sh2 ? or did you write this down right giga-byte ga-ma78gm-sh2 rev 1 motherboard as the 780 is the new one?
it's the 780g chip version, and update from the 690g version. have an rma number i had to obtain by phone since for some reason their emails about it, if sent, aren't reaching me, although strangely others they sent earlier did. hoping i don't mail this back for an exchange and never hear from them again after doing so. i'll let this thread know the resolution of it.
seems there may be a problem with 780g type motherboards.   i've sent some questions to gigabyte, hoping for an answer soon. i'm wondering if the motherboard needs mounting in the case so that can provide a grounding plane for it. the screw points have contacts at them, and wondering if maybe those need the screws to there to complete some of the circuits. if so that would be a first to me, but about ready to entertain any such strange ideas. same test setup, same problem. this time i bench tested it on top of it's own box. hooked onboard vga to monitor, plugged in a ps/2 standard keyboard, installed athlon 64x2 4200 using 65w power with it's approved hsf plugged to motherboard. put in one stick of memory in slot 1. hooked up 575w psu to both the 24 pin and the 4 pin plugs on mobo. short across the power pins and psu turns on, cpu's fan runs and still no post, no video to the monitor. i've tried a pci card for video, swapped memory chips (different speed and maker!). only thing i've not changed between both boards was trying a different cpu. i've shorted the cmos pins, i even removed the battery and shorted across those terminals for awhile to make sure cmos chip would reset the bios. nothing seems to work. there's never been any heat detected from the cpu area, but then it's not been accessed either since it won't post. i wanted this board for the solid capacitors, but right now i'd welcome the riskier electrolytic main capacitors just to have a motherboard that will benchtest easy and provide the gaming experience i know my youngest would appreciate. right now i'm facing getting a different motherboard (probably a biostar) that will take the memory and processor i have and then mess around with gigabyte on getting something that works, since i've already done an rma with the vendor and not anxious to go that route again. daughter's birthday is in a month and i want to finish it up now, not be left hanging on it till then.
go over the jumpers if any and then setup just... cardboard (no case is needed in some thousands of times doing this), the motherboard, the psu, the speaker and the cpu+hsf. no other parts!!! we go for beeps. no beeps and we are looking at the bad or badly configured parts. bob
that's basically it, except since i was looking for boot display to monitor i had that hooked up to the onboard vga and a stick of memory in it. i didn't get any beeps of any sort on the first motherboard. of course i was hoping to get at least one, indicating all was well. i didn't try the speaker yesterday on the other motherboard, but will, however i suspect i still won't get any beeps. in fact i'll pull the known good speaker off one of my other systems to use instead, just to be sure. i'd hate to think the vendor is swapping rma boards between those who sent them in, i'd hope that's not the case, but seems strange i would get two &quot;new&quot; boards that were doa. this is unusual for me, not had two boards in a row of same make act doa.
knowing all parts other than the cpu had been tested and ok, and absolutely no beeps, ever, i pulled the cpu again and put it under the big magnifying glass. let me say i hate these am2 and 939 pin processors, too many pins in too small a space and too thin. it makes you appreciate the socket a cpu's much better. two pins were bent on the cpu, one near the marked corner a row back both ways and one on the exact opposite corner. those pins are so close and so small i could barely see them even with my reading glasses and looking through the glass, but did manage to try some different size safety pins till i found one that would fit exactly between the pins width and was able to &quot;comb&quot; the 2 bent pins back up fairly decent. it was enough to get them all into the socket ok with some very gentle wiggle action. did the post and boot up fine now to my thumbdrive, even with both sticks of the kingston hyperx memory installed (2 g's total). even with a magnifier i almost didn't see that second pin that was bent, and the first worst bent one wasn't that easy to find either. that's after sighting down the rows from both sides, and it was the wrong glint of light that helped me find it. i don't know if i bent them the first install, or if it was damaged in shipping. at least it's done and i can move on from it.
the method i use (beeps) is to reduce the parts to as few as possible. it's tough enough with few parts but having all the system parts installed makes it nearly impossible to find the cause. bob
i was expecting to hear the &quot;siren&quot; type of beeps if the cpu had a problem instead of hearing nothing. when you mentioned hearing nothing along with my previous testing of other items, i realized it almost certainly had to be a processor problem. what's your opinion on amd's using such weak pins on these 939 pin processors? they are so close together though i don't think they could make them too much thicker and still have a socket that could take them. are you finding them difficult to get properly installed? the 754 and down have never presented any problem for installation to me. i'd rather have these newer processors mounted on a circuit board with bigger, stronger pins to fit in a bigger socket. if they did that they could still go super nano on the processor itself but make it easier for those who install them.
there is no need for strong pins on packages. they need to use the least amount of material as they can to compete. bob
