hello! i am looking to purchase a dvd rom/burner for my dell dimension 2400 desktop (running windows xp). it came with a cd burner and cd player but not a dvd rom. i have googled my fingers to the bone and have &quot;chatted with&quot; dell support to find out what dvd burner would be compatible with my system (i really want to install an internal one) to no avail. this is strictly to play pc games but because the burners are so reasonable on newegg.com, i thought i would get a burner instead of just a player. thank you in advance and sorry for the novel!
these run about 30 bucks and as you can see at  it shows 2 cd or dvd drives in the picture. you'll remove one of those, set the jumper of the new drive to match the old drive (or research ide jumper settings on google) then put it back together. dell.com has documentation on the disassembly so i won't write about that. bob
here's one:
i installed a dvd burner in a friends 2400 awhile ago and just went to circuit city and picked up a hp brand burner for less than $50.00. installed it and it has been working good for her. dell told her that only a dell burner would work, thats not true. the only problem i had was one screw was just a hair off, but it does fit. just set both drives to cs. it came with nero 7 if i remember right.
wow, i was expecting a vague answer and you pointed me to the exact product (hopefully!) that i need. cannot beat a $21.00 price tag, either. thank you very much, ramarc and thank you to the other posters who responded as well. indiana jones pc-dvd game here i come!
thank you for that website. i am going to save it when it comes time to install the dvd burner. i am getting better at the nuts and bolts of the system after upgrading memory and graphics card this year. thank you again!
mopscare42. all good advice here. i am going with the cheaper version above. cross your fingers for me! thank you again.
it was on sale (beats the old 95 buck price) and i get lightscribe too.
this may be a little off subject, but do those lightscribe discs ever go bad? the reason i asks is because i have some memorex dvds that are about 3 years old and i can only get about 3 out of 10 to burn lightscribe. also, should one store the lightscribe discs like i do my photo paper and not let any direct light get to them?. thanks wayne
you can ask google that but my well cared for cdr don't go bad after 5 years so far. bob
i think i will just buy some new lightscribe discs and keep them in a nice dark place. wayne
and it works (well, i played a dvd rom game on it but haven't burned anything yet) great! it was perfect for my system. thank you all again. it was certainly a new experience replacing a cd player with a dvd burner. i'm learning all kinds of things these days. funny thing is, i was a little hesitant about buying an off-brand, but when i pulled the cd player out of my dell, it was a lite-on model as well!
