hi, i have a dell dimension 4600 purchaed 1 1/2 years ago. about 2-3 weeks ago, i installsed a 200 gb maxtor 7200 ata 133 in the machine in addition to the 40gb original drive. a week later, the system acted funny by making a sound (hd) and giving me the follwoing message: primary drive 0 not found, strike the f1 key to continue, f2 key to run the setup utility. the following morning the system worked fine. a couple of days ago it came up with the message but it did not work in the morning. i moved the controller wires around but no luck. any idea how i can get my machine working? at this time i will be happy with having access to my original drive!! thanks tinman6g
i am also a dell owner and recently installed an ide in addition to my serial ata. i began receiving a similar error but only after powering off the machine. a restart would go cleanly so it appeared sporadic. you will probably be able to duplicate this after a complete shutdown. anyway, i will make a couple assumptions. 1) you are installing a serial ata in addition to your primary ide hard drive. here is how i believe i resolved my issue. go into bios - press f2 for setup. serial ata will probably say say yes - press the space bar and turn it off. you should see the bios request status for two ata drives. under your serial ata drive 1 - set it to auto ( so that it will autodetect on bootup.) after rebooting, you should get a message 'new hardware found' shutdown and reboot the system. your f1/f2 to continue error should go away because you are forcing your system to recognize the hard drive in question and not confuse it with other. if this still doesn't work, a slightly riskier steup would be to set your primary ide drive in bios to auto and make sure all other ide drives (primary/secondary) are set to off. here is a link from western digital to look at for checking your jumper settings on your primary ide drive.  best wishes on resolving this. i hope i helped a little. michael
i had this problem. my research leads me to believe it is a common problem take a look at this link:  i rang these guys and they told me it is normally one of 2 things, if it is clicking or making a 'musical' tone it is mechanical fault, if it is quiet then it is most likely a firmware fault. no cheap way of fixing them unfortunately!! i don't know what firmware is exctly in relation to a hard disk drive but there you go!
