i got xp pro cd via an auction, but no product key. if buying an coa license will that overcome the key requirement? i'm getting conflicting info and wondering if to be legit, the coa license is in fact just another key or just adding xp pro to another computer using the orginal key. tia -----willy
i will willingly let a person have a copy of my xp cd because it's useless without a proper activation code. i will not share my code and i registered mine to prevent theft of that code. so your answer will be found when you activate your xp. you won't have any choice in the matter as xp will cease to function in 28 days after the install. given all this headache, i wonder if you will save any money when the dust settles and the aspirin bottle is empty. you can report a pirate if you get ripped off to piracy@microsoft.com bob
i got the xp pro from the goodwill, i thought they're trying to pull a fast one. it appears to be an oem xp release. i can buy another xp pro oem release or the coa license which is &quot;suppose&quot; to be allowable to add xp to another system, but as i said before, i didn't get an answer to my question as i see it. basically, i would save $ if coa but hassles i deal with all the time, its just be my hassle. it appears, i leaning to another oem purchase and use the auctioned cd as toolbox backup for files or whatnots. &quot;sigh&quot; thanks robert -----willy
i will not enter into any debate about any topical subject about activation. my only input to you is to proceed with care on oem versions since others have felt burnt over patches they can't get from microsoft or if the oem version locks onto the machine its installed on and won't budge to the next machine. since its an oem version, microsoft is not your supplier and will not help you move the license to another machine. again, contain any ire and spit over this since i'm only trying to share that a few have been burnt. be sure your oem supplier will supply support in patches that you can't download. bob
you were illegally sold software, you should go back to the seller and get your money back, they effective stole it from you by selling you a worthless cd.
this was brought at an auction, &quot;as is&quot; so the buyer beware always applies. the sticker is probably stuck on some parted system somewhere. these are the chances one takes at such affairs, but brother you can come out on top more often than not. i rarely ever get loaded systems, but s/w is sometimes part of a lot or load as it were, you never know what you get. in this case, i went for the xp as the hd i assumed(wrongly) would have the key, nope! -----willy
