after getting a few missing dll file messages, my hard drive - only a year old - died. i decided to replace it with a 300gb ide drive that i've been using as a second back up. though the computer (dell inspirion 8200) can see it in set up, windows sees nothing, or a 130 gb drive which it apparently can do nothing with, whether we give into its requests to repartition or not. we have tried moving the pin setting from master to cable select on the back of the drive, and plugging in to different ports and cables, but it's always the same. out of three drives we put in to test it, only one was visible as itself - and it was installed with 64 bit (which my husband has been playing around with), which of course it said it couldn't handle. when i put the 300gb in an external drive box to look at it again from my laptop, it was unreadable. i had backed it all up, but i'm feeling baffled. i've heard of strange things happening when power sources begin to go, but i don't know if this is it. the startup and getting into set up takes forever, and it's a little flakey once there. anyone have any ideas about what could be going on? many thanks, a
once you get xp sp1 installed, the 300gb drive will be fine if your machine has a proper bios. bob
do you know why the start up (dell first screen) is so slow - the bar at the bottom that usually shows progress is all white and remains so the whole time. we thought that the computer was frozen when we pressed f2, but it is simply very very slow. any ideas about that?
nothing in your post reveals why that would be so. bob
had to reformat the drive on another computer. it appears to degrade any drive that is put in so that eventually it won't even offer to partition it. i wonder if there is something wrong with the processor or mother board, as i did have some problems with dll files degrading on my a previous hard drive. i had had three viruses and a worm on that one at one time, and after i cleaned up the drive, it started with dll messages, so i just assumed they were the culprit. but perhaps there is something more sinister lurking in my computer.
if i had to format a drive in another machine this tells me that something is sorely busted. so far the clue to what isn't revealed. your posts seem to ignore the forum note (those words in red.) your choice here. bob
exactly what pc ...make/mfg, series and model number are you talking about. dell inspirion 8200 ...is a laptop. not aware of any 2.5&quot; 300gb hdd available for a laptop. so please double check your post and correct as appropriate. vapcmd
many thanks for your input. i'm sorry but i'm new here, and thought i had covered it all in the first post. but i got the name wrong - it's a dell dimension 8200 running windows xp home ed with pentium 4 at 2.24 ghz with 200gb hd. we got it running again, but had to format the drive on another machine, and are a bit worried about it losing dll files again. we swapped the power supply, and are planning to change the battery. i still have no idea if a low battery or failing power supply could damage dll files? neither one appeared to be defective or low, but are changing them anyway. if you have any other ideas about what could be going on, i'd appreciate them.
it seem to me you lack some experience i did have problem with dlls. but that was becouse i did deleted it when i got my first pc also make sure you get an ativirus ans a firewall there are some good free software around if you google it .playing games online will infest your pc with trojans . faronics.ca sells a program named ( deep freeze)to freeze up the hard drive ,once the hard drive is frozen you can delete whatever you like and as soon you reboot the pc everything will be there ,i bought it and cost only $40.00 canadian .you can try it for 30 day free this is the site for, deep freeze
with today's wide variety of pests and most unaware about current antivirus, firewall, spyware scans and that using another browser than ie helps, it's all too common for people to have software issues. then we have those p2p file sharing users and you get a picture that loss is going to happen. there is not a clear picture of what's causing your issue or why you had to format it elsewhere. that's a big clue and points to either a real problem or just some procedural oversight that you cured by formatting elsewhere. as long as it's working and you have armed yourself to the eyeballs with the protections and are not a p2p user it's likely it will be fine. bob
yes, i use mozilla and have the latest norton 2005 firewall and virus, have webroot and do weekly scans. as we reinstall everything, i will use norton 2007, that includes all three in one package. i don't think my internet usage is especially risky - mostly news sites, online shopping from well-known vendors, location of addresses on mapquest. occasionally i use it for reference, such as wikipedia and college sites, but i think only one of those searches brought me to a sex site (apparently they aren't too interested in the shakespeare crowd yet), but i went back to what i was doing. if my husband and i share files, we use skype to send it to each other - we are not networked. my husband says he wants to make a boot floppy, as the computer seems to be caught in a loop when windows tries to begin initialize its rudamentary starting programs. he says it doesn't appear to know where to put them. and sadly, the 300gb drive that we tried to use, though visibile when plugged in on any computer, is still not working or able to reformat. we'll try again another way. computer problems always come in clusters. sigh. i'm not experienced enough to really know what that means in terms of the computer's failure, but feel that something is degrading gradually - the last time this happened it did recognize other drives. my hope is that replacing the battery will do it. (well, i can hope, can't i?) many thanks for your advice. adrienne
ps....if you're on your original cmos battery, you're over due for a cmos battery replacement.
1. xp is installed but no sp1/sp2. usb 2.0 support appeared in sp1. support for drives over 127gb were added in sp1 and both items improved in sp2. 2. motherboard drivers are often overlooked and may cause odd issues since microsoft doesn't have such on their cds. bob
the bios version: pheonix rour bios plus version 1.10 a03
link for &quot;a09&quot; (link below). as always make sure this is the one for your make/model pc.  re cmos battery .... anywhere between 2-4 years...it retains date/time info, hw setting...esp about your hard disk drive settings. often when a system loses hdd settings ... system won't boot. vapcmd
