past few months my computer has been freezing and honestly i dont know why. at first i thought it was a virus or malware, scanned and scanned again. nothing came up, so i tried to reinstall windows. that didnt work still froze. then my psu went, thought maybe thats why it was freezing because it was old.then i thought maybe there is a virus but i need to really clean it out, so i got a hd scrubber, that didnt work. this machine is old, could this be because of its age?could the motherboard be shorting out? or the processor? its about 5 years id say. its a : amd athlon 2700 processor 120 gb hdd 2gb ram win xp pro 400w psu
could be several things including heat build up, make sure your fans, especially cpu are functional. do you get any beep tone errors prior or during freeze up? many times, depending on the system, that can or may be an indicator. pull the side case off and watch the fan function, especially cpu. if the fan lugs or drags, it is time to replace, hope that is all it is, meanwhile, good luck!
it could be the fans but they dont lag and no beeps or tones happen when it freezes. im at wits end ha. any suggestions?
this is a common shop hound. that is we know to turn such a machine away from repair no matter how minor as the owner would then claim all troubles were because of our repair even if it was to glue the decal back onto the frame. consider that it served well and start looking for something newer even if it's from the free list at craigslist or freecycle. bob
im a 15 yo kid, who cant really get a job yet. is there anything out there thats $85. because right now thats all i have. any good cheap new machines out there?
and, all these while gave the internal fans (even the psu) a good clean by dusting it away out from the cpu. sluggish to me, but not freezing until i start running heavy duty stuffs like photoshops with mp3 playing and video watching simultaneously which are tolerable to me. the few things you can give it longer life are: 1) updates for graphic card... your graphic card will already have new updates which will unfreeze 2) motherboard updates - bios, drivers.. lookup the manufacturer's manual on how to do it 3) updates for windows - especially drivers and directx. stick to 9 if possible as 10 may not running smoothly on older cards 4) autostart programs - some programs you installed may put one of these little fellows.  have some good utilities which you can use, but do it with caution. 5) game/programs - newer ones will require newer hardware specs. stick to those within the era of the hardware, unless it's necesary to have new ones. exception will be the security s/w. again,  have some good reviews on these guys, especially in relations to hardware requirements. hope it helps.
i've seen pentium 4 machines with 3d cards and more for free given away. did you look at freecycle and the free sections of craigslist? bob
hi bob, so some people post free old components at craiglist? did you acquire some components here before? thanks.
sorry but this will be the third time i noted the free section of craigslist and freecycler. if noting three times won't do, then you must pay up. my brother does this, i on the other had freecycled off some old gear rather send it to the e-waste place. bob
ok i think that would be the last time asking you, of course i don't need to pay. that's good to know, i will try it some time. thanks for the tip!
computer often freezes due to following reasons :- 1. defective or mismatched components 2. premature ageing and electro static discharge 3. some versions of windows have bugs. thus, ceates problem. 4. down-graded drivers cause problems. 5. some programs have bugs in them that can cause these problems. there are few more which you can read here  hope this will help you. _________________ aum ram
