ok, i have perused the posts and web. it seems the issue i am experiencing with this external from maxtor is a prominent one. i have had the hd for about (1) year. always on, always connected to the pc. the other day, it &quot;fell asleep&quot; and i cannot wake it up. (upper light constantly blinking) i have read the success others have had with connecting these seagate drives directly to their sata ports internally and the computer recognizing the drive, thus restoring all potentially lost files. is a bit different. my hd is the 1 tb model, upon opening the case, it is actually (2) 500 gb drives running in dual mode giving me the overall capacity of 1 tb recognized by my computer as 1 drive. has anyone had any luck restoring or getting the computer to recognize a &quot;dual drive&quot; situation outside of the maxtor one touch case? when connected internally, my pc sees the drives as one, but when double clicking on the drive letter i get a &quot;corrupted file&quot; message. does that truly mean the info is corrupted or am i missing a step in getting my computer to recognize the dual drives as one internally? (bypassing the maxtor 1 touch iii 1tb case electronics) thanks!
time to call maxtor. let's hope your backups were current. bob
i am guessing that because you replied &quot;ouch&quot; and there is no way to pair the dual drives outside of maxtor's magic one touch box my situation is bleak? i do have a redundant backup, but capacity is not as large as the tb. so i do not do full backups on the redundant. just when i thought i was safe with a single backup drive, now i have to have a backup for the backup? where does it all end!
maxtor will have to share how outside of their hardware. there is also someone besides maxtor -&gt;  but let's be honest here. recovery is more money than backups. its sad to read that this is not a single drive since the usuals do work most of the time. just not on this one. is it worth the money to buy another maxtor dual? as to backups. here's the gruesome truth. we need at least 3 copies to call it backed up. why 3? because when one fails we still have 2 copies to retrieve from and if some pest, trojan botches the recovery we have that last backup. what i find missing from all these drives is the &quot;write protect switch.&quot; bob
