hi folks, i was doing a simple upgrade from win98 to win2k on a friends pc when the cd drive sparked and died. he told me after that it had not been working properly for a while.....i wish he'd told me that before, i've got a load of spare cd drives in the shed! after much diagnosing it remains to say that the only surviving components were the floppy drive, case, psu and memory. i have replaced the mobo with an identical one and used a spare cpu, hard drive and graphics card all of which i know are working to make up the pc. the problem is that once the pc has been shut down, it won't start again both by shutting down from windows or by using the soft power case switch (only before windows has started). i have swapped the psu and cables in case they too were damaged but nothing makes a difference. it refuses to start again for at least 4 hours of it being unplugged from the wall. only getting the chance to work on it in the evenings, this is the soonest i get to trying it again and it always starts after that 24hr break. has anyone got any ideas? am i missing something glaringly obvious? any help on this would be very much appreciated. mobo: jetway 994an (new) psu: 300w (replacement) video: 8mb s3 card (replacement) cpu: pii 366mhz mem: 64k thanks for looking, minskin
those 300 watt psus can age and get flakey. are you saying the the fans don't spin up or that the machine doesn't start? bob
hi bob, thanks for the reply. admittedly the 300w psu i'm using isn't exactly new, but was working on a similar spec machine. with regard to what starts, it will start fully to windows once only and will restart from any point, but after a full shut down it won't start again for, well, hours it seems. then there's absolutely nothing, no fans, no lights, nothing. i have other psus and will dig out another to see if it makes any difference. thanks, minskin
ok, i found 2 more 300w psus, they are the best spares i have. i've tried one and it worked straight away and started normally to windows. i shut down from windows and guess what? yep, it wouldn't start again. then i replaced that with the next psu and again nothing, no fans, absolutely nothing. i don't get it! minskin
drop a cdrom or even all ide devices out of the machine. what happens? bob
in a word......nothing. ide 1: hard drive: disconnected from board and power, nothing. ide 2: cd drive: disconnected as above, still nothing. both at once: disconnected as above, lots more of nothing........ even tried the floppy as that is one of the components that survived the frying of the original cd drive. even more nothingness! thanks for your help with this btw. minskin
your on the right path. sometimes i drag the motherboard out onto a cardboard surface and add just the floppy, a little ram and see if it will boot consistently a dos diskette. after i reach that stage i install it in the case and make sure no extra metal mounting posts are shorting out the back side of the board. i build up from there. bob
ok i'm back. it was late by the time i posted my last message (i'm in the uk) so didn't get your reply 'til today bob, thanks. anyway, i've dismantled the pc as you suggested and stripped it down to just memory, floppy and graphics and guess what? yep, it starts once and posts to tell me there's no keyboard (i'm sure it would have worked with the keyboard) but after shutdown it won't power on again, nothing, no fans, no beeps, nothing. i'm still using the power switch and speaker from the case and also the original memory module. could there be a problem with any of those? can't believe there could be anything wrong with the switch, there's not much to it is there? i'm aware that i could jumper the power pins on the board instead of using the switch but i'm always nervous of approaching the board when it's got power. i do recall the speaker sound becoming a bit strangled sounding when the alarm beeps were going off when this sorry story started with the cd drive blowing. i did of course try it again without the speaker connected, but it was the same old story....nothing. looks like i'll have to wait some hours now though to try it without the speaker connected or am i clutching at straws? frustratingly i have no spare pc133 mem modules to check the memory but would it start at all if there was a problem with it? i don't know what to try next, any more suggestions? thanks, as always, minskin
is it out of the case and on the cardboard? i read your post and it noted &quot;before windows&quot; which means you have too much hardware still to unplug since dos can boot from a floppy. think really small... bob
yep, it's out of the case and on the cardboard. i only have memory, graphics and floppy on the board and the start switch and speaker connected. i'm not sure what you mean by your post, i didn't mention windows in my last post?? because i didn't have the keyboard connected i got a keyboard error and the cmos checksum error-defaults loaded error, but satisfied that it started i just shut it down to try and restart it again so i didn't get it to boot from the floppy, then, of course, it wouldn't restart. i have always been able to start it the first time from either a boot disk or normally into windows. either way i have never been able to restart it again until hourrrrrrrs later. confused........ minskin
i'm about to give up with this unless there's anything else i can try, it's really difficult to diagnose what might be the problem when it will only start once a day and then that's it, no more until the next day. i've got it running now with just memory, floppy, graphics and keyboard and it booted fine from the floppy........ daren't shut it down now though.. minskin
you are down to floppy, memory, cpu/hsf, motherboard and psu. you can now remove the floppy, memory as well. just want it to power up and beep. there should be all of four parts on the cardboard. the speaker has never been the cause of a power up issue so that leaves you with cpu, motherboard and power supply. if that won't power up and beep, then one to three of those parts are ... bum. bob
newer boards don't power up if the cmos battery is low or missing. i wonder what voltage that battery is at? or how old it is. bob
you go a dozzie there. i suggest leave it as is, a minimized system. try using the cmos clearing pin(s) to return to defaults. reverify when the power returns and reset to the small system. allow to finish booting, if it can. if it doesn't and continues as it did, i believe the vrm is kaput, basically the mtrbd. got zapped. the vrm is a stable mtrbd. power cleaner and/or distrubes the power to mtrbd. componets, if you can pin-point the bad componet, it maybe a triac or diode that doesn't release when it should and puts a flase state until the power bleeds away from caps. that's a wag but if anything i believe its the mtrbd. at fault somewhere. you mentioned you swapped similar mtrbds. but you kept the componets like memory, etc. unfortunately the problem if 1/2 of one can resurface as still 1 or 2 componets going bad. you need a good test bed and test all componets until happy they're not it plus they work well alone with other good componets but the orginal componets if placed together again may again cause problems. its's a pita but that's the way it is. good luck -----willy
ok, so i've reduced it right down to the mboard, cpu/hsf, psu, pwrbtn and speaker. this is the first try since i switched it off approximately 3 hours ago and still nothing, absolutely nothing. i also tried 2 other batteries but again nothing. i'd tried swapping the battery before but have checked with another just in case... the board was sold to me as new (as in never used) but still could be a couple of years old. got it from ebay and can probably get my money back without problem, not that it cost much. trouble is i'm away now 'til friday (which is just as well as it probably won't be ready to start again 'til then!) so i won't be able to try your suggestions and test all parts independantly until then when i can drag out a spare working and willing pc as a test bed. i'll check back in when i return and let you know how i get on. thanks for the insight into the workings of a mboard willy, very informative and thanks bob for talking me through this and making me see just how small a pc can really be.... minskin
intriguing problem, and i would guess that the symptons indicate a thermocouple in the psu, or a capacitor on the motherboard which needs to discharge over a long period before the start switch will latch.
hi everyone, i'm back from my short holiday and have tried a few things as suggested. the replacement cpu i was using throughout, works fine in another pc and restarts without problem, as does the floppy and psu in lots of combinations, all together and alone with other hardware. however, i managed to find and tried another cpu on the problem board and guess what? yep, it started once and then wouldn't restart. so, it looks like it is the motherboard after all. thanks so much to everyone that helped with this problem, you have all been very informative and if nothing else, i have learned a lot from you. thanks, minskin
the power one circuit is on the mainboard. if you are an electronics wizard/maven, there is another way to power up if you are so inclined.  notes that the green wire to a black wire can be connected to a toggle switch to tell the psu to power up. i use at and now atx supplies for other than pc projects since they are cheap and plentiful. if it is just the power control circuit that has a defect and you are on some siberian outback, this could save you a trip across the tundra. bob
