i am looking for a good desktop computer to replace our main desktop computer. it's a 2006 dell dimension e310, running xp, still runs fine (only thing i've ever had done is replace power supply when it went out, upgraded to higher model), but the 2.8 pentium 4 just doesn't have a lot of oomph and the computer maxes out at a gig of ram, and it barely can handle our home page with all the bells and whistles attached now, let alone anything really intensive. plus one of the optical drives (burner drive) has died and the other one (dvd drive) is dying. we are going to give this one to the kids for their &quot;bedroom computer,&quot; to replace the even older (and slower) dell they have now (going to replace the dead optical drive). the other computer currently in the house is my wife's 2009 dell laptop, running windows 7. i have a budget of roughly $1,000 to $1,400, total investment (that would include monitor, shipping, uh-oh insurance, software and memory upgrades, the whole shooting match). we always have had pcs at home, last couple of desktops have been dells. however, i've worked on macs for about 17 years now in my business, currently have a 27-inch imac with all the bells and whistles. so i'm &quot;fluent in both worlds,&quot; so to speak. i really have the itch to get an imac, the 21.5 version (we have some space issues, about the biggest monitor we could accommodate is a 23 without really doing a bunch of stuff i don't want to do just to have a larger computer). my wife and kids have used my mac at work and would have no trouble adapting to the change in os. the attraction of the mac to me is the reputation for dependability and good construction and the fact that they actually include a lot of software and stuff ... at least the refurbs that i'm looking at do, they all have ilife and stuff which i think you now have to buy with new models. the last dell i bought, i got a boatload of software included, but now i see that they and other vendors pretty much sell 'em naked unless you pay for the add-ons. i would have to install windows for bootcamp (getting a copy of xp, which is what i'd use, would be another thing in my budget) or install wine to keep a few programs i use that won't work on the mac os, but it wouldn't be that big a deal. there's just something that keeps me from pulling the trigger on this, though. the reason i'm wanting to spend a little bit more on this computer than we've spent on computers in the past ... and building one is not an option, i barely can drive a nail and i just don't have the inclination to fool with it ... is that i want something solid that's less likely to tear up. to me a computer is a tool, i don't worry about upgrading or personalizing it or anything, the most i've ever done to a computer is upgrade memory, i buy what i buy and i use it and if, as in this case, it goes out of date, at some point i buy another one. but i'm an old-fashioned guy, and it's simply not in my nature to treat anything, computers included, as disposable. the thing is, i don't know if we really need anything more than a budget box. nobody in the family games, other than my wife's obsession with free cell solitaire, and that's not likely to change at any point in the immediate future. my wife and i aren't interested in it, my kids (teenagers, i guess they are out of touch) aren't interested in it. we also don't use the computer as the guts of our entertainment system ... only thing we download is music, we don't download or stream movies and that's not likely to change at any point in the immediate future. i do some things with sound files using audacity ... garageband's another thing that is attractive to me about macs ... and honestly, a good sound card and speaker setup (got premium speakers and subwoofer hooked up to this cheap dell) is tons more important to me than killer graphics. i guess nailing this down ... and sorry to ramble ... would an imac, or even a pc in the price range that i've mentioned, be overkill for our purposes? or is it still true that you get what you pay for? are there any pcs in that price range, $1,000 to $1,400 ... and again i'm talking out the door price to where i just plug it in and boot it up and go, period, set in stone ... that anyone would recommend as imac alternatives? (refurb imac is a grand, would spend $50 ... not from apple of course ... upgrading memory to 8 gigs and also would tack on care plan.) thanks in advance for any help and i'm sorry for the length.
quit vacillating, do yourself a favor and go for the mac!!
is not unbreakable. even if you get an ibm mainframe. reason? software is modifiable by the user, intended or unintended. unless an administrator locks it down and forbids any storage. that's why dumb terminals don't break, mostly. you can get a reasonably robust piece of hardware in a system for $500 but if spending 1-1.4k makes you feel better, go ahead. or consider restricting your users to tablets and guard your computer like the crown jewels.
looks like 2gb at the link below.  personally, i'm not much for 'all-in-ones' ....no matter who makes them. much prefer to have more latitude over the case and all the system components...the cpu, ram, video card, hard disk speed as well as how many hdds or cd-dvd burners and future upgradability. re monitors .... lots of choices available there too...ips backlit screens with or without the matte finish and varying degrees of tilt, swivel or pivot are the choices i want at my discretion. and as your children grow older, playing games may become more important and neither machine would be suitable for that. let us know how it turns out. vapcmd
i guess i'm going by the old-fashioned mindset, again, that you get what you pay for. walmart has a stack of &quot;complete systems&quot; on the shelves, but everything about them down to the lettering on the box is screaming &quot;cheapo ... you'll be lucky to get 18 months out of this.&quot; and i know computers tear up. the power supply fried and i've got about half of a functioning optical drive in the one i'm using right now. i'm just looking for something that has a decent track record and is not going to be something disposable, something not worth fixing if it fries. i know i'm out of step in that attitude these days, especially toward electronic devices, but it's just the way i am. basically, i've been in a position before where i had to go cheap on a computer. thanks to a bit of good fortune and some scrimping and saving, knock on wood i don't have to go cheap this time. my vacilation i guess is wondering whether i really need to go expensive. \ and fyi, one of my kids actually does have a kindle fire that he's doing much of his online stuff with now, plus as noted my wife has the laptop. we don't treat our main desktop with kid gloves, but it is kind of the &quot;center&quot; of our computing universe and we want to have our strongest and best computer there.
i upgraded the memory to full capacity, so i guess it's got 2 gigs in there. hard to remember, lol! i looked at some all in ones but wouldn't go in that direction aside from imac. the gaming thing, eldest son, 17, is utterly uninterested and is never going to be interested, he's into guitar and the only thing he does on computer aside from school stuff is facebook, 24/7 if we'd let him. youngest son, 14, plays my wife's mahjong game on pc, angry birds on kindle fire, still uses an nintendo ds and his favorite wii game is just dance ... that ought to give you an indication of where he's coming from as far as gaming ... and he basically has no use for his peers who do anything more substantial or &quot;out there&quot; gaming-wise. if it changes, it changes, but both of 'em are getting close to the point where they need to be buying their own %#^&@* computers if they want something more, lol!
you are mentally, emotionally questioning whether anything less than 1-1.4k would be good enough, so don't let logic get in the way. just do it! buying anything cheaper will result in buyer's remorse.
am going to look at a pc @ walmart ... wife works there, we get a 10 percent discount ... zt systems box, i7-2600 3.4 ghz processor, comes stock with 16 gigs of ram, 2 tb hd (although it's 5400 rpm green instead of 7,200, don't really care though) and bluray/dvd/cd writer, comes bundled with hannspree monitor, $950 including extended warranty. may be best balance between going cheapo and overspending. have checked zt systems out, seeing pretty much universal positive reviews as no-frills but solid product which is right up my alley. thanks for input.
fast. let us know how you like it. vapcmd
she'd have let me get it, she enjoys fooling around with my work imac, but i don't think she really wanted to spend that much on a computer no more than we do with it ... and i'm sure some of you folks out there have lost a lot of 1-1 votes over the years, like i have, lol!.
according to your requirements you should consider buying a dell desktop pc. you can find great dell desktops in this price range which will fulfill are the requirements you have stated above. you should be looking for some review websites that have complete overviews, features, specifications and demos for the desktops and then compare them based on their specs and features. binary store is a good place where you can find complete information on desktops.
