hi all, i recently purchased some new ram for my computer from staples, at the same time as i purchased the new computer that i bought. at staples they assured me that the ram was compatible with my computer. however, after installing the ram myself i have found that my computer is not recognizing that there is any ram. i was wondering if anyone could help me. i already had 4gb of ram installed, and i installed another 4gb of ram. i am using ubuntu x64 so it will recognize more ram, and i checked in my bios to make sure. only 4gb is showing up. the ram is pushed in &quot;all the way&quot;, and i know that my ram port is working. my computer is a hp pavilion g6-2235. the ram that i purchased has the information below. i am somewhat of a beginner and do not know what all of the data below is for, but if you can make sense of it then let me know. l/4g-ddr3-1066 sodim 4gb pc8500 ddr3 1066 mhz 9857462 i read online doing bios updates maybe, but i don't know how to do a bios update (or how it would be useful). let me know if any of you can help me! thanks
that seems to say what you bought is not supported ram. also note that section in red about matched pairs.
the quickest test for ram is remove the current ram and replace with new. if the new ram works ok, alone then you have mismatched or improper combo. if it doesn't work, you have a probable bad or true unrecognized ram which the bios won't allow. in some cases, updating the bios should get the most of many ram setups, but not all. if the bios is done and the new ram works, then you have your fix, install the other ram. as the other poster offered, if the ram is not as required, that too will fail. here's what i do in many cases. i installed pcwizard 2012, to check the ram status. the ram status will show what your current ram is. then you match that against any newly brought ram or compatible types. understand faster ram may work, only if the bios allows it and part of its current standing. if there too much difference, it should fail as its suppose to. -or- return ram and have them explain why it didn't work when their sales people said it would. tada -----willy
