i just bought a panasonic blu-ray player. i want to connect it to the internet. it does not provide a wireless internet connection. i must plug in a network cable. the problem is my computer is located in another room, and on another floor. i have a wireless router connected to computer now though. is there anything i can do to get my blu-ray player connected to the internet?
we have bridges over wifi, power line and more out there. lots of choices. here's just one -&gt;  there are over a dozen solutions for this. i'll help by finding one so you know what to look for. bob
well, since you already have a wireless router, this should work well with what you want. check out the netgear universal wifi internet adapter. this wifi adapter is compatible with most internet-ready devices such as tvs, blu-ray players, gaming consoles, and more. you can also use it to connect notebooks, wireless printers, and other networked home theater devices. for more information about the netgear universal wifi internet adapter, visit  and discover this wonderful device from netgear. enjoy!
that it's not all that great when it comes to streaming hi-def video (no personal experience with it though). is this netgear something special (just curious)?
i can stream hulu and such over my 802.11g to the hdtv just fine. yes it's not as good as a dvd when you skip chapters as you have seconds to wait as the buffers fill. is that your &quot;not all that great&quot; issue? bob
they are pretty special products actually. they are super easy to use. check out the av product line web site, as they are affordable and easy solutions to connect your products to the internet and stream live video as well
i have a netgear n router in addition to the att fios box with a mac and several pc's on the network. i want to stream movies through my samsung blu ray from costco which does not have a wireless adapter but can plug hardwire but i can't get cable to the tv area. everybody tells me to buy a roku, but i hate to do it if networking will solve my problem. which would you recommend: - netgear powerline av200 adapter xav2001-bridge or - netgear powerline av 200 wireless-n extender kit xavnb2001 or is there something else i should be looking at?
