ok... i haven't worked on it for this yet. (gateway, 933mhz, 128 ram, 40gig hdd.) 2 weeks ago i worked on my sisters gateway replacing the modem and cd/rw drive that were bad as well as removing a lot of spyware and adware. i ended up just reformatting and reinstalling windows. she couldn't do anything with the computer as it was. she called me last night saying the pc won't start now? she says she doesn't hear anything, the power start light comes on she says, and the 3 keyboard lights flash and that's it. i guess by that, i'm leaning towards power supply, without seeing it yet, going to do that tomorrow. is there a way to test the ps, i have a voltmeter and am very good with figuring things out. wondering if anyone here could offer anything? any help with this issue would be appreciated.
it's also windows me, i'll check on this post in the morning. then after checking the computer, i'll add anything sles i find. duane
observe the fans when you turn on the pc. if they just twitch and stop, the ps has tried to start but has shut down. this is usually a detected overload. it could be in the pc or the ps. disconnecting the ps from the pc will not help troubleshoot it. you cannot easily start an atx supply without it being connected to a load. even if you can jump the start switch connectors, it will refuse to start if no load is attached. if the above symptom is true, strip the mb connections of add in cards, ram cpu etc. and disconnect the drives. turn on the pc and see if the fans will run. if so, the ps has started. you can measure voltages if you can find a diagram showing where to read them. if the ps starts, you can reconnect things to see if it continues to shut down. if it does, the connected device might be bad or the ps has reached its load limit. if the ps never starts even with just the mb attached, you are probably looking at a bad mb or ps. it's a matter of logically ruling things out. good luck.
with real thin/sharp test leads, you can probe the voltages from the rear of the molex connector on the mobo from the power supply. the voltages of interest are the main 5 volts, the 3.3 volts, and the +12 volts. the minus voltages are of no interest. the 5 volt standby voltage should be there anytime that the power supply is plugged into a live outlet [and the switch on the rear of the supply is on]. this voltage is what allows the logic circuits to turn on the main voltages by a momentary contact power switch. i'm accusing you of being a human being, lol and 30 plus years of troubleshooting taught me that 95% of the time the trouble was caused by a human being having been working inside the equipment. first simply recheck evcery possible connection et al that might have gotten disturbed whether intended or not. btw, i include myself as a human being that can screw things up unintentionally.
i powered it up with all hooked up and got nothing but lights. i disconnected the floppy, cd/rw drivesall cards except video and after starting it up about less than a minute later the cpu fan started and then stopped like 2 seconds later. so i took the memory out and restarted it, well same thing with the cpu fan but this time it stayed running, although i did have to manually spin the fan for the ps to get it going. they stayed running without booting up until i reconnected the cd/rw drive then i heard the cpu fan gradually start to slow, it stopped then i heard 6 loud beeps, and 3 more beeps sefore it shut down. voltage at yellow wires is 1 v, red is 11 v. ps is a newton power ltd. model nps-250cb a 250w max. if it is determined that it is bad how do i know it is an atx type? being that the computer is already 4 years old, already having put in a new cd/rw drive and a new modem, is it worth it to keep going on parts? being as cheap as you can get pc's now? thanks for all y'alls help on this. duane miller
it was actually .01 volts and .11 volts.. so i put everything back together and the computer started up and the right voltages are there 5 and 12. this time... hmm... but i still have to manually turn the fan for the power supply, so could this issue have possibly have caused the ps to go intermittently bad? it also is not booting up all the way. ok i hear the hhd spinning, but there is no display. i don't know where to go with this now. duane miller
fan, or the power supply as most prefer. ps's are not expensive. if the tower shuts off automatically after using the normal windows shutdown, it is an atx type supply and mobo [system]. if an at type there is a bundle of heavy wires from the power supply to the power switch. this is the ac power going up to the switch and return as the way an at supply gets turned on. it's your [your sister's} judgement as to buying a new system.
works in computers also, he loaned me an extra tower, (functioning computer) so that i could swap out hardware to eliminate issues. ends up his good power supply would boot her system. but no video (his video card didn't work in it either)(bad mb problem there) although her hdd, and video card worked fine in his. her ps wouldn't boot up his working pc. so looks like her ps and mb are bad. thanks for all the help, unless y'all have anything else to add, i appreciate the help on this issue.
check the mobo for bad capacitors [leaking electrolyte or bulging] and if it is an abit mobo read the posts about the class action suit and possibly get the mobo repaired/replaced free.
anything that shows what type of motherboard it is, i see markings but nothing comes up on a search, although i don't see anything visibly wrong with the capacitors either. thanks again mr. harinec
