planning on purchasing this system. most reviews have a con that says no 64 bit windows, but when i configure it, it comes with 64 bit vista and i can bumpit up to 6mb ram. what's the story? thanks!
what software do you run that supports over the usual 2gb? while it's nice to be leading edge they don't call it the bleeding edge without reason. tell us what you run that would use this memory. bob
my interest in the memory was more reactive. i bought a dell about 5 years ago that came with rambus memory. now that i want to add more memory to it, that rambus memory costs an arm and a leg! the new system alreay is upgraded to 4gb so that might be fine. my question was more about the reviews that list in the &quot;cons&quot; - no 64 bit windows, yet dell says it comes with 64 bit vista and can support memory beyond the 32 bit limitation.
let's say your question was &quot;why did this review write 'no 64 bit windows' yet when i went to dell i can get it?&quot; the answer is to look at the date of the review and see if it is outdated. rdram is a long story on its own. but 5 years on one machine is not bad. bob
expanding upon the points robert mentioned, let's say, just what is the purpose of the system with 64-bit included. in most cases if you have no directly supported s/w for 64-bit use, its a waste. further, though the 64-bit can readily support 32-bit s/w, etc. it still just waits to breathe fully regardless of memory installed. for all intends and purposes think of it as a ferrari, having to go only 2mi. to work and at 35mph, other than show and tell, a family van would have gotten the job done. but heck, if you want it its not going to hurt overall too greatly provided you want simple demands from it and then expand from that. of course, any glitches, etc., they have to be 64-bit world fixes. why not google for 64-bit issues and base something on that. tada -----willy
in my earlier post, i should plainly explained to use 64-bit fully or at all, requires 64-bit &quot;h/w&quot; as well. the drivers thus must be ms ready for 64-bit usage. in vista it's all the more harder, not only finding 64-bit ready s/w but vista has not been warmly supported as one would like. though, this is a big problem as in xp it still prevalent as well. vista was suppose to clear problems found in xp 64-bit version but it seems things aren't all that good. let's just say, if you can avoid 64-bit usage as a beginner there are problems in plain old 32-bit to deal with that seem more solvable. tada -----willy
