i recently installed a third harddrive in my comp for more storage space. after turning the comp back on and formatting the partition, i have had nothing but trouble. the comptuer is going slow. (eg, playing winamp, if i try to open firefox, it will start stuttering...it is truly horrible) is there any way to find out what the problem is? my system: 512 ram 2.4 ghz pentium 4 the harddrives: 80 gig primary, 2 secondary at 200 gig and 160 (the 160 is the new one) any help would be greatly appreciated!
if the cpu usage is constantly 100%, then it is your cpu. if not, check physical memory. if there is not much available, then that might be why. i honestly don't see why the hard drives would give you any trouble anywhere.
i checked my physical memory, and increased it. does it matter which drive the physical memory is on? i honestly tried putting physical memory on all drives ( i dont even know what that does...) the cpu is not constantly at 100, it just gets jammed up it seems. if i try to do things at once, the comp slows down considerably...
if the added hard drive in some manner has caused the cpu to run at a higher temperature, it is possible that the cpu is being internally throttled down due to the higher temperature. the stuttering would be typical. maybe you blocked airflow in some way. the drive adds more heat, but that alone should not do it. did you accidently disable a fan??
if it is a heat issue, wouldnt the problem be more progressive, and more pronounced over time? right now, i start the computer after hours of it being off and it will stutter. i keep it on for a week straight, and there is no worsening or improvement of the situation. im sorry if i sound stupid saying this, i am definitely no expert when it comes to computers (hence why i am here, lol)
installed the new hd --&gt; system slows reomve new hd --&gt; what happens? where are all of your drives located (hd and optical)? where is your drive with the operating system located? primary ide master primary ide slave secondary ide master secondary ide slave sata other?
overheat in minutes or fractions thereof.
in the computer helath section of the bios, after it has been on for a few minutes, hit the reset and then look in the bios.
