windows 7 home edition. have mouse (without ball) attached; also tried new ergonomic / wireless mouse. problem: delayed reaction and / or no response when hovering over links. have unplugged mouse, cleaned, re-plugged. new wireless mouse has new batteries. neither recognizes links and fail to respond most times. thanks!
just out of curiosity, do you get the same effect using a hardwire mouse? also, is this mouse used in conjunction with a wireless keyboard/mouse keyboard kit? another thing, what is/are the manufacturer(s)?
(windows 7) am using cabled / connected emachine keyboard / mouse kit. whether i use the connected / hardware mouse or the new ergonomic / wireless mouse, the problem with erratic non-responsiveness remains. the wireless mouse is logictech. thanks!
tell us about your pc, how long since you used the canned air to clean ... well you tell us and maybe we'll see if it's one of those other issues. also, tell us about what you scan with for malware. and finally is this one of those 1gb ram windows 7 netbooks? those are causing folk to ask questions like yours. do you need to know why? bob
oops! have never used canned air to clean. but i do use norton internet security, and a couple of anti-spywares my netbook: acer aspire one, windows xp 1 gb. many thx!
you have windows 7 up top, now xp. if you installed xp, then it should be sluggish still due to driver issues. norton is a tad heavy so for now, given the story it seems to be doing exactly what i expect from a netbook. bob
i `mis-spoke' in last reply! my netbook has windows defender, ad-aware anti virus, avg, zone alarm. (norton is on desktop pc!) not on netbook!
&quot;my netbook: acer aspire one, windows xp 1 gb.&quot; this is a netbook. it trades speed, lag for the price. if it used to work fine then you reload the machine and if there is no hardware issue, it will work like new. bob
quote: &quot;i `mis-spoke' in last reply! my netbook has windows defender, ad-aware anti virus, avg , zone alarm. (norton is on desktop pc!) not on netbook!&quot; never run two active antivirus programs at the same time. otherwise, having an erratic mouse can wind up to be the least of your problems. system slowdown is an often noted symptom as well, system freezes are seen as well. remove one, and see how things are:
