have had a external 1t wd i use for backup for about 3 years. have run tests on it about every 3 months. everything passed. the last two times it shows random seek test and funnel seek test failed. when i run ckdsk on it, it will go for about 3 hours and says test can't be completed and locks up where i have to reboot it before windows can see it again. i assume this drive is about ready to crap out on me or is there something else i could look at. external drives are pretty cheap right now so is it even worth messing around with the old one?. thanks wayne
see if it would run and make the drive write and read more reliably. if that didn't work i'd replace the drive perhaps as an internal (fixed or dockable) or second as an external. vapcmd
ext. hds have a shorter life-cycle than int. hds, they just do. while you may not recall all those times it &quot;moved&quot; from a safe area or got jostled now and then when running, all this adds-up to begin a faltering hd. not only that but even the non-operating times it was handled, it can take only so much. let's not forget it's a simple device that besides the hd itself inside, the small i/f pcb with electronics can be easily overcomed by outside surges, etc.. plus, all too often its been left to run continuously(heat stress) and that may not always be desirable for long life of the ext. hd. you can test or if you like replace the hd(inside case) using the manufacturer's provided diags. the diags are pretty much required should any warranty be done in order to say, this or that and fulfill the warranty return process. if no warranty, save whatever before it dies and test if you care to. take the results as the basis to decide on replacement of some sort. as always, errors aren't good. tada -----willy
i ended up putting everything i had to have on thumb drives. out of curiosity i formatted the wd external hard drive and found the backup software on the hp web site and loaded it to the drive. i can now run the tests and everything passes? i put it back on my computer and everything seems to be fine, but for how long? beings it's 3 years old i will watch it very close and when it fails again, i will pick up a new on. thanks for that information vapcmd and willy.
looks the best and go with it. if you don't have a lot to back up maybe even a smaller ssd might be an alternative. the good thing is if you've got the original data, a full backup of the data, plus the thumb drives you got some redundancy and some time to shop for your longer term solution. thanks for the feedback and keep us posted. vapcmd
i have seen these little portable hard drives that are usb 2 and 3. what is the story on those? my son is a contractor and uses a laptop, he is looking for something for backup that is portable and reliable. he ask me about them and i really don't know anyone who has used them. mine has a outside power source, but that wouldn't fit with what he does. he asked around at best buy, staple and places like that, but those guys tell you anything to get a sale. any idea on those?
