i bought this adapter from radioshack called psx to usb adapter that lets you use a sony ps2 controller on your pc. the problem is whenever i plug the adapter in the rear port usb ports i keep getting an usb device not recognized. i installed the drivers before i plugged it in but that wont work. when i install the drivers, i go to the game controller properties and its not there. i then tried another game adapter and it worked. the adapter keeps making windows xp say usb device not recognized and a window shows something that says unknown device. i tried uninstalling and reinstalling but that doesnt work. the adapter comes with a driver cd and i used that. i downloaded a driver from the radioshack site and it still doesnt do anything. sometimes when i plug it in it says found new hardware adn ready to use but nothing shows in the game controller properties. i used it before before i reinstalled xp due to a mobo replacement and it worked before. any help on this?
because as far as i know there is no ps2 emulator out there that can play ps2 games on the computer...so y would u try to plug in a ps2 controller into your computer? what..u dont like the game pads designed for pcs?
maybe your gamepad is messed up. go back to radioshack and exchange for a new one, and it that doesn't work, call the company of the gamepad, cause they chould help you out...
its for pc games. i know ps2 emulators arent working good yet. i have one for my gamecube and it works when playing pc games like gta or halo. it worked before i reinstalled xp and now when i plug it ,it keeps saying usb device not recognized. i dont have the receipt and the adapter doesnt have a brand name except for radioshack.
what kind of a crappy gamepad do you have? a radioshack brand? wow, you could have just gone to compusa and get a rumbleshock pc gamepad for only 20 bucks after mail-in rebates( depends on where you live, i live in millbrae, california)
how much did you pay for your &quot;radioshack&quot; brand pc gamepad???
i've seen pics of it in the internet and it was recommended. now i wasted 11 dollars on this. i dont know how it worked before i put a new motherboard in. its not the usb port because another adapter i have works. i have the original packaging but not the reciept . i need some way for it to get detected. it keeps saying unknown device in device manager and has no !,? or x next to it. it says drivers are not installed when they are.
here is a pic of it.
does it work on any other usb ports?
same thing on all ports.
 -this is a site to download patches for games so you don't need cd to play the games, but there is a link there that you can go into which they sell all kinds of adapters for all consoles into your pc. i bought my xbox-to-pc adapter there for really cheap, and that thing works flawlessly... happy hunting!!!
