hello, i am doing my very first computer build as i am into 3d design and video editing and all of the ready made ones are far too expensive! as this is my first time i am having trouble working out which parts are compatible with eachother and i decided to come here for help! here is my list of parts mobo gigabyte ga-970a-ds3 socket am3+ 7.1 channel audio atx motherboard cpu amd bulldozer fx-8 8120 3.1ghz socket am3+ 8mb l3 cache retail boxed processo case nzxt phantom black full tower case cd drive samsung sh-222bb sata dvd optical drive | oem hard drive seagate 500gb barracuda hard drive wifi tp-link tl-wn727n wireless-n150 usb adapter gpu &lt;div&gt; sapphire hd 5450 1gb ddr3 hdmi dvi vga out pci-e low profile graphics card psu cit 700w black edition psu 12cm fan dual 12v rail 20+4pin 2x sata ram &lt;/div&gt; corsair 8gb ddr3 1600mhz vengeance memory could someone please tell me if these parts are compatible and if they would be good enough for 3d design. also, i was wondering what i would have to do if this computer broke, only the individual parts would have a warranty and i may not know what is broken and what needs to be sent back to ebuyer. thanks a lot in advance, alistair
the 5450 is a great little card but for games and cad work i'd rather see you pick from the list. here's the link.  even the sub 100 cards blow away that 5450. the psu is ok but if this was mine i'd pass it up for a psu with a single 12v rail to avoid headaches. there is another issue looming here. will the designer of this thing tell you exactly how to install windows properly? i find many install windows and then complain about performance. too many times i have found them with a windows clean install and using microsoft's subpar driver update buttons. bob
thanks for that! do you know anything about what i could do if the pc broke while all of the parts are in warranty? thanks in advance
let's say you build a machine from a pile of parts. the warranty is not on the machine but the parts. so you are the point person and sole contact for figuring out which part or parts are in need of swapping out. what's interesting is that decades have passed in the pc world yet no standard emerged for diagnosis. that is, unless you consider the old swap parts routine a standard. bob
ok... so with these parts, what would you say are the chances of something going belly - up?
there will always be a part failure someday. and i find those building their first pc often unaware of issues the second time builder learned. many get the first one running over half the time but today i have to wonder about microsoft windows. that is, i rarely see a good self install today. bob
do you think that it would be feasible, if the pc broke within warranty period, to take it to my local pc shop where they could find out what part is broken and i could then return that part to the source?
only the parts. sorry if that's rough to accept but this is an area that self builder often get upset about. they buy all those parts and no one will warrant the machine. just the parts. and to figure out which part failed around here is 120 and up usd. any savings are usually gone. it's a nice list of parts and it should be fine but then again i've found new builders put an extra mounting stud and short out a board. they are very upset but wiser from the experience. any reason why you are building a pc? bob
i mean. if the part goes wrong, do you think it would be possible to get someone to determine which part is broken (eg. a friend, colleague, worker in a pc shop). then send back that particular part. i am building a pc so that i have the experience, and also it is a lot cheaper than buying a ready made pc
but that is exactly how pcs are fixed today. someone gets to go in and troubleshoot the pc. the home builder is sometimes at a disadvantage since they don't do this a lot and may not have spares to test with. here i might debate if it's cheaper since one trip to a repair counter is 120 bucks plus parts. not one service desk i know will troubleshoot and say it's the video card. why? because if you replaced that and it still didn't work, would you be upset? this is why the usual repair centers don't take in such a request. bob
the extra cost of having them assembling the machine is 60 euro (80 dollars) - compared with buying the components with them and assembling myself. and that includes warranty on the whole, not only on the parts. personally i never took the risk. in your price comparison, did you include the cost of windows? kees
many years ago i ran a few repair shops. we had service manuals, meters, oscilloscopes and solder irons. not only that but the spare parts room was full of the stuff needed for swaps and more. today i moved on to other endeavors but keep in touch with various shops that i help at when they have a tough case. this means i have access to spares if my spares don't suffice. yes i've built my own in the past but with refurbs and laptops today i see no reason to build from scratch. bob
