i'm currently using a ibm thinkpad t30, with the &quot;cisco sytems pci wireless lan adapter,&quot; windows xp sp2. my problem is that whenever i move my laptop the wireless will drop: i get the message, &quot;limited or no connection.&quot; it can be a distance of only about 1 foot, but will definitely occur if i change rooms. i have to use the repair function every time this happens. after repairing, the laptop's internet will reconnect and will work again-- until i move it. this is very inconvenient and i don't know what's causing it. the drivers are updated and the wireless connection is managed through windows. the signal strength from my router is also strong throughout the house. any help on how to maintain my wireless connection as i move about? house?
where you router or access point is located could make a big difference. you could try moving it. next, change it's broadcast channel. since the t-30 is an older model, i wonder if you're using wireless &quot;a&quot; as these don't have the range of b/g.
thanks for replying! i don't think it has to do with the location of the router-- i can be sitting right next to it and move my computer off of my lap and it will go into limited-connection mode. other laptops in the house don't have this problem either. i'm on channel 6 because other houses are on 1 and 10. how can i check if my laptop is on &quot;a&quot; like you said? the router is set to &quot;11b/11g standard&quot; mode. the only other option on the router is &quot;g enhanced&quot; which i don't think is what i'm looking for.
you didn't mention you had other laptops that didn't exhibit this issue. i could think you might have an antenna connection problem within the laptop. the wiring generally stretches from the pci board up into the display. this means it flexes when you open and close the laptop and these wires break. as well, sometimes the plug/jack connection on the wifi adapter isn't the greatest. since laptops move and flex, any mechanical connection can become intermittent. your moving the laptop could cause a momentary signal loss requiring it to reconnect. now, if your router is b/g, your laptop runs in one of these modes so &quot;a&quot; isn't in the picture.
then are you suggesting that the only solution is to replace the hardware? the connection is very stable when the computer is stationary, and continues to work again after using 'repair'. because of this, i was wondering if there's a software issue where the computer or wireless card doesn't manage to automatically update its connection after a shift in location, resulting in me having to do it manually. is there anything that i can check on to confirm with the problem is? such as opening the laptop etc.
instead of doing the repair, just turn it off and back on to see if it reconnects. it might be the repair you are doing isn't really the cure. if this happens only with one laptop and you have others that work fine, i'd focus on that laptop first.
there's no button or shortcut on the t30 to turn on/off the wireless. i can only disable it through hardware devices.
instead of doing the connection repair. another thing you might try is to see if moving the laptop in such a way that flexing is minimized. put it on a cart and transport it slowly. you need to isolate the root cause and if it's an antenna dropout due to a broken wire or poor connection, this might help verify that.
