hi. i recently purchased a gateway 835gm running windows xp media center. the drives are a double layer 16x multi format i use for cd and dvd writing and 16x dvd drive. i have a pentium d processor 820, a gig of memory and a 250 gig hard drive. my problem is that i installed itunes (which i have been using for a while on another pc) and have had no problems (i authorized this pc) until i tried to burn a cd/r. itunes tells me &quot;disc burner or sofware not found&quot;. i have spent hours on the apple support site. i have uninstalled and reinstalled itunes (version 5) to no avail. i can insert an audio cd and itunes recognizes it and plays the tracks but i cannot figure out how to make itunes find the cd drive when i want to burn a cd. seeing i do not have an ipod, i use cds to through in the car. if anyone has any ideas, i'd appreciate it. joe
i would run the cd diagnostics in itunes to see if its a compatible drive
there appears to be an issue with nec dual layer drives and itunes 5.x i have 3 machines set up with 8x and 16x drives and itunes 5.x will see them, the cd diagnostics show its fine, but it gives me a &quot;cd burner or software not found...&quot; error message. there are lots of folks with this issue. if you can install ver 4.9 it would probably work.
thanks for the reply. i have run this a couple of times and the results indicate that the nec drive is there and lists the contents of the cd i have in the drive. needless to say, i am a little frustrated with apple's support on their &quot;free&quot; itunes product.
i have also found reports of this (and other problems) with itunes 5. i have searched for version 4.9 but the couple of links i have found to this version have been &quot;disabled&quot; with the message that posting the earlier version violates apple's software terms and conditions or some such &quot;anti user&quot; tripe. i appreciate your reply and information but i think i (and others) may need to ride this out until apple releases a new version correcting such problems without admitting they exist.
this appears to be fixed in ver 6. my nec 3250 is burning audio disks from itunes.
