hello, i have comcast internet and a dlink dir-655 router. i have a laptop, playstation 3 and 2 blackberrys hooked up on my wifi. i also think my neighbor is using or trying ot use my wifi. i need a software program or piece of hardware that will allow logging of the url's that are requested through my router. i currently use opendns, and the service itself is pretty good. however, it doesn't tell which user is requesting which url, and if a website is visited with 10 ads on it, it also shows the url's for the ad hosting company, even though they didn't actually type that url in. i know what a keylogger, browsing history, etc. is but i want to know what url's are being typed in by what user and i would prefer to have the url name resolved other than just the ip address. i have researched router logging by the actual router, but it seems as if the dir-655 isn't very good at doing this. i have also tried wireshark and wallwatcher, but they seem so difficult to use. i would love to find a good software program that has a simple interface, that would allow me to turn off logging of certain devices, such as the ps3. any help would be appreciated! thanks!
but first all this is not easy stuff. you will find folk that want easy but this area is not. so look at the router and see if it supports sending information via smnp and then look for a software that runs on the pc to collect that data. finally you'll have to set up how to filter all that data. many folk are unaware that this is going to be work on their part if they don't want to pay a few thousand for a solution in a can. bob
is there a special place i need to look to find out if it does support smnp? is there a piece of hardware that would do this rather than going through the software hassle?
i look at the router maker's documentation for this. as to the hardware, there are some but then again we are back to things very expensive and you know there is software under the hood. you may wonder why there is no simple to use software like this. it's a very simple reason. the support would cost more than folk will pay for. that is, folk that can do this, use the free tools. those that want it often do not want to know how to configure it and then may grumble about the cost. sadly this means that no one has a simple system. bob
do you know of a router that has good logging software? my dlink has a logging option, but the options are lacking bad. if i could find a good logging router, then i could use wallwatcher or some other program that converts the ip's visited into url's. thanks!
and more if you get the software. ip's are not urls. i guess you need an example.  so now you see that an ip address does not prove a thing. bob
