hi i've got an asus a8n-sli motherboard with the above processor. i installed all the pieces myself. however, the chipset fan is occasionally flakey - makes a racket trying to get up to full speed - and my pc seems to like to freeze more often than i would like. so i would like to return the motherboard... but am afraid of breaking heatsink/cpu/something. has anyone got instructions for removing the cpu - simply reversing the installation would appear to risk a, too much brute strength and b, nasty separation of the heatsink from the cpu. thanks darren.
clamping mechanism, [to me the brute strength seems a little bit of an overstatement] you'll find that the thermal grease/tape seems to have bonded the cpu. simply gently rotate the hsf a little in each direction and it will come free with no problem. of course to take the cpu you must gently depress the zif lever,move it outward a skosh and lift it up.
the clamping mechanism is two parts... the black lever, which is fine, but then the main heatsink assembly is clipped down - that's what seems to require a lot of force to unclip... feels like i'm having to attempt to push it through the motherboard in order to release the clips got a busy weekend ahead of me so will have to give this another go next week. re: thermal stuff... does that come off easily enough, and any recommendations on what brand to use when i put it all back together? cheers darren
a thermal pad??? either way it shoul;d be thoroughly cleaned of from both surfaces. if you make certain that the cleaning solvent only touches the heat sink base and the heat spreasder of the cpu, you could any mild remover product. i simply do not recall that the bracket is difficult to remove when the black lever(s) [i remember two]are released. with the mobo mounted in the case there is no support behind it, thus remove the mobo from the case and lay it on a piece of cardboard and the black antistatic pad that came with it. that'll cushion the mobo so you won't damage it, if you really have to push that hard.
maybe get arctic siler, other than that just use the plain old stuff you get from radio shack. remember arctic silver is also an electrical conductor so take extreme care that it doesn't get on any electical parts, such as cpu contacts et al.
thanks for your response ray. i've only got one black lever on my assembly. then these two clips which were a bugger to get in properly in the first place, and seem even worse to get out. last time i had a go i was trying to do it with the mobo in place, next time i'll remove it and have another go... and cross my fingers, toes and everything else. cheers darren
so that it can't flex, it'll go much easier. i had forgotten that i always put the cpu and hsf on with the mobo out of the case. the only times that i have removed them is under the same conditions. i hate seeing the mobo flex so much when it is mounted in the case.
