after i built a new computer for myself, my brother's old computer has been acting up a few times. he has an old built computer with an asus tuv4x motherboard and two quantum 20gb hard drives. one drive is named the &quot;c&quot; drive where windows is located; the other drive is the &quot;d&quot; drive. he recently got the trojan.vundo virus (for the second time) and got rid of it after two days of cleaning. after that, upon starting windows xp, the &quot;d&quot; drive would simply not show up in the &quot;my computer&quot; directory. sometimes it does, other times it does not. i took the computer apart, dusted it, replaced the ide cable and still no luck. actually, i don't really know what to do. he just wants this computer to last him until he gets a new laptop in july 2006. (he thinks that after removing some quarantined files that the virus was responsible for could have caused the problem because trojan.vundo is rooted in certain windows files. is this a possibility?) any suggestions? thank you.
i have no idea about the virus thing. on this machine when i boot i get a couple of bios screens that show the hd's the bios found. so... if you get those sort of screens you might want to watch them close and verify that the bios is not missing the &quot;d&quot; hd during it's probe. i suspect that if the bios is missing the hd then the os will have a problem.
i'm sorry, but i don't understand what you said. what is the bios' probe?
when you start the machine there are some things that happen before you load the os/windows. these things are a function of the bios&gt;basic input output system. look at it like a machine startup pkg, not to be confused with loading an os/windows that's the next level up. one of the things the bios does is look to see what devices the machine has, that's the probe. if it does not see the &quot;d&quot; drive then when you load windows i doubt that windows will see it either. unplug the &quot;c&quot; drive, power the machine on, you'll see a few screens of info appear on the monitor. where did it come from? it's not from windows, the &quot;c&quot; drive is unplugged. that's the bios running.
