everyone here seems to be well versed in the online persuit of computer hardware, so here is my question: where is the best place to buy a complete system online? my concerns in order of importance are price, customization, and customer service. i'm a casual gamer, at least moderate performance is a must. i have shopped around at various places, but i want to make sure i'm getting the best deal i can. thank you in advance for any info/ideas.
casual gaming leads to more gaming, leads to more money for better computer and/or graphics.
yeah, the casual gaming is mostly world of warcraft- it eats up some time, but i'm definitely not too hardcore. thankfully blizzard had the insight to make wow playable on some lower-end machines. if i could get a machine- no moniter, i have a 17&quot; lcd which i love- for 800 bucks or less, that would be super. (don't laugh- i know its possible.) any ideas here? the cheaper the better- i just don't want garbage, either.
you make price first priority that is exactly why when you buy a case with a power supply, the supply is usually crap. it's known as low bidding. try  at least you are dealing with competent people and know how to build a gaming system.
the power supply w/ most boxes i have seen is 420w (sometimes 350w). i would rather spend the extra 50-80 bucks to go to a 500w from a decent manufacturer. you are right, though, &quot;price first&quot; is a dangerous mindframe. where would you think i could cut my cost a little bit? i don't need dual dvd/cd drives, media card readers, zip drives, blah blah blah, so thats a start. but where else can i save money?
own, i gave you one good link. they will put in only those items that you want and check it out completely. you are doing the design. there are more that will do that. i personally don't buy from tiger direct because so much of their stuff is bought from mfrs unsold/overstock stuff. i once bought a bunch of creative labs cd-rom's from them. little did i know that those drives were crap and creative unloaded them. threw them all away. but if you know the specific items you can get some good deals from tiger. i buy virtually exclusively from newegg, they and their shipping is great. just don't buy little stuff from them, the way they price shipping on each item can really hurt if you want to buy like 10 ribbon cables or such. [$1.80 per cable, 3.70 each to ship, maybe tapers to 3.00 per cable for 10 lol]
just realized i'm talking to the same person over in the desktop forum with almost the same buying question. check over here for some of my comments.
i wasn't sure which forum would be best so i figured i would save myself the trouble and use both!
i'd suggestyou build your own. right now there's a free course forming on cnet that covers building your own computer. it's for a high powered gaming system, but the principles are all the same; only the components would be different for a slower system. you can get mobo and processor combinations pretty cheap. if you have a micro center near by, you can go look at the mobo and decide what you want; need. shop online for the operating system.
that's been my only complaint with newegg. i buy 98% of my online stuff there and the shipping can be irritating. i needed multiple items once but cancelled the order because they wanted to charge shipping for each little item and not on the whole order like most suppliers. just venting!!!! chuck
for that other stuff. i had a big order [lots of small stuff] with cyber and had to call about a credit card question sending to a different address. while checking to correct the problem the girl noticed the shipping cost and said &quot;we can do a lot better than that&quot; and reduced it substantially. i appreciated that.
