i have an hp pavilion 7840 30gb ultra dma hd, 48x cd-rom, hp cd writer plus. micro atx power supply(90watt). the case has 4 expansion slots, 1 front usb and 1 front 9 pin serial port. i want to get a new motherboard and processer and power supply. i want to keep the case and everything else. i'm not sure if i could use the same hard drive. i'd like to get a power supply with at least 300w. can i get a mico atx power supply with that kind of wattage or more. i want a motherboard with agp 8x and i want a pentium 4. right now i'm running me but i do have windows 98 brand new in the package. any suggestions?
did a quick search using google using micro ata 500w power supply and got the following:  peter
the problem with using oem cases is they tend to be propietory or can't be used in the generic sense. however, each system case can be made over with time and effort provided cost isn't too great. to be practcial and since many a case may not conform to std. generic sizing, you may find yourself in a corner. however, some cases do easily adapt w/o any problems, but no info may be provided to headoff a possible glitch(sizing), thus you take your chances. you may find it easier to take oem parts(insides) to a generic system case more easier but even that isn't a given. tada -----willy
i understand what your saying but my question still is'nt answered.
here's why. most p4's and specifically the 3.0ghz unit draws 70 to 90 watts just for the cpu alone. the micro-atx case is not suitable for most p4s since the case can't exhaust that much heat. -&gt; may i suggest you abandon this upgrade and focus on optimising what you have now. -&gt; yes there are a few 300 watt micro-atx power supplies, but in light of the case is not designed for this much heat removal, you would be foolish to do this. bob
plainly put i have no quest to find out what you need to know. you need to do the legwork in what works using xyz part with your oem parts. generic cases are flexibe to install typical generic mtrbd. but oems put a slant into thier parts. they may work they may not, as far i know no one has placed a help guide to say &quot;this oem&quot; part will work or not in xyz generic system case. also, what may work for some oem system may not apply to another oem system of a later date from the same company. confusing, you bet. tada ----willy
i'll just save some money and build one little by little. i already have an atx case with a 400watt power supply. i just wanted to see if i could save some money by upgradeing my outdated system. thanks again. westfield, ma
