i have recently bought a sharp lc20b6e lcd tv with pc input. i have no problems using it with my pc but whenever i try to play a game just as it loads up the screen goes blank and the message &quot;please check pc input&quot; appears. i have tried changing resolutions but this has no effect and i know there can be problems playing pc games on a lcd tv, but is there any way round this? thanks for an help or suggestions!
maybe you use windows, but it's not evident. try this if you do. run dxdiag. on the rightmost tab, click it then in the override setting change it to 60. best of luck, bob
i tried that but didn't work. i have read in the manual for the tv that you may have to switch to external output on the pc to view certain images. could this be the problem? how would you do it?
not a word about your pc. not even a confirmation it runs windows. why so few words? bob
sorry yes i run on windows xp, did not think that it was important, what else do you need to know? also when am in the direct x diagnostic tool (dxdiag) and test direct draw and direct 3d they work apart from when it tests it full screen then the screen goes blank with check pc input signal
i was being as subtle as i could to ask for additional clues. but sorry to hear it can't be told. with every post you make the following is asked so i don't have to. note: if you're asking for technical help, please be sure to include all your system info, including operating system, model number, and any other specifics related to the problem. my bet is the video mode called up by the game is beyond the capability of the display, but without details i can't offer any help. cheers, bob
thanks bob but maybe i will have to get help somewhere else. why do you need to know my system info. the computer plays the games fine but it is the screen which has the problem with any type of game.
what they are to work on. if you blindfold me, i can't see what i'm working on. hey, that's your choice but be prepared to get flames on some boards if you try that. &quot;why do you need to know my system info. the computer plays the games fine but it is the screen which has the problem with any type of game.&quot; for example some video cards have tools to limit video modes, some games have settings you need to tinker with. -&gt; your discussion has many replies now but you didn't reveal the details and the discussion is now about why the details are needed. best of luck, bob
i have the same problem, i have a 47&quot; philips lcd tv as my computer monitor. computer make: dell model: dimension 3100 os: windows xp home basic service pack 1 processor: intel(r) pentium(r)cpu 2.80ghz. ram: 3.00 gb ram. video card: nvidia geforce 8400 gs hard drive: 9.00 gb free of 74.4gb if you need more info, let me know.
windows vista home basic service pack one
run dxdiag. on the rightmost tab, click it then in the override setting change it to 60. best of luck, also tell about the game title. some have settings to tinker with. bob
i ran dxdiag and clicked to last tab which is input for me. there was no override found.
this is windows. &quot;find the cheese.&quot;
thanks for posting help
