is it possible to buy a blu ray optical drive for a laptop and swap it out for the standard dvd drive? are there additional requirements (besides hd screen) needed on the machine to play blu ray discs? if so, where would i be able to purchase a drive? thanks
ok i can't find the make, model of the laptop so i'll give the short version. 1. sony made blu ray. *hint* 2.  3. but to play blu ray we need player software as there is no open source or free version. try this -&gt;  many laptops use sata for that drive but with only what i read in this post i can't offer much else. bob
okay thanks, i am thinking about doing this with a toshiba satellite model but i don't know how i'd find a drive that would match it's current dvd drive. so i would indeed need to purchase blu ray capable software as well?
i think i see it's a toshiba satellite but with over a decade of models i can't say all will accept this drive. as to the software, you dont have to buy that. it's only needed for playing blu ray discs. bob ps. sorry if this upsets anyone. but without the model or better yet a link to the model's home page you will have to figure it out.
you gave no clue as to the laptop model# involved here. if this is an older laptop, then i wouldn't wste time on this. you need to be 100% sure the new bd drive fits and uses the same i/f the laptop offers. when, i say fit that also means not only the size but that any cabling/harness will be proper. this in not a done deal until that is known and quite frankly this isn't as open to be provided by the specs as one would think, so its a gamble. have the old dvd drive in hand to compare. as stated to you the player s/w is going to be needed if you want bd viewing. you should look for the &quot;bundled package&quot; for this as usually it's included or full retail kit. don't fall for the cheap offering which is called, the &quot;white box&quot; or sold as h/w(drive) only. fyi, most new laptops don't even offer bd even though its been awhile already. it's never really took off, imo. you maybe better served looking at ext. bd playing setups, which in turn can be used on a desktop as well or move on to yet a better laptop when presented.  tada -----willy
sorry, it's a toshiba satellite a665-s5177x 15.6-inch laptop if that helps
sata interface and what looks to be a standard bezel. some quibble if the bezel is not exact but this is as good as it gets.
so if i want to actually play blu ray discs with it, i could purchase that drive and i would still need some type of blu-ray-playing software, correct?
i thought that was answered. if yes is not enough then try it without to see if you can save a buck. btw, i didn't comment on the laptop. nice choice. i like the cpu choice (i5) and with that you have the oomph to decode bd. bob
sorry, it's not the cost of the software i am worried about, i am just trying to make sure i have what i need. you had mentioned above &quot;as to the software, you dont have to buy that. it's only needed for playing blu ray discs.&quot; but i don't know why else i would want to install a bd drive if i wasn't going to play discs with it. thanks for the replies!
there is such as thing as bluray data discs. and some folk already have the software. glad you got your answers. bob
got it, thanks again.
