i came back to my pc after a nice weekend away, turn it on, and i get ntdlr missing. great. so i whack in the vista disk and think its just a case of start-up repair. when i restart, the screen stays black, and eventually tells me i have no disks. long story short, i reset bios, nothing, i remove and swap all my parts nothing. i take out the hard drive, works fine (except for the obvious lack of a hard drive). so i put the drive in another system, it booted fine onto that systems vista, but it doesnt see the other drive, not in disk management, or any other 3rd party software (and i have plenty of data recovery software, ive been through this before). the drive still spins up, but isnt recognised. so really im just asking, it is drive failure isnt it... so now onto the fix. like i said, ive had this happen before, and i really dont like losing my data. so im looking into ways to stop disk failure for doing this, so obviously im going for raid, but im not 100% on raid, ill read the wikipedia, but that only helps so much. if someone could just tell me what raid i want (1,2,3...??) to just have two drive's, with the exact same data on them. sorry for long post guys
believe raid will you best answer for backup or redundancy. vapcmd
if i bought the exact same drive, and just swapped the chip, could that fix it? i have no evidence to say the chip is broken, there was no smoke, and it doesn't smell, and the drive still spins up. i just don't know what else to do...
just keep in mind you have to match the logic board and the logic board's firmware. are you focusing on data recovery or data redundancy/backup ? vapcmd
i don't want this to happen again either. so i suppose i put two posts in one. sorry about that. anyways, ive already set up the return, so now its a data backup question i suppose. i don't want the hassle of having to make backups every day, or of having to restart it all if this happens again. i thought raid was the answer. if one drive fails it just uses the other, which was just a clone. maybe i was lied to about raid ha ha.
&quot;we only lose what we didn't backup.&quot; we have long discussions about backup in these forums. my backup routine is pretty simple. i copy out to an external usb drive, then to a sftp server, then to a new snazzy 8gb memory stick (just the items i can't lose) and occasional to dvdr (about 6). anyone that won't backup has set the value of their files? bob
your right, as always bob. thanks again.
