i am on a thinkpad running windows 2000 and over the past several months, i've had a problem with randomly stopping receiving packets. it happens both through the wireless and cabled connections, and there is no specific activity that causes this to occur. the problem corrects itself and the machine starts receiving packets again after a period of time if i just let it sit. i can correct the problem manually by disconnecting and reconnecting the network connection. the problem usually happens after i've been using the connection for 5-10 minutes. i can still send packets, and the connection seems to be perfectly fine - i just can't receive anything. does this sound familiar to anyone? any suggestions? at this point, i have scanned for viruses and spyware and installed the latest crappy microsoft updates but neither fixed the problem. i would really appreciate any help...
try  i'd note router and such firmware updates but your post told so little. bob
bob - i downloaded and ran the complete system scan from the link you provided. the problem persists. another symptom: when i connect to a vpn, the problem automatically occurs. as soon as i disconnect from the vpn, i am able to receive packets again. it's a cable connection and i'm using an rca dcm425 cable modem. the wireless router is a netgear mr814, but as i mentioned before, this happens both on wireless and when i'm physically connected. please let me know if there is any additional information that would be helpful. i really appreciate it.
i can't tell. the router firmware version is noted as version 5.4_06. got that? bob
it is not fine without the router. if i plug directly into the cable modem it has the same problem. could it be some kind of dns problem? i know i'm not very knowledgable about these things so i apologize if that is a silly question, but when the connection craps out, it seems like it sees the site (if i'm in a browser) but can't manage to resolve it. it's like it gets tired of doing stuff for me so it takes a break and then it's fine again.
hint: google.com and my email link in my profile. i'll give it the onceover for dns hijacks. bob
i am having the same problem - did you get a solution?
the vpn. tell me about your vpn connection. if you don't have a vpn then it's not the same problem.
i've been telecommuting for several years and all of a sudden i'm having this unstable vpn connection. the it department at work and my isp (time warner) both say nothing has changed on their end.
it's a work issue and they need to get to the bottom of this. have them bring another laptop to your home and test with that.
i have added instructions on my blog on how to fix this.
