well, about ten minutes ago, i thought my rig was finished. the cpu and soundcard came in today, and i was so excited. to my shock, i found out that my mobo sports an older 9-pin analog video connector, called a de-9. my flatscreen uses de-15 pin. my motherboard is an am2 socket one with no integrated video. i have a biostar nvidia 8600 installed right now. it has the traditional vga 15 pin and dvi connections. but when i plug my video cable from my monitor into the card, i get a &quot;no signal found&quot; error. i know the card is operating, because the fans are on. i really want to get this hooked up so i can install my os. which leads me to my second problem, my disc drive won't open. i have a traditional molex power cable connected, and it's receiving power from the psu. the ata ribbon cable is connected to both the drive and the mobo, yet it wont open the disc tray. i really need help here. i'm panicking. have i done something wrong??? specs: biostar nf520-a2 se am2 nvidia nforce 520d atx amd motherboard - retail biostar v8602gt51 geforce 8600 gt 512mb 128-bit gddr2 pci express x16 sli supported video card - retail acer al2216wbd black 22&quot; 5ms widescreen lcd monitor with hdcp support 300 cd/m2 700:1 - retail
i have a correction to make, my disc drive is working now, as long as the ata ribbon isn't plugged in. as soon as i plug it in, it stops working. i must be the mobo, or something related. aren't drives supposed to open as long as they have power?
it sounds like no mb activity. btw, your 9 pin connector is likely comm port and not a video port. can you remove the mb from the case and put it on a tabletop? connect the minimum components needed to attempt post. you'll need ram, the cpu and video card. make sure all power is connected including any additional connectors that might be needed for the video card and cpu. common causes of problems are pulled pins from connectors and unneeded standoffs on the mb panel that short out something on the back of it. this is why we try it outside of the case first.
i've done the post multiple times, and i still get no beep codes. everything seems to be working fine. should i get another mobo?
pull it out hook it up as has been stated here in these forums many times...with minimum hardware attachment and outside of the box. it's easy to make mistakes and, if you're lucky, they won't be fatal. beep codes indicate an attempt to post but errors were detected. no beeps can mean post didn't even start. this could be a missing voltage level. a simple dvm would be helpful if you have access to one. check and recheck your work. look for pins in the ps connector to the mb that pushed out of their socket. pull the cpu and see if any pins have been distorted.
changing the connection on your monitor settings, i bought two brand new hd3870's running two monitors and there was no signal i then changed the signal on my monitor settings and got the picture back.
