hi there can someone point me in the right direction of a web site that shows how to test a atx psu ie what voltages etc should be coming out of what leads etc. i realize it should be under load conditons, mobo and at least one hard drive but the rest i have no idea. so your informed help would be greatly apreciated. kindest regards tony b.
shows a test rig for testing a power supply. such are rarely needed for most of us. in fact, a new power supply with watts to spare will cost much less than testing. bob
[osha will hate you. lol] you can probe the rear of the power connector on the mobo. the black leads are all common [ground in most peoples terms]. the main 5 volts is on pins 4 , 6, 19, and 20. the main [once] 12 volts is on pin 10 [now there is also a separate 4 pin 12 volt connector, 2 pins 12 v and 2 gnd, it is now spec'd to be provided by a separate set of rails in the supply]. the 3.3v is on pins 1,2, and 11. the pins run from 1 thru 10 down one side and 11 [next to 1] thru 20 down the other side. the 11 thru 20 side has 4 black wires the other row only 3 black wires. 5 volts are virtually always red. minus 12 and minus 5 volts are virtually no longer used. testing an atx standalone means you have to learn how to turn the supply outputs on. robert's link probably shows that.
i chuckle over some stories. why do you need to test it? pwr supply fan runs=+12 good. processor fan and other fans=+12 good. hdd spins, cdrom drive opens=+5 good. need meter (harbor freight ~$5) for -5 -12 -3.3, which i have found burnt out a few times because the current rating is small.  is a link to describe the voltages of typical atx supply.
do with a voltage scale????? they draw virtually zero current. that's the point of a voltmeter. the old d'arsonvals were usually 10,000 ohms per volt. modern digital are multimegohm. meter burnouts occur when one tries to measure 120 vac when on an ohms scale [does it every time].
just a thank you to all who have contirbuted to this discussion. regards tony b.
-12, -5 are rated at about 300-400ma, while other voltages are rated 5a-20a. the point being that the minus voltages can be easily burnt out. i don't think they have the same interupt as the + voltages do. short out the +5v and the pwr supp will restart instead of burn out. lightening or other way excessive surges can more easily burn out -voltages, as has been my experience.
