i have a laptop. sadly, i am *so* plugged in that i never get to type away while i'm in bed, or surf the net while watching tv. here's the situation. i have a two story house. my cable internet jack is downstairs - thus so is our linksys wireless-g router(wrt54g). everything else is upstairs....my surround sound speakers(dolby), my external hard drive(iomega network drive), and my laptop(hp zv5000z running win xp). so what i'd like to be able to do is keep the router downstairs that i have - yet be able to stream music wirelessly to my speakers upstairs, and connect to my external hard drive. now, i don't know if this helps or not - but my external hard drive is an iomega, and the only way to connect it to my computer is through an ethernet jack...but you can buy an accessory that converts it to a usb 2.0 jack as well... is what im trying to do possible? anyone gone through this before? ideas?
you and everyone else... i have come up with two solutions - the first is to purchase a network attached storage system. it sounds like you have this already, have you tried to plug the hard drive into the router and utilize it that way? most drives allow that, and according to the iomega website, yours does also. you might need to play with it a little, though. as for your music, there are two solutions that i have found to be optimal - the roku soundbridge, and the sonos system. they will both do what you need, but are rather expensive. there is a linksys wireless music bridge that will connect your laptop to the stereo through your router, it runs about 150.00 but doesn't have the control options that the roku and sonos have. the sonos will also pull off your hard drive or network while the computer is off, which the other solutions won't do. i hope this helps...
the linksys bridge is *axactly* what i need! thanks, thats awesome. but the hard drive.. well see here's the thing...i turn my hard drive off (it has this on off button), and so id like it to be uhm...close to me? haha. but yeah is tehre any bridge device for that sorta thing? but yeah i have hookedit up to the router before and just done it that way, and that works well, as well.
i wouldn't worry about the hard drive, they are made for 24/7 use and unless you are shutting it down for security, you won't do any harm to it by leaving it on. alternatively, you can get a lamp timer and have the lap timer shut down the hard drive after a certain time. there are also remote control systems that will allow you to control power to outlets with a remote control, i belive radio shack has a fairly inexpensive line. glad to be of help!
