that's my question as written above. what part of the motherboard determines and configures a hard drive to be recognized on either the primary channel or secondary channel. i am aware of the fact that a drive determines whether its a master or slave depending on the jumper that is configured for each drive. but which chip actually configures the drive to be on the primary or secondary channel ? would it be the bios or does the southbridge or a combination of both play a role in this process ? i hope my questions are clear though i apology in case they are not. i would be happy to explain it further so please just go ahead and ask. victor
why do you ask? the bios isn't a chip. primarily it's a program. but you might find  interesting to read. kees
have the model number for the drive ? if sata, primary or secondary are determined by which sata port you connect the drive to on the mb. if ide...depends on hows the drive is' jumpered, where it's placed on the cable. let us know. vapcmd
thanks kees_b and vapcmd i have already seen the information on the southbridge link you have provided. an excellent article to be honest but it does not answer my question. i actually am not sure what is happening whether its the bios sends the signal for the sb to check if there is a master and slave on the drive or is the sb which is doing the work and supplying the required information to the bios? the issue will help me reduce some confusion that i have. i am starting to believe that its the bios that checks the primary channel and the sb is simply a means to an end. i just would like to confirm this. the drives are all ide. apparently that article does indicate thats the ide controller is rolled into the sb chipset. the jumper is fine it just tells the bios/sb that the drive is a master or slave on that channel. but then how does the bios know that its detecting a hd ide on the primary versus the secondary channel ? how does it know this ? what is the role of the sb when all of this happening ? hope the above clearifies anyone's question and if it does not just please ask me again. victor
as i've seen bioses that remap the secondary drive to the primary when the primary was missing i have to write that it's not the southbridge that determines this. it's the firmware. bob
thanks for the reply r. proffitt. so then the southbridge simply relays the request to the correct channel ? i don't believe that the bios has a direct trace (lines) to each channel...what i believe is that the bios has traces to the southbridge and the southbridge in turn has direct lines (traces) to the primary and the secondary channel. does this sound credible ? so then if my assumption is correct then its the sb chip that checks the primary channel if there are any ide devices there and the same check for the secondary channel. victor
but i have a background in electronics design, fpga design and more. your posts sound as if you are only starting the journey. let's cut through all the discussion so far and ask the big question. what issue are you trying to solve? bob
sorry r. proffitt. i did not mean in any way to offend or insult your reply at all. if you took it that away then please accept my apologies because that was not my intentions. since you definitely have the credentials i would like ask the following. i have a motherboard that plays all sorts of neat tricks. one the things that it has done in the past (not anymore) is it will detect the hard drives and place them on the secondary channel instead of the primary channel despite the drives being directly connected to the primary channel. please keep in mind that when it does this my two dvd drives on the secondary channel get bumped out. they simply don't get detected at all during the post nor in windows xp. another thing that has happened is sometimes the slave drive located on the primary channel and connected as a slave shows up as a master bumping my master drive on the primary channel out of the picture (no detection). this is only some of the issues i have seen with the hard drives and the dvd drives. what i want to know could it be the southbridge chipset that is faulty or is the fault of the bios ? also on an unrelated question do the devices connected on the southbridge hub (pci, keyboard, bios, usb and ide and so on) do they talk to each other or can they at least if they wanted to ? thanks for your input its much appreciated victor
difference too. for 80-wire drive cables with three connectors (including the one for the mb), drive jumpering (using cable select- &quot;cs&quot; ) and drive placement on cable makes a difference in drive assignment/designation . in this scenario, whenever drives are jumpered as &quot;cs&quot;...the drive at the end of the cable is designated as primary/master and the drive on the middle connector is designated as secondary/slave. also....which drive channel the drive is physically connected to on the motherboard determines whether it's read as primary channel or secondary channel. lots of different scenarios and options here. maybe it would be simpler and help you get where you want to go if you tell us the problem you're trying to solve. many intel systems have a secondary controller too so what's doing what drive may be more difficult to pinpoint the answer to your question. vapcmd
but first, understanding what chip it is will not fix this board. after decades in the biz and in design i have yet to see anyone fix a motherboard. these are too cheap for anyone to replace chips. ok, back to the laser focus -&gt; you have a dead motherboard. if it failed, then it's not the bios since that's code and on 99% of the boards you can put in new code. so that's it. you replace the board. sorry to see you dancing around what you really want to ask. i'm guessing you want to know which chip to replace. bob
primary/secondary channel or primary/secondary drive ? connecting the ide drive cable to primary or secondary channel on the motherboard sets the drive channel used if the ide drives are jumpered cs...then drive placement on the cable determines whether the drive is set as primary/secondary. bios detects and reports channel and drive settings at bootup. vapcmd
thanks for the reply vapcmd. the drive model in my case does not make a difference...i have over 10 drives and all of them have issues on the same motherboard. the drives are jumpered accordingly and to either master or slave. i personally have not seen any difference whether the drive is connected to one connector or the second on the same 80 pin cable. i believe the two ide ports on the motherboard that i have is supposed to indicate to the bios that the drive is on the primary or secondary channel. thanks again victor
almost always jumpered &quot;cs&quot;.... so placement on cable determined whether they were assigned as master or slave in the bios. if placed at the very end of a 3 connector cable....the drive was seen by the system as master...if placed in the middle...the drive was seen as slave. here's a link that describes the differences in the cables and confirms my experience with both types. by the way it's 40 pin 80 wire cable with only 39 of the pins used.  if you've tried all the possibilities ...maybe the mb or the drive controller is defective. perhaps a secondary controller would solve the problem if that's what you're trying to resolve. vapcmd
they have a failed motherboard and want to try to fix it by changing a chip. all this discussion over a failed board. bob
actually this post was very much a learning exercise then anything else. i am interested in modding the motherboard just for the fun of it. the board in question was really not an important board so making attempts to mod it was a fair idea. i really appreciate everyone'e help and informative replies. thanks again to everyone victor
unless, you have access to the &quot;controller i/c's&quot; it would be a moot point. and also, these have to be the same class or type as one brand can't swapped with another. play all you want and have the right equipment, because unsoldering isn't that easy for smc items w/o the right stuff to remove them. there will be a learning curve w/o the right gear. just a 2-cent observation tada -----willy
