hello, i just bought a belkin wireless router with adsl modem and a usb network adaptor. i have set up the router but for some reason i can only pick up a very weak signal...even though the router is around 15 metres from the computer (router has a range of 1500ft) could it be the usb network adaptor to blame? would an internal pci card pick up the signal better? also the router is near a cordless phone but the phone operates at 1.9ghz and the router at 2.4ghz so this should not be much of a problem should it? please help.
usb anything for a network. i don't care what the claims are. usb limits you, and nics were designed for networks. don't know if that's the problem, but it would be the first thing i replaced with an internal nic. besides, who needs one more &quot;something&quot; to plug into the pc when it could go inside? good luck, click here to see the cnet faces, learn a little about internet connections and data, and download free software. suppose you were an idiot. . . and suppose you were a member of congress. . . but i repeat myself. --mark twain
i thought it was strange how the signal was very weak...i will use an internal card. one more question....would the cordless phone make a difference to signal strength? they do operate at different frequencies but their very close in wavelenghth.
i've also set up 64bit wep security on this network...is this enough for day-to day internet browsing? also i have uninstalled zonealarm as belkin said i dont need it. apparently the router has a built in firewall. i ran symantec security check and it seem to be true....what is everyones opinion on this? am i secure from hackers or data theives? any info greatly appreciated.
the wep is cracked far too quickly. add the mac filtering and you've knocked out the driveby connecters. bob
if i was to add mac address filtering would this make my network secure with 64 bit encryption? is it enough. also going back to the cordless phone question is it recomendable to have the router so close to the phone?
the addage is &quot;any code devised by... can be cracked by...&quot; as to the phone, i didn't respond to that issue. there was not enough info for me to comment. in short, if it's a 2.4ghz phone, i'd move the router closer to the client machines. bob
i think its a 1.9ghz phone........it might be ok..il give it a go.
also how would i network these two computers together so that i can transfer files from desktop to laptop? my desktop is running xp home and laptop is on 98 se.....many thanks
