it use to work under xp. ok i wasn't able to burn cdr's with it any more. but it read cd's fine. but just recently i go to install a game but find the cd rom is missing. so i go into device manager, its listed but as disabled. well the device usage option is set ''enabled''. but device status says ''this device is disabled. (code 22) click enable device to enable this device.'' when i do so it simple states ''windows was not able to enable this device'' it does show up under win98 which i have duel boot. this cd rw has never needed a specific driver for it. regardless i did do a search for drivers and came up empty. all driver searches lead me to firmware update. which i'm reluctant to install when i'm not sure i need it (worked before under default firmware) and when i don't know how to find out my current firmware. i can't think of anything else. i haven't made any changes to speak of to my system (other then installing a sound card that only runs under win98 because it has no xp drivers, but that was some time ago and i'm pretty sure i remembered my cd rom working after that under xp) this is very peculiar.
i find this happens when xp is installed, but the person installing xp is unaware about motherboard drivers. many are just discovering that microsoft does not do this for us as well as we should avoid any driver offered by windows update. you didn't write about the machine so i can't offer what driver package i'd try. try this. boot xp and remove the cdrom in the device manager. on reboot xp will add it back in. if it's a simple issue that may do the trick. bob
i already installed mobo drivers. thanks (removing and readding the cdrom drive) sotra worked but.. planescape torment... when i got to a new area it wants the cd, even though the cd's in there. i don't have this trouble under win98. other times with other programs it sometimes has trouble 'seeing' the cd under xp but not win98. mobo ga-71xe thunderbird athlon 750.
the cd that came with is likely out of date. i'd hit the motherboard maker's web site for latest. i can write with authority that microsoft and the update driver will not do the trick. also, you may need better cdrw recording software. windows xp's native recording is so-so about all drives. bob
