i have an aluratek 120gb external hdd with an automatic pushbutton backup feature. it was working fine for the past month, but today something strange happened. i had my hdd connected and it was working fine, but then when i had no programs open or anything running off the device, i pulled out the usb cord to put the drive away. my computer gave an error message in the taskbar saying that there was some 'fail to write' error. i didn't think anything of it because i have seen that message before and the device still worked. low and behold i try to start up my drive and it does not work. i did not change anything since i last used it. i plug it in, the light blinks red (usually it just opens the drive folder) and then doesn't do anything. windows says it can recognize it, but i cannot access it at all. if i click on the device menu, it never opens unless i remove the device. nothing works unless i remove the usb drive. i tried system restore and it did nothing. i tried it on another computer and the same thing happened. it must be the drive. i have a lot of stuff on the drive that i do not wish to be gone, and i would like to know what i could possibly do. i have already emailed aluratek about it.
it is failing, i think. try this
if the drive isn't recognized at all, and doesn't show up on the drives list if i go to the setup when my computer is booting, doesn't that mean it doesn't show up on the bios? what can i do if there is no way to access my drive? it just locks up my computer and never loads.
as supplied most usb drives are in fat32 format so it works all over. but that's not very damage resistant and pulling the usb cable without asking the os to eject or stop the drive is asking for trouble. what next? try recovery tools like these: getdataback zero assumption recovery good luck with that. bob
do those work if my computer can't access the drives at all? i swear there must be a way to fix the drive.
if not, then we move to other ideas like putting the drive into a desktop, etc. did you try the demos? if not, why not? bob
what demos? i'm sorry i can't seem to realize what you're asking. i might as well just trash the drive.
to save me time i put words in all capital letters when they need extra attention. the names are easier to find with a search engine. try getdataback and zero assumption recovery at google.com. i don't like to post links since the address can change and others may have the same issue. bob
i think when you had taken out the drive from your computer it was in working process. you interrupted its working, which doesnot allowing it to work properly. as you have cheked your drive with other system. but you dont need to worry at all as optimum data recovery inc.is a best data recovery company capable of recovering lost data from a number of storage devices.you can contact them by calling on 800)580 4959 just follow the link
hi bob, i hate to cut in here but i have been reading these posts in hopes to learn how to recover my data back from an external hdd. to get to my question - i am trying to run getdataback for fat32( im almost positive that was the formatt) this program did find my drive and also showed fat32 files...as soon as it started to skan this disk i got an i/o error on sector 0...i continued...not 5 seconds later there was another bad sector and i/o error.. should i continue with this scan or should i abort? - i am new to cnet so again i hope i'm not butting in
try the other titles and a new one i'll start noting. here's the link -&gt;  bob
sorry but i am so new to this its like reading greek. all of my computer knowledge is self taught. so this data recovery software is telling me to create a bootdisk or a bootable cdrom to run dispatch. so do i need to create a boot cd or my other option is to &quot;extract dispatch from archive and save to root of (optional hdd)&quot; if i just need to extract then i would pick the hdd that i'm trying to recover or my actual internal hdd. i hope i'm not being to simple mined here!
if creating the disk was not written in a way you could use then look to other solutions or ... have it done for you at places like drivesavers.com, ontrack.com bob
if you wouldnt, mind would you look over my thread that i started a few days ago... it explains what i think has happened where to start with my external 80gb maxtor hdd by tayroo1018 - 7/27/07 12:03 pm i will continue to work with the links you gave me until i hear otherwise. thanks for your time in this matter
