hey guys, i was wondering, is it possible to put an lcd and crt togther for dual monitor?? if it helps at all, this is my video card: xfx nvidia 5200  mine is the same except it is 128mb instead of 256. i no this most likely isn't possible but just wanted to make sure. also, would it be possible with a better video card?
it's possible with your existing card provided you have a vga adapter for your dvi port. conect the crt to the vga 15 pin d-sub, use the analog adapter (fits on the dvi port and makes it a vga 15 pin like the other one) connect the lcd, and configure them using the nvidia drivers. *note* you may want to update the nvidia drivers for your card from the nvidia website. once you've accomplished this, if you have trouble configuring the driver settings, post back here and i'll try to help you out.
ok, i just checked on the net and i am 90% sure i can use a crt with an lcd togther in dual monitor setup. and, i checked the box for the video card and i am 99% sure i can support dual monitor. my question is now, if i am wrong about these 2 statements, let me know. my main question is tho, how would i use dual monitor. like, would it play the game for example on both monitors, or could i use one monitor for the game and another for another program? lastly, ius it easy to setup up dual monitor?
was both analog, then a got a gard with both analog and dvi out and am running the lcd in gigital mode. paid a big $40.00 for the video card. lol
ok, so, my question is: if i go to play worldo f warcraft or another game, will it play on one monitor and i can do whatever with the other one?
you can move between the screens if you can run the game in a window. some games like wow allow you to do that. you just have to select that in the games video options. for the games that run in a window it's great so that you can im or run other apps at the same time as playing. after you go with dual monitors you'll never want to go single again, it makes so many things so much easier. also, i use a crt and lcd combination. my desk
as long as i play the game in a window, i can do 2 things at once. what if i didn't, would it be split across the 2 screens? also, what about regular programs. like, say i was using mozilla and itunes at the same time. could i make it so one monitor has itunes on it and one has mozilla. also, whatever i did on one monitor, would it happen on the other? like, if i am on mozilla on the crt, and i moved my cursor to say close the window, would it be moved on the other one as well? if not, how would i switch between monitors? sorry about all the questions, i am just very new on this whole thing.
it really depends on how you configure your monitors, if you set-it up to span two monitors, you actually have one large desktop. if setup as clone, you'll have two monitors showing the same desktop. anything you do on the primary monitor would only be ''cloned'' by the secondary a whole new world of computing will open up for you when you go dual-monitor. and don't worry about making any mistakes, nothing you can do on screen can damage your monitors. its pretty easy enough to understand when its already infront of you. try it then tell us how it went. life is good.
after you install the second monitor and reboot, it will be running in clone mode (identical display) by default. right-click on the desktop and select properties. select settings. you should see two monitors (1 and 2). below the monitors should be two check boxes (probably greyed out). if you see two monitors, click on &quot;2.&quot; the two checkboxes should now be available. select the second box (extend my windows...). full-screen applications like wow will run on one monitor only, but will change the resolution of both monitors. maximized apps, like mozilla will maximize in one screen only, but can be dragged to whatever screen you want. you can also resize them manually to both screens at the same time. (be aware that, although you can have different resolutions on each monitor, i don't recommend it. it makes screen swapping much harder to get used to.) with two monitors, you will be able to have, say, your word processor and web browser up at the same time. moving between them is easy; just move your mouse to the monitor of your choice. it's like an extension of your desktop. gwee
inital set-up can be a little intimidating, gweezel gives a good explaintion on setting up your monitors. some one else posted that after using dual monitors you will never go back to one. to this i will agree. set it up and enjoy.... bill
but how do u guys play games with an lcd and crt on split screen...doesn't the big gap in between annoy u? or do u just play it on 1 screen?
purpose of dual or quad monitors is to allow multi-applications to be open and seen at the same time. your choice on laying out which applications will open on which monitor. game on one, im /e-mail on the other. in my case left monitor -&gt; thunderbird/msn & yahoo messenger center -&gt; primary tasks right -&gt; files and using other applicatiions for internet reference, comparision, creating documents. 4th monitor is for show and tell hanging on wall across from desk. helpfull? bill
&quot;crt/lcd monitors work fine by gweezel - 11/29/05 4:09 pm in reply to: so... by cv4stm after you install the second monitor and reboot, it will be running in clone mode (identical display) by default. right-click on the desktop and select properties. select settings. you should see two monitors (1 and 2). below the monitors should be two check boxes (probably greyed out). if you see two monitors, click on &quot;2.&quot; the two checkboxes should now be available. select the second box (extend my windows...). full-screen applications like wow will run on one monitor only, but will change the resolution of both monitors. maximized apps, like mozilla will maximize in one screen only, but can be dragged to whatever screen you want. you can also resize them manually to both screens at the same time. (be aware that, although you can have different resolutions on each monitor, i don't recommend it. it makes screen swapping much harder to get used to.) with two monitors, you will be able to have, say, your word processor and web browser up at the same time. moving between them is easy; just move your mouse to the monitor of your choice. it's like an extension of your desktop. gwee&quot; ---------------------------------------------------------------------- tried tht , moniter does not even turn on . have tried all the settings in my nvidia control panel also . i can get it to turn on , but when it does my lcd shuts off, ( grrr ) have tried new drivers for sli vid cards (asus 9700 gso)also . i feel like i am at witts end tryin to figure out how to get duel moniters to work on my pc. 1 is lcd 22&quot; wide screen , 1 is crt 19&quot; . any thoughts ?
