how important is the performance of your computer's video card? --it's one of the most important hardware components of my system. (why is that?) --very important. (why is that?) --somewhat important. (why is that?) --not important at all. (why not?) --i don't understand the importance of my computer's video card.
i'm not a gamer and i don't even usually watch videos on my multimedia pc, so video performance is good to have but hardly essential for me. it's a lot more important on my notebook, on which i do occasionally watch dvds when traveling. but, even then, it's a lot less important than cpu speed, ram, and hdd capacity.
i like to edit video and especially with hdv i have to have a decent video card.i have an older pc (1.8 ghz)and couldn't even begin to edit hdv without it.it also gives me a much needed second monitor.
really, the entire question is somewhat meaningless unless you specify what the computer is being used for. gamers need the fastest, most powerful card available. servers need only minimal capabilities. most people can get by very well with the video built into the motherboard, or fairly low-end boards.
i do a little video editing and some fairly-sophisticated perl and java animations of my own designs, and do these with the built-in video card on my (2gb, athlon x2) system. i suspect, but don't really know,that the performance of both would be enhanced by a little better video card. at heavy loads, the pc did not quite keep up with the animations till i added the second gb of memory, and i am thinking to go to even-more sophisticated animations in the future. it's hard for me to understand why anyone except an extreme gamer would need more than a $100 video adapter.
this is somewhat of a silly question, because the results of this poll don't prove anything given that the &quot;computer&quot; isn't defined as to its kind or usage. for a desktop pc being used to play video games, view and edit digital video, etc, most people would want the most powerful graphics card they could afford. for a desktop pc being used to run business applications, a low-end graphics card--or even an integrated graphics chipset--would suffice. and of course for a laptop, integrated chipset graphics are the way to go. high-end graphics cards use a lot of power and generate a lot of heat, which would result in poor battery life, loud fan noise, and possible discomfort to the user. most people want a laptop primarily to run business applications, and would prefer long battery life and lower heat dissipation. that is why the best quality laptops usually have very basic graphics capabilities.
it's one of the most important hardware components of my system because we can only see what is on our monitor not which electron is going where inside our cpu!
the question ask how important is &quot;your&quot; video card and not &quot;the&quot; video card. this automatically implies that it's for your purposes and not just general ones.
sorry, couldn't resist throwing a bart simpson quip with the use of double negative. i was surprised that my answer was not listed as an actual option on the polls above. a request to the cnet administrators - when you put the poll in the forums for discussions, please also include the link to the actual poll. i chose to receive plain text newsletters and i can't actually exercise my vote anywhere because the link is not provided either in the newsletter or here.
and will suffice with integrated. graphics cards are important for gamers and if you work with graphics/modelling/3d animation for a living.
no really - thanks! i dissect media headlines all the time!
i think you have to specify what the laptop or desktop computer will be used for. if you are going to use it for multimedia or games, obviously a video card with more power is necessary. now if youre just after the browsing, you can settle for less.
i voted somewhat important. i don't play games or edit video so i don't need the fastest thing out there. i like to watch movies on my pc so i need something a little faster than the cheapest. and i don't like the video using my ram either. so i spend about $50.00 and for the most part i have been happy with what i get.
