hello, i am a beginner so my apologies if i do not understand or have to ask again anyways, i just got a toshiba laptop with windows 8 pre-installed. it had a 1 tb hard drive and i added another 1 tb as it has a slot i want to install linux. how should i go about partitioning my extra hard drive that i added? currently it is unallocated and currently i do not see this hard drive i added in the list of my drives in the my computer but yes i do see it in the disk management area any help is much appreciated
if i install ubuntu it will ask me where to install and what boot loader to use. at no time am i partitioning or formatting ahead of the install. those that do such tend to blow up there installed os. bob step 4 of  shows this. again i have to wonder why so many want to make this harder than it needs to be.
hello bob and thanks for the message and help, and i did try to directly download ubuntu without creating a usb and it started but then i got the message &quot;can't mount file&quot; or something like this about mounting a file and that was the end of it and nothing happened i still do have my windows 8 and nothing was changed and yes i want to keep my windows 8 and hopefully be able to dual boot await any help cheers reza
i think the problem is that ubuntu was trying to instal itself on the hard drive where windows 8 exist and since there is no room there as i did not shrink it, hoping ubuntu would use the other hard drive it failed. if i shrink the first hard drive that windows 8 is on it and if ubuntu installs correctly can i move it or give it more room from the second drive which would be free it is just a thought i am a beginner and do not know exactly if the cause of the error message (cant mount file) is really what i just said any expert thoughts/suggestions please?
the new 1tb hd is made by someone. if wd or seagate, they provide s/w to help install and prepare and others provide similar(i assume). that should include any partitioning s/w as well. just be darn sure you are addressing that new hd. once only the partitioning is done you can access it for linux as it should see a prepared hd awaiting use and direct the linux there. i'm unsure if gparted is capable under win8 use but it has provided partitioning setups for prior oses.  before you attempt anything, be sure you have a working back-up or recovery discs made in order to restore you current setup, just in case. tada -----willy
i read you tried to download without creating the usual usb or dvd. frankly i can't understand why anyone would do that and put themselves in an unsupportable position. good luck! bob
hello again, yes sorry but i was trying to download directly and why i do not know . anyway, i made a usb and booted from it and nothing happened. i do not know what to expect to be honest. would ubuntu come up automatically? sorry but i am beginning on this path but very eager and determined i tired to eject the usb and message said the file was in use by system but could not see anything anyways thanks reza
i don't usually duplicate the ubuntu site. use their site and tutorials and it's usually fine. that is, i usually find folk are making up something undocumented and wondering why it doesn't work. there is a clue &quot;i tired to eject the usb and message said the file was in use by system but could not see anything&quot; as that tells me you did not boot from the usb drive. bob
hello i installed ubuntu 12.10 using a cd image and actually did so twice. in both cases i lost my windows 8, or actually i did not lose it as when i used the recovery disk i re-gained windows 8 but i could not dual boot and only can boot into ubuntu, does so directly i read many forums and ubuntu site for how to fix this and many said run a boot repair 1- can someone please send me a reliable site or wasy to get boot-repair 2- i found some commands to be typed from ubuntu to run boot repair but to my surprise my ubuntu informed me i did not have boot repair 3- any suggestions in general as how to solve this issue 4- also when i use the remix linux from ubuntu site it goes to another site and when i make a usb it does not boot. becomes a non-bootable usb, how come? thanks a lot in advance and much appreciated for your patience i am still a beginner reza
after all this i now think this is a dead end. keep reading please. the newer laptops arrive with uefi bios enabled and that is going to break old install systems. ok, how did i fix that on a new windows laptop that came with uefi enabled? 1. i created the restore media. 2. since this was the first time i had to deal with this i slipped in a new blank hdd. 3. i set the bios to legacy only. 4. i used the restore media to restore the laptop to near factory condition. 5. finally i could boot linux media and do a good install just like we did before uefi. --&gt; what does this all mean? as the industry changes to uefi bios we'll have to wait till the linux distros catch up. sorry i didn't spot this earlier. and this subject is widely discussed so i'll stop here so you can do more research. bob
