had i settled for nothing else, i would have settled for the layout for a gigabyte ga-6ex motherboard . i found the manual at the http site listed later. the pdf manual of 20 pages shows several figures, however the figure for the motherboard is blank. i am trying to rebuild an older computer with the gigabyte mb and need help finding the graphical layout of the board. can anyone help? thank you
i couldn't find anything for that board, but i could give you some advice. normaly, motherboard manufacturers tag thier ports, inputs, and pins on the board. with the manual you v, it might take some time, bt i am sure you could decipher it. also, have you tried thier tech support?
i found a similar board manual that i am fairly sure has the same pinouts for switches/ leds etc. however, in the meantime i decided to go with a newer mb, ps, memory, etc and not contend with the {&quot;problems&quot; ) of the older board. thanks much for the input. gigabyte's web site was worthless and their email response (?)_ well, i am still waiting !!!
with that vintage series. they were actually proprietary mobos used in proprietary computers and poorly documented. found five varitations, compared item/location by item amd none acvtually matched. came the closest at the uk gigabyte site. the mobo had a dell stamp, but no sign of it at dell.
if you intend on using the ga-6ex, to build a system it will be difficult if you do not have all the information. here is the information i got, i am pretty sure you have the same. if you can get the original book manuel you will be lucky.  but to get hardware for it will be hard it would be cheaper to get a barebone kit and start from there. here is a good barebone that you would not have to spend a lot, just add cpu, memory, hard drive.  good luck wendell h
barebone is the way to go, the cheapest. this one is a lot faster than the other i mentioned earlier.  enjoy what ever you make your mind up to do. good luck wendell h
thanks to all the above suggestions, i now have a rebuilt computer, but not using the gigabyte board. it took 2 attempts to get a board that would fit in the case and a couple of catalog goof ups with power supplies but the box is up and running. again thanks
