recently i decided to build my own computer so i went to the library and got a pc book... it's a couple of years old but i figired that was ok because i only wanted to become more knowledgable about computer hardware and a few other things. anyway, in this book the author was talking about agp cards and that they are much faster than pci. i just got to wondering if anybody uses agp now that pcie has come out... thanks!
i'm using agp but pcie is faster. if you're building a computer get a mobo with pcie. most new cards are designed for pcie
the mobo determine that.
many folks use agp today and they will tomorrow. if your a serious gamer get a mobo with pci-e, it's the way the industry is going. btw. check out sata, it's the way the industry is going but still some what of a headache.
i was disappointed with sata when i fist tried it because of the messy drivers for it. ide is still much easier. i have a new agp mobo because i couldnt afford to upgrade my vid card at the same time. i regret it. pcie video cards are much cheaper for performance than agp. however because pcie is taking over, you should be able to make a really nice budget agp system that will handle older games like counter strike source on low settings and anything older than that on high settings.
the m\b i'm gonna get for my first build has sata 2, and one 16x pcie slot. now... i know it has sata 2... but would somebody please explain to me why that is good...lol
i am currently running a file server with an agp card. it's a nvidia evga e-geforce 6200. if your building a new rig, i suggest pci-e just for the future upgradablity. but, if you want to save an old agp card, stick with it. it's still not obsolite. good luck and have fun!
sata ii has faster transfer rates and buffer than sata-150. i'm pretty sure that if you gonna use sataii, the hard drive better say is has 3.0gb/s transfer rate. if you use a normal sata150 on sata ii, it will work a sata150 speeds.
i thought it would be something like...
cause i'm only 15 and have just recently started getting heavy into computers... so i guess the peak of agp was before my time...
(i'm younger than you.) if you want agp, get it
because if you ever want to upgrade, you'll need a new mobo. you'll regret it when all the new cards are for pcie.
i dont have agp i have pci anyway of adapting pcie to regular pci?
most motherboards sold now have an agp slot and a pcie slot. so you can have an agp card for now, and when you want to upgrade, migrate to a pcie card. why would you still want an agp card? the only reason i see is cheaper price. all the latest technology is for pcie, but if you don't need the latest and greatest, you can save yourself a little bit of money. radeon 9600s are pretty cheap nowadays.
&quot;most motherboards sold now have an agp slot and a pcie slot.&quot; i have only seen a few of those models that have both agp and pci express x16.
