i just got a gig of ram (2 x 512 nanya nt5ds32m8at-7k) i tried installing it but it wont work. i currently have a single 256 chip. first, i put in both sticks, and when i started the computer it just kept restarting. i then took them out and put in the old ram to make sure everything was still working, and it worked just fine. i thought the motherboard (ms-6577 ver:4.1) might not support the ram but in the f1 setup it registered the full amount of ram so it seemed that it was just the windows xp home that wouldnt load right. after that i kept my original 256 and put in a single 512 stick, trying both seperately along with the one i knew worked. with the first one, after the first restart it said the windows driver file was missing or corrupt and i had to repair it with the os disc. with the second stick, after the restart it said report as: load needed dlls for kernel. the computer still worked fine again when i just used the original ram. i am running windows xp home edition, on a compaq presario sr1103wm why wont it work? help!
that's guaranteed to work with your motherboard. did you change the ram settings in the bios or bump the ram voltage ? may be a density...high density vs low density chips used on the pcbs.
...your system supports a max of 1gb, which you have. when i google the memory you have, results are inconclusive, so it's unclear if you have registered memory or unbuffered.  according to the specifications page, the memory it's required to have is two 184-pin unbuffered ddr 333/266/200 dimms without ecc. if you are trying to put in memory that uses ecc or that is registered, it won't work.  i don't know if the memory you bought was from the compaq website, but here is the place where you can get the correct memory for your system. if you use froogle.google.com to search for places that sell it, you can find them here:  good luck. timothy
you probably have a bad stick of ram. try the new sticks one at a time and see if you can isolate which one is the problem. i'm guessing that you see a blue screen flash up really quickly right before the computer restarts, after you see the windows xp logo on the screen. this is because windows xp is set to reboot on a blue screen automatically by default. you can disable this option on your system panel in the control panel, so you can read the error message. anyways, try the new sticks one at a time. also try the sticks in different slots, because sometimes the slot on the motherboard has a problem. hope this helps.
