i have 2 xp machines running sp1. yesterday they were working fine. i could connect from either direction. today if i try to connect to computer a from computer b i get the network path was not found error. i have not ran any updates nor do i have a firewall. permissions are setup just fine on each computer. i can connect to computer b from computer a just fine. i have internet connnection and everything seems to be working fine. i am connected with an eight port switch. i have been working fine for several months now and i just don't know what could have caused this. any ideas?
there are a few that connected a cable/dsl modem to a hub/switch and it might work for a short time. then the isp knocks out the ip address and such may happen. your description of the network is too light to really tell what it is yet. do open a command window and try ... net view bob
i do have a cable modem and i use an eight port switch. both of the computers will connect to the internet and i can see each computer from command net view.
the standard setup is... cable modem -&gt; router -&gt; switch and machines. you can grouse all you want it worked before... bob
that's exactly the way it is setup. sorry i didn't specify the first time. cable modem&gt;router&gt;switch
and its working. bob
since i cannot get an answer from you i am now going somewhere else! hurray for bob
you have to supply details and even the correct details for help forums to help you. all you need to do is read your posts and see that the first post supplied &quot;not much&quot;, the second post had an error and the last post is one where you give up rather than tell what firewall you have installed. i hope the last clue was enough for you to reconfigure the firewall which i still don't know if you have such. the forum tip helps avoid such back and forth as we dig out the needed information: tip: if you are asking for help to troubleshoot a computer-related problem, please be sure to include all the necessary information (ie: operating system, model number, hardware, software, etc) that will help others identify your problem for a speedy resolution. best of luck in your endeavours. bob
people assume that troubleshooters know users' network configurations and desktop configurations. there are multiple ways you can setup a local area network and access the internet. if you go to a doctor, he is going to ask you all kinds of questions about what ails you. troubleshooters aren't any different. we ask many question and the more details you can provide about your network, hardware and software configuration, the better and quicker we can help people. also as you might have gathered from reading the various posts, no two troubleshooters are going to prescribe the same remedy. some like to get into the programing side to fix things while others prefer to reinstall the whole shebang to fix it. i belong in the latter group. after a diagnose, i've learned to substitute a suspected hardware with one that i know works. if it's a setup problem, tear it down to its simple components and then work your way up. so if we're trying to help you and we seem to be asking questions that you think might not be pertinent to your case, i beg you to be patient. our work is doubly hard because we can't physically see your setup and most of us who work with networks are hands-on kind of people. anyway, don't give up too easily
let's talk about your network setup for a second. you have 2 computers and those two are connected to a switch and the switch is connected to a router. is this a single network or do you have other things connected to the router? i'm assuming your're using a switch bec there aren't enough ports on the router. otherwise, if i were you, i would just get rid of the switch and connect both computer to the router (kiss). also are the two computers hardwire or wireless?
