i am interested in upgrading a dell 400sc computer that currently runs a celeron 2.4ghz with 512mb of ram. i already have 2gb of ram for the upgrade and am thinking of buying an intel 3.0ghz prescot 800mhz 478 pin. my question concerns compatibility. from everything i read the 400sc uses an 800fsb motherboard with a 478 pin processor socket. so the prescot would work? also, what do i have to do with regards to a heat sink or fan? any ideas would be greatly appreciated. thanks in advance...
checked either ?
dell's tech support is staffed by a bunch of idiots so they were of no help and they system docs have no information on upgrading the prodessor.
on the cpu upgrade, id scrap the idea as it pertains to that box and look at other options. while you can install another cpu, dell pcs are not designed with the idea of user cpu upgrades. cpu options are made at time of purchase ...they are not like the multitude of motherboard manufacturers who later publish cpu support lists for products manufactured 2 or 3 years ago. while there are any number of socket 478 intel cpus that will go into the socket....its really a crap shoot as to which ones would work as youd want them to in your system ..... there are issues in a number of areas ... bios, thermal, voltage, power supply, etc., etc.,. if youve got money and time to burn ... go for it. if you have a low threshold for pain and frustration, you'd be far better off looking at other options to increase performance. vapcmd
install and run the intel processor id utility,it will tell you if you what flavor celeron you have. your motherboard will run the 800 mhz but you need to see if it will support prescott (celeron d is a prescott) and if it will handle hyperthreading technology.  you also want to make sure that your psu has enough juice to run the p4 prescott as it takes nearly 100w whereas the celeron eats only ~75w. hope this is some help. c j
i's really important to review the specs of the system via the manual or support website for latest. you know the 478 scoket info and fsb, but there is a limit. it *may* install the 3.0cpu but if no greater fsb selection it may stop at 2.4, it could support the 533 side but not the 800level. one way to verify is to check dell's upgrade offering that they sell, if present, you have a definite answer. systems like dell and other oems tend to play it safe, not to keep users in the fold, but to reduce end-user product installs and complaints. so, if they offer an upgarde its a sure thing it will work. check thier store to see what's offered. tada -----willy
hey...check this out. says your board will support prescott.  read all the faq's. i noticed that it only has a 250w psu. i would definately consider replacing that to at least a 400 watt. hope this helps. c j
directly from dell's website: what processors does my system support? the poweredge 400sc supports a single processor and been tested, validated and manufactured in these configurations: intel celeron processor at speeds of 2.0 and 2.4ghz, 400mhz front side bus (fsb), 128kb cache intel pentium 4 (northwood) processor at the speed of 2.26ghz, 533mhz fsb, 512kb cache intel pentium 4 (northwood) processor at speeds of 2.0ghz, 2.4ghz, 2.8ghz and 3.4ghz, 800mhz fsb, 512kb cache intel pentium 4 (prescott) processor at the speed of 3.4ghz, 800mhz fsb, 512kb and 1mb cache. these processors fit into the intel &quot;socket n&quot;, 478 pin, ziff processor socket so if it supports a prescott at 3.4ghz, wouldn't that mean a 3.0ghz processor (prescott) would work? back in the days of the 80486 computers this stuff was much easier!
it stands to reason that if it will handle 3.4ghz @ 800 fsb it should handle 3.0ghz @800 fsb. i believe the 3.4ghz is the fastest clock speed that it is rated for. bob...do you concur? hope this helps, c j
...got the money, the time and plenty of aspirin...go for it . it might work and then again it might not. or it might work initially, but later become unstable and fail. the thing you cannot tell from the cpu configuration information sited is about the rest of the system configuration .... esp wattage of the power supplys provided with the units... i indicated that previously and it's also been mentioned by others since. systems with higher performance cpus especially the last generation of cpus require more wattage. while the cpu may work initially, chances are the system...especially an older one may become unstable and ultimately fail. let us know what you decide and how it turns out. vapcmd
as your mobo can handle the prescott consider that it would be best to consider a bigger psu if you indeed only have the 250w. also be aware that the p4 prescott runs a bit hotter than the celeron so you might also consider upgrading your hsf. a good copper core hsf would be well worth the small investment. don't forget the thermal grease. as mentioned before, it is not optional. this is a pretty good combination.   good luck. c j
don't think the existing system has a hs fan in the current design...just a passive hs and plastic ducting to channel the warm air out. maybe a better case fan would be appropriate. getting a new cpu and a beefed up psu ... he might be better off getting a new pc or taking all the usable parts and moving them to a generic box with an even better cpu. vapcmd
forgot about the passive hs. adding a better case fan would surely be easier and less expensive. given that, wouldn't it be pretty easy to just replace the cpu and then up the psu for added stability? or do you think the stock psu would suffice? c j
but when you start adding it all up, it might be better off putting that money toward a new rig...with a cpu of choice...vice the only ones that'll work in an older mb. probably have to update the bios too. vapcmd
no doubt that there are lots better out today and that 478 is getting harder to come across. i guess it would just depend on how much a person would want to engage in. prices for new have come down a good deal but if a person does not want the task of replacing software and transferring tons of personal data, the upgrade may give the older machine a bit more life. either way, i hope that the original poster will now be more confident it what ever decision he makes. thanks for your insight. c j
just a shame it isn't more straightforward ... but dell isn't the box to get if you want to buy now with the idea of upgrading major components like cpus, psus, and video, etc., later. can you do it ? . . probably ! as it pertains to this upgrade, it would just a whole lot cleaner, better to know upfront exactly what's involved .. specifically the cpu and hs and the psu. then at least you'd have all the parts and know what to expect. i thought i had seen a mb diagram of the mb showing just a low-height small heasink without fan for this system but the links below inidcate the presence of a larger, taller hs (second link below). not sure what combination of cpu and hs with or without fan might work on this configuration. doubt if a retail cpu with hs and fan would fit under the shroud. he could get an oem cpu and reuse the old hs ....just not sure if that's efficient enough to dissipate the heat generated by higher wattage cpu. this much guessing makes me nervous.   good chatting with you on this. vapcmd
vapcmd
for those who don't own one of these - this is the quietest box i've ever owned or built (i didn't build this one). the form factor (server) is not ideal for home theater, but i wish i could build a system with this kind of quality and quiet and cool. everyone is into this power thing like it's horsepower - if you're not putting a high end video card in your box (i have a separate ati low end), i don't think power is a problem. check out  for processor power requirements and heat. it's a compliation of specs, i assume it is accurate. i've got a celeron 2.26 - it has a max core amperage of 73a and a max cover temp of 67c. i am going to make the assumption that dell designed the 400sc shroud/fan for the 67c max temp. the p4 3.0 prescott 478 has a max core temp of 69c, the 3.2 and 3.4 have a max of 73.2c. the max core amperage of the 3.0 is 78a. the 3.0 might run with the stock cooling (shroud + fan), but it will run hotter. you can't overclock this motherboard and you probably won't come close to the max core amperage (very often). the problem is if does run hot you need to add a fan, you have to remove the shroud and i if sound is a big deal, it will probably be louder than the quiet guy is it. good luck, i need to do the same thing soon, while there are still 478's to be had.
i'm running 35c case, 36c cpu. it would be easy to check after installing the 3.0g.
