hi. my ibook g4 has taken quite a beating this weeekend. first, my friend spills beer into it, which is all sticky around the edges of the screen. second, my girlfriend places it too close to some candles, and now the back of the screen is partly melted. appearantly there is no harm done to the &quot;cruzial parts&quot; of the computer, since everything is working just as fine as before, and luckily there is no harm done to the screen (thank god). so it seems that &quot;only&quot; the outer parts have been damaged, which of course still is a big deal, since the computer has such a nice design. anyway, my question is, if anyone knows how to take off the white cover of the screen (the one on top when the computer is closed, with the apple-light in)? there are 2 screws in each side, which i have removed, but i cannot seem to find out how to remove the cover anyway. also, does anyone know how to remove the buttons from the keyboard? hope someone can help me.. thanks! - kasper
digging around with a screw driver in an attempt to remove the covers is likely to void your warranty, if it still has one. you may find that it is necessary to remove the screen from the lower half before you can work on it. failing that, are there any little rubber cushion type things on the edges of the case lid. if there are only two screws, i'll have to check my manual, the two halves will be held together with interlocking pieces around the edge. what buttons are you trying to remove from the keyboard? p
thanks for notifying me about the warranty. it still has the warranty, as i just purchased it 2 months ago. but how should i approach the problem then? i don't want to void the warranty, but i would really like to get a new cover. how should i remove the screen from the lower half first? it seems like the screen is connected to the ''thing'' that makes it possible to move the whole screen. i can't really find any rubber cushions or any other kind of connecting points around the screen. the spill was situated around the ''f1-f4, 1-4, q-r''-area. i would like to remove the whole upper left corner of the keyboard.
where are you planning on purchasing parts for this machine? i doubt apple will sell you anything as you are not an authorized reseller/service centre. i believe that the repair policy for this machine is for it to be returned to an central apple repair facility. i don't think they are repaired by anyone other than this center. to remove the display from the machine it is necessary to remove the following: battery, bottom case, keyboard and ram shield, airport card, top case top shield. not all the screws are the same size (length) or diameter. there are at least 14 screws in the bottom case alone. splitting the case after all the screws have been removed requires a special nylon tool. a strong thumb nail will work. the warranty is now void! here is my advice, take it or leave it. speak nicely to your beer spilling friend and your pyro girlfriend and get them to stump up a portion of the bill that apple will charge you to replace all the affected items. i really don't thing the warranty will cover this sort of damage but your house insurance might. speak with apple as soon as possible. i strongly advise you not to attempt this repair yourself unless you are feeling really confident, can afford a new ibook and have all the necessary parts at hand before you start. p
i see your point. it's a lot of stuff to take apart, and a big risk to take. in another forum, a guy posted this link:  it seems possible, but of course it's a lot of hard work, and there is the warranty to think about. thanks for you advice, i'll look into it..
that you have the parts before you start. p
