i just built a new vista business 64-bit rig, and i have hooked up my hp photosmart 7960 series printer to it. previously, this was hooked up to a xp desktop, and my other xp laptops printed to it fine. now that i have my vista rig hooked up to it, my xp laptops can't add the printer. when i try to add the printer from the local network, xp says... &quot;the server for the &quot;hp photosmart 7960 series&quot; printer does not have the correct printer driver installed. if you want to search for the proper driver, click ok. otherwise, clock cancel and contact your network administrator or original equipment manufacturer for the correct printer driver.&quot; after clicking ok, it asks my to located the file &quot;*.inf&quot;. i've tried inserting the hp disc that came with the printer and location a driver from there, but that does not work either. i've also tried downloading the latest xp drivers for this printer and installing them on my xp laptop, but that doesn't work either. help, please!
i do not own that model printer or have access to one but here's what i do to get such working. 1. i install the printer driver from hp.com for the printer for the os in question. 2. then i can find the printer and use it. &quot; tried downloading the latest xp drivers for this printer &quot; since we need vista drivers, that seems to be something odd to do. bob
i don't need the vista drivers; i downloaded and installed the vista drivers on the vista rig, and the printer is working fine on it. the problem is with the xp laptops. i have tried downloading the xp drivers for the printer and installing them on the xp laptops, but then when i try to connect to the printer over the network, i still get that driver message.
i won't rewrite this but the public has been dealt a bad hand here. let me say that the above link does work and the method of installing the printer driver first then changing the connection later. if you feel the method you are using must work (it doesn't!) then you have to deal with hp, microsoft and a few dead popes. i don't expect any of those 3 groups to respond. bob
