whenever i try to access a my tablet pc running windows vista 32-bit from my desktop running windows 7 64-bit i get a password prompt, however i cannot login with the login used on my tablet or my desktop. i get the same problem if i try to access the desktop from my pc. they are in the same workgroup and password protected sharing is off, what else could be causing this problem?
do you have an account on that machine? more issues are covered at  yes you wrote password protected sharing is off but that does not mean you don't need an account on the other machine. bob
yes, i have accounts on both machines with administrative privileges. the reason i am trying to access one another is so i can keep my music folder synchronized between the two using synctoy.
and be absolutely sure of firewalls, even the one in some routers. i didn't see where you check that other link. bob
i don't see exactly how that can help me unless you are just trying to say that you can't help me with this? i followed the steps on here  and it still doesn't help.
you had completed the changes at that site. this leaves us with firewalls (in any machine or router) and security suites too. yes, i can't help you. i am not there to do all this for you. there are quite a long list of things that can be wrong and what confounds some is why those that help can't just tell which item is wrong. what works is if we keep going down the list. bob
i turned off both firewalls and still no progress. i am not sure if the firewall of the network adapter could be causing problem, it is a mac time capsule which i can guarantee is running the default settings. what is next on the list?
not a network adapter so something was lost in translation there. here's a windows nugget. create the shares after the accounts. i've run into this oddity if the share was made and later i straightened out the accounts. since there is an apple device, consider installing bonjour from  bob
is it possible to create accounts for different domains though, and if so how? also, time capsules are also wireless network adapters.
when makers rewrite the networking book we'll have to match the old names to what they write today. that's a bridge mode and can harbor a firewall. domains are going to tax even the most season it staff as the domain servers must be configured just so. but i wonder if you have confused domains with workgroups? if you have different workgroup names you have to correct that. bob
