i am looking for a wireless router for my sister, who would not know the first thing about setting one up, so i'm trying to find one that's easy to set up. in my own experience, i've found netgear to be pretty easy &amp; quick. i've never had problems with them and they work great for me, however i always buy the more expensive, feature-rich routers. she doesnt' want to spend much and she only wants one to be able to connect her nook color via wi-fi to download books. she probably wouldn't need dual band, though in my opinion it wouldn't hurt to have it. i've read a few reviews on some belkins where people said they were easy, but i've never used a belkin myself. i know netgear is good as long as it comes with the easy set-up disc, but i think she wants to spend less. does anyone have any suggestions?
i may not be the best to answer since i configure cisco routers from the command line. all the major brands have very detailed manuals with pictures. the largest issues is many people do not read or follow the instructions. the part that you cannot avoid that is complex is the security. mostly you can use wpa2 and be good. what gets complex is some end user equipment will not support that so you have to figure out which option to use. i hope your sister has a pc i don't think the nook has a ethernet port. there are few routers you can configure via wireless out of the box and the ones that do require a good understanding of how wireless works since you will be changing the settings on the connection you are running on.
why can't you use your existing router? tell more.
because i'm looking for a router for my sister, who does not live with me. she ended up ordering a cheap belkin model which she should get soon, so we'll see if she can set it up w/o calling me over.
to setup wireless netgear router, users have to first install the router software of driver that came with the purchase of the product. users then need to run the network wizard on the system to configure the settings. specific netgear router models have different ip (internet protocol) addresses and users would have to find out the specific ip from the login page of router connection and then setup the router accordingly
