pioneer dvr-107d v1.22 firmware and &quot;kernel&quot; downloads? by sugarbear246 - 8/25/10 10:51 pm i have a pioneer dvd-rw dvr-107d--(dvd/cd rom drive) (burner). i am trying to update the (firmware to the latest version v1.22) i successfully downloaded the (firmware) and know the command to run at the:&quot;command prompt&quot;, and i have the firmware downloaded and installed in the (proper directory to receive my command)! got one problem though, the command prompt tell me (i need the &quot;kernel&quot; that goes along with the firmware update, but i'll be darned if i can find (&quot;where to download (dvr-107d v.122 &quot;kernel&quot;? anybody out there got any ideas? boy what a bummer! thanks; sugarbear246
but what's the goal here? reading posts like  i wonder if you are trying the hack the drive or just trying to save an old dead drive. bob
thanks for your reply! unfortunately; i have also visited this same link and the error message i received is &quot;target not found&quot;...when i tried to install the update? i find this to be interesting, since this is a direct link to a pioneer web page? i did however find a link to a dvr-107d firmware update from a european union web page that (installed without a problem)! here is the link i found:  it beats me why pioneer firmware updates in europe would be different than those for the us? now for the real reason i have been trying to update the firmware on this drive. it is also a &quot;burner&quot; and i have been trying to revive it with the firmware update. the truth is, the drive &quot;still does not burn properly&quot;? looks as though no firmware update of any kind will revive this drive &quot;for burning&quot; that is....it works fine for just playing a dvd! anyway, thats the skinny of it, i found my answer, but i found it in a manner i did not expect! hope this helps someone else! sugarbear246
i've watched folk try to revive dead burners with firmware. the results seem to fade with each year the drive ages. good luck in finding the firmware but i've found that with each passing year there is less and less support and the files fade away. try a cd/dvd lens cleaner? bob
