i follow the instruction in the weekend project and i have a problem. when i open the ''view worked computers'' in the pc, it only appears the name of itself. wheni open the ''view workgroup computers'' i see both the name of the notebook and the pc, but when i try to access the pc, it says ''\\dell8300 is not accessible. you might not have a permission to use this network resource. contact the admin of this server to find out if you have access permissions. the network path is not found.'' im using di-524 as my router. both of my pc (wired) and notebook (wireless) connect in it. please help me before my brain gets blow-off!
what os is on desktop? what os is on notebook? do any of them have windowsxp upgrade version installed?
1) firewalls are running and blocking 2) file and print sharing is not enabled through the firewalls 3) nothing is shared
in my pc windows xp home edition. in my notebook, windows professional
so what should i do? how can i allow the connection with firewalls? do i need to disable the entire firewall?
i want to share some folder. i am only able to share the folder in my c drive? can i share some of my folder that is not in the c drive?
yes. you can share a folder that is not on your &quot;c&quot; drive. right-click the folder you wish to share and select &quot;sharing and security...&quot; in the window that appears, set up how you want to share that folder.
all the option in the network sharing and security are gray and unable to check it. this problem is in my pc. the notebook is just doing fine.
on your desktop pc, go to your control panels and run the network setup wizard. complete the wizard, making sure you enable file and printer sharing.
then enable windows firewall. on the exceptions tab of wf, put a check mark in file and print sharing. open windows explorer, click on the tools/ folder options, then click on the view tab. at the bottom you will see use simple file sharing, put a check mark in this. set some folder on each pc to be shared and you should be good to go. third party firewalls usually have the ability to let lan traffic through. each one has is own design.
thank you, it works. ivin
