i recently upgraded to a new computer and got a seagate 120gb sata hard drive with it. i have a dvd-rom and a cdrw also. but me being me i hate getting the computer with all the different crap on the hard drive so i reformatted and reinstalled winxp pro. i know you have to go into device manager under ide ata/atapi controllers and make sure you have &quot;dma mode if available&quot; selected. well i am pretty sure my dvd-rom and cdrw are configured to ultra dma mode 2 on my primary ide channel. that would leave my hard drive under the secondary ide channel configured as ultra dma mode 5. here is why i ask: #1) i really do not know how the computers hard drive was configured originally because i reformatted and reinstalled the os. #2) when i run sisoft sandra pro 2004 it continually tells that my hard drive is underachieving. it says it should be set to ultra dma mode 6. #3) when i get my hard disk check results at pcpitstop.com i get unusually low percentage results (%43) in either cached or uncached speed (cant remember). i have a dfi i875prob motherboard and have the latest bios installed. the bios is setup to use ich5 raid type. not highpoint raid because i only have a single hard drive. plus when i install and configure for highpoint raid the computer boots completely different (meaning extra boot screens for the highpoint raid controller) from when i originally got the machine. any help is appreciated as i am totally in the dark on this problem if it is a problem???
before i reply, note that some will never understand the benchmarks are rarely duplicated or repeatable. you have to take it with some salve that you may never see the numbers that you see posted. too often, the person posts the best numbers they ever saw or just fibs. another issue is what's in the benchmark is not the same hardware as you have. but let's give it a go? here is why i ask: #1) i really do not know how the computers hard drive was configured originally because i reformatted and reinstalled the os. no question here. #2) when i run sisoft sandra pro 2004 it continually tells that my hard drive is underachieving. it says it should be set to ultra dma mode 6. while interesting, what was the score? #3) when i get my hard disk check results at pcpitstop.com i get unusually low percentage results (%43) in either cached or uncached speed (cant remember). most complain about uncached speed. which is interesting only in benchmarks since in real life we let it cache. only by changing hard disks to say 10,000 rpm units and such will you push this number. let's ask this -&gt; are you going to replace hard disks, motherboards and such just for a better benchmark? bob
already set i think everything is good now. thanks anyways!
i am facing problem sata drive for windows 2000 pro installation. purchased wd 300gb sata drive intel 865gbf mobo. 2.4ghz p4 processor. while installing windows 2000 pro showing hdd non partition or damaged partition. copy image from old windows 2000 by maxtor partition copying. then install windows xp pro fresh install.
