i have an hp pavilion a735w, amd3000+ processor. 512mb ram, and installed a new ati radeon 9550 256agp card. now when i try and play top end games (or even half life and duke nukem mp) when selecting new game, the monitor either shutsoff and doesnt come back on or the system will restart. i was told to upgrade my ram to at least a gig, install additional case fans. i am also using original 250w power supply. i am new to computer gaming but this is really irritating. also when pressing ctrl+alt.+del, you see the cpu usage and when i window a game and open this up it shows i am using 100% cpu. somebody please help. i am on a budget and i read this was good if on budget. also ati customer service sucks!!! thanks all who reply
either overheating or lack of power. could also be defective card. downloaded the latest drivers? clean out ur case or leave it open. if still shuts off then probably because the psu is too weak. doest this happen only when playing games? how bout if the computer was left on for say 4 hours?
your psu is definitely too weak to run your system. i would think you need atleast 300 or more...even my old p3 celeron with 384 ram and a 9250 radeon takes more than 250...you need a better psu
it shuts off when playing some of the higher end games not when i play like c&c, half life, etc... as for shutting down while not playing games, sometimes. when you run quite a few programs at a time, sometimes it will sometimes it wont. but if just letting it run, no. i ran limewire and let it go all night, got up in morning, never shutdown. ive tried contacting ati about this issue but every time i call there number is busy, and i've already registered my card online, i dont know where else to turn to. thanks again
do you think i should also get some more cooling fans, just to be on the safe side along with the psu?
250 watt is way to small/ get 400 watt or better
i just got the same card w/250 watts and the only time it turns off the monitor is in high end video games or when i was doing 3dmark video test. i'm came upon this thread as i was trying to trouble shoot the problem. i have a 400 w psu, hopefully it works.
