hi. i'm sure you all get this question often, but how do i stop my computer from turning on by itself at night? i have built my own computer, and recently it began turning itself on around two in the morning. i have checked the bios for any &quot;wake on&quot; settings, and they are all off. any help would be greatly appreciated! thanks, brice smith
what os are you using? windows 7 has stuff scheduled to run automatically, like disk defragmentation and updates. have a look at task scheduler and see if there are things there scheduled to run in the middle of the night. also, if you open a command prompt to run as administrator and type in powercfg - lastwake it might tell you what woke your computer (mine always says it doesn't know, but theoretically it should tell you) or if you put in powercfg -waketimers it should tell you what is scheduled to wake your computer up. i'm no computer expert, but try googling info about the task scheduler or the powercfg command and it might help you find out what's going on.
not taking anything for granted, did you actually do a &quot;shutdown&quot; pressing that button? not sleep or hibernate or log off, do you have a &quot;programmable kybd.? if so, are there any preset(came that way) or settable options that you forgotten about, check and verify. if so, do you have a pet cat, that may walk across such a kybd.. if this kybd. is also a wifi type, maybe your neighbor hits the keys and activates yours because they too have wifi active. last, check for any &quot;timed&quot; action, like defrag., etc., that awaits for that time, especially if it appears to be same time, but the pc is really asleep or never turned off. also, you may want to disable any remote access&quot; feature. if you have hi-speed broadband that's never off that too could send a signal. as for signals any errand sent one by whatever means if yours is suspectable, may surcome to it. check the bios again and be sure that you save upon exit any changes, re-toggle on/off the remote wake-up setting. i suggest, if you like place the pc and main devices on a power strip. once a proper shutdown is done, click-off the strip. that way at least no real power is present top activate the pc. do this if no resolution becomes evident. tada -----willy
well, i've had this happen, too, if you're referring to the computer coming out of sleep mode some time during the night. i assume that you're not talking about it actually turning itself on after being powered off, in that case it suggests sleepwalking *smile*. what i've done for the problem of my computer coming out of sleep mode when i didn't do anything to cause it, you've already done some of. when you disabled the &quot;wake on&quot; settings, that's a start. there are also wake-on settings associated with your network driver that are accessible via the device manager, and you also need to disable wakeup via usb devices (mouse and keyboard). you can find these settings, too, if you search for the them. they're also available in the device manager under &quot;mouse&quot; and &quot;keyboard&quot; when running it as admin, in the &quot;power management&quot; tab for those devices. once you've turned off the ability of the network, and keyboard and mouse to wake your computer from sleep, you'll be good. then, in order to wake your computer from sleep, you'll just need a quick press of the power button, and that's the only thing that will wake your computer. that has worked for me with several computers that seemed to like to wake up due to usb hid devices.
i fought this for months. i even quit using &quot;sleep&quot; for a time! everything possible was checked, but it still woke up about 1: am. it finally ended up being the microsoft clock (win 7). i changed the &quot;check&quot; time to noon, when i am usually using the system. been fine ever since!
hi! may i ask you to tell me, what you mean about &quot;check&quot;, where this trigger i`m can find at? i have the same problem and can`t solve it. my pc turn on by itself since i connected it to lan cable. before i was connect to internet via wi-fi. i checked all properties, everything about power (in bios and lan adapter) is now off. but it still turn on from sleep mode by itself(
hey, same exact thing happened to me recently, except for 3 am. there's a really simple solution that you can do with a few clicks from the control panel: look at this link:  it's basically update settings. mine was set to check for updates everyday, at 3 am. what i did was change that time to something less disruptive, but you have the option of changing frequency, etc.
