hello all, yeterday i bought a thoshiba store art 3 1tb external hard drive. it had some drivers inside(200mb) and when i checked the available space, it was showning 931gb. i checked with the vendor and he said &quot;the acutul and the available capacities are always different and moreover it is having some space reserved for backup&quot;. i do not have the access to the 1024-931=93gbs and the moment and i feel confused. i can see two partitions /dev/sdb and /dev/sdb1 but only one is accessible to me. also i am using fedora 13 and the speed i am getting is 1mb/s which is very low. pls advice.... thanks in advance|adarsh
seems ok. there are 2 definitions of gb. they differ by 7%. when selling a disk generally the one giving the largest number is used. in the os usually the other. nothing wrong with that. don't know why it's so slow (unless it's connected to a usb 1 port). kees
hi... can you please clarify in &quot;there are 2 definitions of gb&quot; ? also, is thoshiba the one holding the most space than other manufacturers ? if yes who is the most efficient ? is 7% a standard rate ?
we have decimal bytes and binary bytes. a megaton is one million tons. a computer megabyte is 1048576. we're nearly 5 per cent off already. imagine if you converted 1 billion bytes to terabytes? bob
hd makers rate capacity based on one k-byte equals 1000 bytes. an os....such as windows...rates capacity based on one k-byte equals 1024 bytes. if you think about that for a moment.....and then get out paper and pencil and expand it to one t-byte.....a whole bunch of space is going to vanish.
already tried and sobbed about the ~90 gbs. if it is a case of 1000mb to 1gb, then it around 7%. you are right. but still searching for a way to make it faster. on windows i get 55kb/s. in linux it literally slept.. but will find a way for sure
for example the host pc make, model, where connected. so here it is, some front usb ports fall back to usb 1.0 speed and while it is well discussed why, after years i found one person to fix it. this means my advice is to use the rear ports. but without make and model, how can i give that advice? about fedora. nice but i'd try ubuntu next. i find its hardware support to be a little better. bob
it is a vaio vpceb12en. it does not have usb ports on the back, but three on the right side and one usb/esata port on left, whcih can also used as a usb port(i did not try on that one). and also with windows i can see the transfer rate upto 57mb/s with the ports on the right. yes i agree with that. ubuntu has better support and also easy too, than fedora. but i love fedora !!.
site:forums.fedoraforum.org fedora sony slow usb on google finds folk talking about that. sorry but i don't write on work on fedora (just some embedded linux) so let's let fedora folk address that os.  seems to echo your post here. bob
yes. that is my post only. posted it yesterday. i am afraid it is not a problem with sony, because i am getting reasonably good speed while on windows. seems like some driver issue in fedora.
