i own a dell computer. i recently moved. when i arrived at my new home and hooked up my computer, here's what happened: computer started screen came on and had the message &quot;power save mode&quot; screen went off and no matter if i hit the mouse or keyboard, the screen does not come back on...unless i hit one of the buttons on the screen. when i hit this button, i see a message saying it is searching and then i get the message that it is in power save mode and the screen goes blank again. i am a novice/ignorant woman when dealing with computers and have no idea how to trouble shoot this. can anyone help?!?!?! thanks so much.
this doesn't tell us if your pc is working or not. just that the monitor has no signal so the monitor decided to go to sleep. double check your work, especially the monitor to pc connections. bob
can you help with troubleshoot whether it is my pc. it makes noises like it is running, but does that mean anything? thanks for your response. c
while i did note what to check, you didn't write back what you did check or any new information. one way communications such as this means i can't help you. if you decide to check your work and more, do write back with ... details. bob
sorry i've been vague. am very embarrassed i don't know what i'm doing. i have checked to ensure my monitor is plugged into an electrical outlet and is securely attached from the monitor to computer (i've attached blue to blue and it appears there is only one place to plug into my pc). i have also checked my pc. it is plugged from the pc into an outlet. the keyboard and mouse are also secured into the pc. i will need to go back to my home to find the type of computer i have, etc. the only thing i know at this time is that it is a dell, desktop, about 4 years old, and runs windows xp. i have no clue if this info is helpful. i'll keep providing info as you ask. thanks, again. c
not booting. thanks for the added details since it gives a better view of the situation. given it was moved, i'd try the following. remove the power cord from the pc. open the pc cover and gently push what cards and cables you see into they slots and sockets. gentle is the key word here. it doesn't take a lot of force on most machines. leave the cover off, connect the power and watch inside the machine as well as the screen as you turn the pc power on. tell what you see and hear. fans turning? beeps? bob
unless my computer starts working after following your suggestions, i may not have access to a computer to reply until tomorrow. thanks so much and i hope this is all it is. i'll let you know either way. i soooo appreciate your help! c
bob, i followed your directions and gently pushed everything back into place. although i did not feel anything move, once i did this, my computer started up and everything is working. i appreciate your continued support on sunday!! c
i wish the best of continued (self made) luck and hope you see that little details matter when posting in the forum since we only view your machine as presented in your posts. often, just a few more clues are needed... bob
