i got a used desktop, and have a number of upgrades i would like to make to it. but first i have to get it running. when you push the power button, the power button comes on but the hard drives are not spinning and the display does not change, not even to show the bios. i think this may be either the motherboard or the graphics card. does anybody know which?
sorry, but you gave no clue of the system details and all that. its best to provide as much as possible otherwise, expect more questions just to get at a starting point. remove all connections to drives. now power-on, what are the results? is there now a display of any system respose not the display's own lost signal message or similar? tada -----willy
i didn't think the specs would be relevant, so could you tell me what you need? i tried the hard drive thing before i posted this. but there is no bios. specs: ms xp home, computer is a gateway, it says the model no. is atxaeg, graphics card is a nvidia 8860. let me know what else you need.
since you think the specs are irrelevant then the answers may be irrelevant to this machine. to save volunteers from asking this question and having a post 20 entries long before we can get down to work, why not help others help you. remember these are member to member forums, no paid staff so make it easy. thing of the person who wants to help you change your flat tire. they ask you to point to where the flat is and you tell them it's not important. bob
i don't think that is an accurate analogy. i don't need to know how to fix it. i was just asking for a second opinion of what was broken.
there is no need to chew my head off for being mistaken.
i wanted to share that these forums are all volunteer, all member to member. which means you get to try a little harder. no paid staff also means that a few members get upset over &quot;tech support.&quot; i apologize for my analogy but i have many more to choose from. but let's get back to your discussion. all that i wanted to share i have, now it's time for you to decide if it's worth helping others help you. bob
but let's cover a common no boot spins drives issue. many forget about that little battery on the motherboard. some motherboards will not boot when that the battery voltage is too low. this is why details matter. i can't tell if this machine is known to have that issue. make it easy on others with machine details otherwise you get guesses and maybe bad ones. bob
i'm not looking for free tech support. you seem to think this is the first time i've looked at a computer. the make of my motherboard is an intel desktop board d850mv
but when we want to talk about a machine, it's best to know what it is. leading off with the above can send folk away from helping out with ideas. while you seem to want to debate this, why not go with the forum flow? just put in the details so others won't run away.  gives a second idea. this board may also exhibit this issue with a not-so-good power supply or that adapter intel writes about. details are needed, a volt meter on that battery is a good idea. bob
the light on the motherboard is green, so i don;t think it is the power supply. voltage test got the promised three volts
gives us more about what or why the psu can cause a failed boot. let's say you want to troubleshoot a dead pc. the tried and true method is to remove all but the psu, motherboard, cpu+hsf and the speaker. if those parts are good then the speaker sounds in protest of all the missing other parts. if not, we are staring at the last 4 possible parts. bob
i posted to remove all connections to all drives. this way it releases the power burden for that and if those devices actually hold back the boot in h/w manner. plus, if the display changes, it gives a clue. since you have a gateway system which is oem but no model#. the model# is on a decal or sticker somewhere on the system along side the serial#. i don't recall a atxeag model, sorry. certain models may have proprietary psus or give a clue to the age of the system. in no uncertain terms, it maybe too old/unique to find replacements or deal with as costs may factor in. regardless, that is very important to me to ask as now i know to search for specs and such at support websites. upon visiting the gateway support website, enter the serial#, should give clue to day1, when it was build what it consisted of. in most cases where a system won't power-on, then simply replace psu with a similar or greater wattage unit. if it still doesn't work, then deal with the mtrbd.. at this time reduce the system to bare minimum to help progress. an old system as robert stated, replace the bios battery as they don't last forever. also, the led that's on the mtrbd. is not a real clue solver other than to say, yeah there's some power, but a psu supplies various voltages and amps, etc. if one fails it all fails. sorry, if seemly i ask dumb questions, but from my prospective, there are no dumb question when getting to the nitty-gritty. i did a quick google of atxaeg and found some users don't know the support website has any info. which makes me think this maybe a foreign model or somehow, unique system. further, the atxeag also may have additional numbers to narrow down the system model#. ie:  ie:  btw, if the mtrbd. is at fault, then do you want to even try to fix it. far too often replacing the mtrbd. is best due to cost and/or time involvement, fyi. i hope this all helps, come back with results. tada -----willy
