firewire port on pc not working properly.pls help.?i have a dell inspiron with windows xp that is about 4 years old.it has 2 firewire ports (ieee) through which i connect my audio interface.i've never had problem with it so far but yesterday when i connected the interface,i got a light on my interface (hardware) but the pc does not seem to recognize it.i tried using a different firewire interface &amp; the same thing happened.looks like something is going wrong on the firewire port of my pc.my knowledge on computers is not v good,besides the pc is out of warranty.can someone tell me what i should do to get the firewire port working well once again?i tried a new firewire cable &amp; the problem still exists.
help please.i don't see the ieee listed on device manager.this is a dell inspiron desktop (530s) running on xp.do i need to download drivers from anywhere? answers will be appreciated.thanks.
you need to check the device manager under the control panel area. goto start-&gt;control panel-&gt;system-&gt;device manager-hardware-?find listing for firewire. once found verify its present and shows its working statement. otherwise, at this point you can re-install the drive from your system disc or have the file downloaded from dell support website. if the firewire ports are not original to the dell system, then get those drivers from the maker(or disc) and continue on once in hand. if none of this correct the problems, then disable the firewire ports within the bios area or remove the pci type card if so installed. either way, will disable the firewire ports. once done, buy a pci type firewire card and install using its s/w in order to proceed. hopefully that cures your problem. check your manual or dell support for your model# pc and find info on entering bios. why, your current firewire ports went bad is something that can happen. however, provided you know the devices installed in the firewire ports are ok, the problem may repeat so be sure everything is ok. next, if you had some electrical issue, the result is some port can go bad, in this case firewire. tada -----willy
