i have a seagate freeagent go 750gb that my mac won't recognise. i can't afford to lose the contents. the drive was recognised until recently and is still seen by disk utility, but won't display a desktop icon to access the contents. i've run disk utility many times and it won't fix the problem. i've followed all the steps in the knowledgebase articles. i've tried to use seagate's diagnostics software, but without success. i've followed all steps in their knowledgebase. can you help? purchased 26 may 2008, s/n 5qd375a2 p/n 9nk2a6-51 (though difficult to read as very small)(osx 10.5.8, 2.16 ghz intel.
when you first started to use the drive, did you format it with disk utility or did you just plug it in and go about your way? you may want to look at a couple of utility programs. disk warrior would be my first choice. dw will rebuild the indexes on your hard drive and could well get it to mount again. that said, i believe it only works on disks that are mac formatted. (just checked, it only works on &quot;mac&quot; disks) others to consider are drive genius, data rescue iii and file salvage. i gather from the statement, &quot;can't afford to lose the contents&quot;, that you do not have a backup of this data. the drive itself is probably still under warranty but that only covers replacement. seagate will recover the data for you but be prepared to fork out many hundreds of dollars (insert currency of choice) for the service. let us know about the format thing. p
many thanks for your excellent help. in fact, disk utility reports that the volume is mac os extended format, so i think i followed the instructions when setting up the disk. this wasn't with disk utility, but with the supplied software on the drive. i don't have a backup to the data - photos and music mainly - so this is a huge problem. from what you say, disk warrior may well do the trick?
i'm loath to part with $99 which is the cost for most of the utilities. i've found a trial version of file salvage which may allow me to explore the drive (it recognises it) and salvage the files. the option to remount the drive is, i think, only available in the paid-for version. i'll update this with news of success or otherwise if this is a help to others. in the meanwhile, any other suggestions will be gratefully received.
and most of the other utilities are around that price, however, they are usually worth it. good luck with file salvage, i think you'll find that it will give you a list of files that it can recover and then sit there waiting for you to cough up the cash for a paid for version to do it with. p
yes, i'm also expecting that. hopefully seagate will come up with a solution, as i am sure that i am not the only one that has experienced this. interestingly, i've an older and smaller lacie drive attached that has never caused any problems. if i can recover the files from the seagate drive, i'm tempted to dump it and return to the lacie stable. it's also a shame that mac's disk utility doesn't really do the job that it should (in my case, at least). it should fix this problem and not report that all is well when i run the first aid option. i guess that's why disk warrior and others are in the game.
let us know how you get on p
well, i received a very superficial response after much prodding from seagate. it wasn't helpful - no real answer and just wanting me to purchase their data recovery service. i asked a few questions back, but only received one sentence replies. they clearly aren't interested and i certainly won't be buying any of their products again.
