i have recently finished clearing a friend's computer of literally thousands of viruses, trojans and assorted malware items. everything now seems ok, except for the &quot;safely remove hardware&quot; icon ever present with occasional popups advising to connect the device to a usb2.0 port for better results. what device? there are none connected...even using ps/2 keyboard and mouse. all usb ports are ok, except one in the pre-installed 9 in 1 card reader. suspecting the icon problem could be caused by the card reader, i uninstalled then disconnected it. on reboot, the icon had gone. i then reconnected the reader and the icon reappeared. all other components of the reader appear in my computer as removable storage devices and seem to be working ok. all except the usb port. the ever-present icon makes me think there could be a hardware prob in the reader, affecting only the usb port. any thoughts would be very much appreciated. system is hp pavilion a1525a, running windows xp media center edition and all peripherals were preinstalled and are exactly as per system specs. i did update a couple of drivers which did not alter the situation. device manager shows no drivers are needed.
this is cosmetic at this point. focus on real issues.
does the pc have an internal card reader installed? if it has, then this icon will always be shown, this is normal. if there is anything connected to the motherboard usb ports like card readers, then the 'safely remove usb' icon will be there. don't worry about it.
your card reader maybe a usb hub and will keep the icon on. if you have a sata hard drive. the windows os reads sata drives as a usb drive. i have two sata drives and i had the same thing you are having. right click on the icon and a popup window will tell you what is keeping the icon on. in your post &quot; i uninstalled then disconncted it (card reader). on reboot the icon had gone. reconnected the reader and icon reappeared.&quot; i think your reader is a usb hub.
the safely remove hardware icon is in my tray as well which serves as a safeguard re uploading photos to your computer. when your uploads have finished, click on the safely remove hardware before removing your usb connection device and wait for a popup to inform you it is safe to remove the device. in other words, it is an extra precaution well worth the little space it uses in your tray.
thanks guys...problem solved. inserted a new 9 in 1 reader. usb port works fine, no permanent icon in system tray and no frequent reminders about &quot;this device can operate faster, etc, etc...&quot;
