when trying to print on overhead projection film with an epson sx405 all in one printer, the film is passed straight thro' the printer and ejected completely blank, this also produces an error message saying that the printer has a paper jam, which is not so. the same document can be printed correctly on paper. a much older epson printer handles overhead projection film without any problem what so ever. does anyone know how to solve this problem on the sx405? toolman59
but another model required their overhead paper. let's see if epson offers this.  sorry i can't find the sx405. let me share i had to use epson's overhead product which has a white strip down the side to let the printer detect the print media. bob
bob thank you for your reply, this not my printer, but when visiting my friend yesterday, he showed me the problem. he was using a4 film with a white strip along one of the narrow edges. this was the film he used with his older epson printer, he loaded the film white strip first, the older epson ran off the required document, whilst the sx405 just spat out the unprinted film. we also tried loading the white strip at the opposite end with the same result. looking on the windows xp printing dialog box there did not seem to be any settings for using film, nor were there any in the printer's own display menu. i expect the solution to this problem is staring us in the face. thanks again toolman59
the link i supplied was epson.com and i put in sx405 and they said they couldn't find it. another overhead media type i used years ago had a full white paper backing sheet. again this sort of stuff is best dealt with by talking to epson. i can't even start because i can't find the sx405 at epson.com help others help you with the model number epson calls it or a link. bob
bob herewith the link you requested:  toolman59
does not list any transparency paper. i found no support for this media for this printer. your only hope is if you get lucky and find the old transparency stock with the full paper backing. it's been a few years (1998?) since i used that and i don't see it around anymore. you can approximate what that stuff was by taping the leading edge to another sheet of paper. bob
bob thank you for your efforts. toolman59
