i have a dell demension 4600 running xp and a lexar traveller jumpdrive. the pc will recognise the jumpdrive on the back usb ports, but not in the front. i've checked in the pc's bios, but can't find a special section involving this issue. suggestions anyone?
you need to tell if dell supplied that xp. other interesting usb issues are at  bob
i am having the same problem with a home-built machine. actually, i have a usb hub that is no longer recognizing the drive. it was working fine and then.....nothing. works in the back though. any ideas would be helpful.
i had a somewhat similar issue with my dell laptop. i bought the 1 gb jumpdrive traveller from best buy and it would not recognize on my laptop. i exchanged it and the same thing resulted. i do own an fmi 512 mb drive from compusa - works great; never a problem. i did a test with a usb extension cable (came with my digital camera) and the jumpdrive - worked fine. i found that the jumpdrive does not &quot;fit&quot; very well with my dell usb ports. it's like a manufacturing defect. it even looks a bit larger than the fmi. the usb cable makes a very snug fit to the jumpdrive therefore works. i will try this drive out on other pc's and if similar results - i will return it and get another manufacturer - maybe and fmi. jim
thank you for contacting dell technical support. i understand your concern regarding the lexar jumpdrive and this is a known issue with lexar jump drives. please note that lexar jump drive would not work in the front usb ports, this is because the front usb ports are passive ports and do not provide initialization power which may be required by some of the usb devices to function, there is not enough power in the front ports of computer for usb flash drives to work. if you require additional help on this issue, please reply to this e-mail (without modifying the subject line) so we can continue to assist in a resolution. if your issue is urgent and requires immediate assistance, please utilize our 24 hour phone support at 800-822-8965. thank you for contacting dell. respectfully, skyler dell rep # df8180 dell us technical support
