i have win32/adware.virtumonde and win32/privacyremoer.m64 on my computer. theses viruses will not allow me to connect to the internet and i got a anti-virus program from a friend but when i put it in my computer does not recognize it. how do i get rid of this...i found instructions on the web to manually remove this but it says it might destroy the comp. i can not take the chance nor afford to attempt something like that. so any help would be appreciated. thanks!
some other questions: 2. what's your own antivirus? how do you know you've got exactly those 2 viruses? why doesn't your own antivirus not quarantine or remove them? 3. did you try it (installing your friends antivirus) in safe mode? 4. what instructions did you find (a link please)? 5. i assume the manual instructions involve some editing of the registry. if you do it carefully, it's not a great risk. 6. can you afford to buy a new hard disk and do a clean install of your os on that and afterwards get your files (the files you didn't backup) from the old disk? kees
hi kees, well, i did not have an anti-virus program on my comp. i know its exactly those to viruses because i have a spy/spam blocker program running that scanned and found those two...but could not get rid of them...i tried. also, the virus itself proclaims that it is those two viruses and is trying to get me to buy an anti-virus program. i have not tried to install my friends program in safe mode. i have very limited knowledge of comps...i have had this comp for about 4 years and never had a problem. you are right the manual instructions involve some editing of the registry...but i really can't risk losing my comp. below are the instructions that i found on the net:
to boot into safe mode and install and mbam (malwarebytes anti malware). how to boot in safe mode? see  (post #152). i don't know what program your friend gave to you but mbam should remove this program. download it from  you might like to read through  (sorry, 393 posts) also. kees
hi kees, thanks! i am going to try booting it to safe mode and instialling my friends program which if i remember correctly is avast. hope it works.
(i hope, i'm using it myself), but for this xp antivirus program mbam is recommended somehow. see for yourself in the 300+ post discussion i linked to. once you get your machine up and running again, keep using avast. it needs registering to start with, and reregistering every year, but they don't spam your email-address. best of luck. kees
hi kees, i tried to install the avast program by using safe mode(tried others as well)....it still did not work. is there anything else i can do. i talked to a computer repair guy and he said it would cost 60 dollars or more to rid the virus....(heck its best to buy the anti-virus program from the virus itself for 37.99). any help right now would be greatly appreciated. thanks!
