hi, i am looking for a laptop. my budget is in between 30k to 40k. my basic requirements and questions are following. 1) i am java software programmer. so i need to run the java programming tools like, eclipse,netbeans very smoothly. 2) i would like to watch full hd movies(1080p) without having any kind of lag. colour combinations of movies should be good enough. 3)for look,i prefer glossy. but it can be changed according to you peoples suggestion. i dont know which is good matte or glossy. 4)other basic features like bt,wifi,hdmi,etc questions --------- for watching full hd movies, do i required external graphics card? if it required, how much i require(1gb,2gb or more than that?)? i found some laptop whose clock speed is less. it gives 1.9ghz. will it be enough for running the software applications very smoothily? following are some laptops which i saw. hp pavilion g6-2010ax laptop (apu quad core a8/ 6gb/ 1tb/ dos/ 1.5gb graph) (sparkling black) hp pavilion g6-2313ax laptop (apu quad core a10/ 6gb/ 1tb/ dos/ 2.5gb graph) hp pavilion g6-2302ax laptop (apu dual core a4/ 4gb/ 500gb/ win8/ 1.5gb graph) highly appreciate the valuable suggestion. also please recommend me if any other products are available. thanks paachu
my lenovo y530 with a core2duo, 4gb ram and the intel 4500mhd does 1080p on my hdtv just fine over hdmi. what made you think you need a discrete gpu for movies? bob
i was tol some people saying theat if we want to watch 1080p movies, we need minimum 1gb graphics card. and i would like to watch the 1080p movies in the laptop not connected through hdmi port. please suggest me whether i should go for graphics card or not? also which type of screen?matte screen or glossy screen?will there be any difference in watching movies?
as to your glossy/matte, of course it differs. you can see that in person so why would there be any doubt? also, it's a personal choice so no one should tell you which way to go. bob
will there by any difference in watching movies with repsect to glossy and matte? i saw some samsung series which all are matte finish. does this mean that hd video clarity will be leser? and i heard that some colour brightness will be less in the movies in matte screen. is that true?
just find a shop and look for yourself. don't forget to look at both tv's and laptops. they have the same kind of screen, so then can be compared quite well. kees
