i recently bought a dvd +/- rw dl. i am trying to copy dvd movies for my kids so they do not destroy the origionals. i cannot do it with nero 6. are there any programs that will let me do this? i thought nero was the best and easiest program to use. thanks for your help.
rather it's because the dvd are copy protected.
will do what you want. dvdsanta is a purchase program on the internet and is very simple to use...dvdshrink is free on the internet and has pretty good instructions on how to use it properly. toni
fo a site for dvdshrink,  chris l
does the recode program come with nero 6? i installed the program that came with my dvd recorder, and then i updated it. i think it is now nero 6.
i'm unsure why it's needed. bob
if you have nero 6 ultra in there, i can safely give you the site to get it. it is the nerovision express 3, package 2. i had to remove nero mediahome,nero photosnap (take your photos out of the computer, it did mess with mine), nero photosnap viewer & nero showtime (i have powerdvd). all on theis link is the updated version of 4.4.1.4 and everything is updates at:  ps - i was incorrect about needing both. in a magazine i get, it has dvdshrink, nero recode, anydvd, intervideo dvd copy 4, dvd dycrypter and #1 dvd ripper (add dvd santa to that!!) this magazine has instructions on how to build a laptop with what you want in it. broke hip in dec 2005 and wound up getting it, sent card from rehab. darrell l.
found it won't copy write protected dvd's. it might work with dvdshrink but i don't know if it was the dvd or dvdshrink that had my computer going around - had to shut down and go into safe mode to resolve problem though that update i mistyped and version is 6.6.1.4, if yours is ver.6.6.0.14, it is the first one but the latter is jan. 31, 2006 darrell l.
her's the thing, dvd shrink will pull files off a dvd (and you can then view them on your pc) but has no software for writing dvd's-- instaed it looks for nero's dvd writing software and if you don't have it it tells you to install nero. be advised, home burned dvd's in my experience work pretty well on most nachines but they don't last very long. after a few months they get funky and unplayable. --fj
have a look here if your problem is copy protection. please be aware that copying is only legal for personal backup to preserve originals.
i'm just trying to make back-up copies because the boys will mess the origionals up. i,ll try the url you sent me. thanks a lot.
could be the downfall for copying dvd movies as well. newer dvd burners, dvd players, audio players, and television sets are all being manufactured that will be able to detect burned illegal copies and won't play them. you either will get nada, zip, zero on screen or silence in an audio player or you will get a screen saying to put in a new disc because the disc can't be read. before you waste money and time burning dvd's, try one and play it immediately to see what results you get on screen or in an audio player. you may be able to play them on your pc, but nothing else. making copies of anything copyrighted is illegal in the usa...even backup copies. the reason being is that if you can make one copy as a backup you can just as easily make many for pirating. when you consider that even hardware, such as a video or sound card, is copyrighted, there is nothing to stop a hardware maker from charging for newer drivers rather than make them available for free as a download...i think some of these copyright laws make no sense at all and they covered too large a canvas with that sweeping brush they used to paint the law in their haste to protect music and movies. toni
glad to be of help.
