i have a nick in the protective coding on my monitor's screen. its in a really annoying place and often inturrupts my work. the screen is a mitusbishi diamond pro 900u. is there a way to fix this? i know there is a type of chemical you can drop on the casing that turns a small area of plastic into a moldable clay-like material that later hardens as it dries, and products that repair cd's using a chemical. there must be something i can buy that can fix this. does anyone know of such a product? thanks in advance, dave
you can find such at automotive repair part places. but it's ymmv if you'll be happy. bob
still, i don't know what im looking for, and those sales people who work at those places can never answer anything but very simple questions like &quot;what brands of tires do you carry?&quot;, at least thats what its like here. what would i be looking for? keep in mind, this isn't glass im repairing, this is a laminate like protective coating on the glass. ive seen those glass repair kits, and those don't hide damage, they just seal it and keep cracks from spreading, which isn't my problem. also, how unsure are you about this advice? (&quot;ymmv&quot;)
the goop is as you suspect. it will not hide the problem and the visual aspect may still be noticeable. there's no magic here. it's optics... let me dive off into optics for a second and use google if a phrase sounds foriegn. the refraction index of the repair material will not match the underlying material. as there isn't a match, the repair will not be perfect. but it could be better than no repair. i offer this suggestion with the best intent and if you expect a perfect repair, you'll have to keep looking. best of luck, bob
hi dave, i've just read your email re: scratch on your diamond pro 900. i've got a mitsubishi diamond plus 91 with the same problem - an annoying little dent on the screen surface. what's needed is something which dries in the dent to the same refractive index as the surrounding surface material. did you find anything which helped? thanks michael k-s michael.kirk-smith@ntlworld.com
if you want a good result try something thats used to remove scratchs from eyeglasses as that has to be about perfect.years ago i had bad scratches on motorcycle windshield.a guy i knew who worked at grinding and repairing lens gave me a liquid that i used with a buff pad on my drill and it did a perfect job.seen different things on tv since should do same thing.
interesting. have you any product names? i'm in ireland but i could get friends in the usa to send/bring something over. thanks, michael
or
hey have you guys seen the product they sell for repairing scratches in prescription glasses? i have seen it advertised on tv here in the us and think i have seen it for sale in a national drug store chain. dont know if it will work as i have never tried it. just thought i would throw it at you as another option for you to look at.
the product is called &quot;liquid lense&quot;....here is their website, with how to order.............
by the way, the &quot;liquid lense&quot; if ordered via their website, is only $9.98 and shipping is a couple bucks....not the $5.00+ some places charge. i got my shippment for $11.90......... they only ship in the usa at the moment. use the left over for sunglasses, goggles, face masks, your watch case....anything with a scratched surface.
so what's the verdict? i have scratches on the film of my sony e500. i would ate to replace this 22&quot; crt. thanks
i dont know if this would work but its got be a lot cheaper ---- what about the glass filler they advertise for filling in the stone chips on car windscreens ( just a suggestion ) postie
if it is any help i'm of to the usa (florida) next week for a fortnight back on the 12-13 feb if it is any help ???? i could try and get some for you postie
ps at least it saves you postage from usa postie
