ok so i want to get a small laptop with a screen less than 10&quot;. i have a desktop and a 15in hp, but i hate carrying my 15in around because i find it too big. i want something i can fit in my purse and take to school (college) and pop it open at any time; my 15in requires a bag of its own and is a bit heavy. so i have decided to get a net-book. i am just going to use it to surf the net (cough...watch hulu...cough), type some lab reports and essays for class, and run itunes. nothing too power or space consuming. so what should i get. i have looked at several like the asus eee pc, acer aspire, and the hp mini-note but i am not quite sure what to get. here are the things i want: the notebook has to be between 8.9 and 10in, it has to have good screen resolution, good battery life, has to have decent hard drive space (not like 4gb, that's nothing and i do not want to buy more space), be less than $400, and most importantly it must have an intel atom cpu. i would also love it if it runs linux but that's not a must i will change the operating system myself. i know, i know i am asking for too much but there are some that do meet those requirements and i need help choosing which one to get. absolutely any help is welcome!!!!!!!!!!!!! thank you in advance.
hi, 123lali i recently purchased an acer aspire at walmart for $349. this unit has xp, 1 gig of ram and a 120gig hard drive with the 3 cell battery. amazon has the same unit with a160gig hard drive and a 6 cell battery for less than $400. i did a lot of research before buying this unit and i have not been disappointed. very fast, great screen and very functional. let me know if you have any questions,
i have seen the acer. i heard the eeepc is better. have you tried the eeepc? is there a difference?
with all of those reguirements you are pretty much stuck with the acer. but if you raised your &quot;price-cap&quot; things would be different. most of the netbooks with good battery life cost over $430 and even then some aren't even that good. i would try to advoid the acer because of the keyboard and track pad. but a netbook with a good battery and the atom and linux is the acer or an asus. but then the keyboards are sub par. if you want a good keyboard and the atom and a large hard drive then look at the msi wind or the samsung nc 10. cnets review on the msi are out-of-date, so try other sites. but with that strict price cap you will have to settle.
both of those netbooks are really good. i have an asus myself and really like it. there's a good comparison of both at:
go back to your link and read, carefully, the paragraph under &quot;webcam&quot;. it seems to mention a different brand name than asus...maybe a typo and maybe an author's freudian slip.
you could get a dell mini 9 for $250ish and then just put a 16gb sdhc card in the card slot
