any suggestions to any brands or models of either routers or switches that can be used for a personal internal fiber network. i wanted to replace my nic's with the fiber so i can get internal bandwith up to 2gbps for high speed data transfers, remote access with no delay and internal gaming but having problems trying to fine suitable home switches or routers that have these kind of connections. the only kind i see is used to uplink a switch to another switch that's a good distance between the points. i need at least 2 or 3 fiber ports so i can transmit data at high speeds between 2 computers and still utilize a cat5/6 network for gaming consoles such as a ps2/ps3 when it comes out, my 360, etc along with an older computer on the 100mps portion. any suggestions or help would be greatly appreciated. in case if you wanted system specs, the 2 primary machines utilizing these speeds are both amd fx-60 machines with 4gb ddr in both running xp pro and 2 fiber optic network adapters on it's way through shipping for preparation of thise high speed internal network of mine.
i think you are looking at some pretty high end equipment to accomplish what you want to. it seems like over kill to me. i am curious what kind of data transfers you are doing that would require this much bandwidth? and having all this speed inside your house will not help for remote access, as any link outside your house will be much slower. i guess i can't say i have ever researched to find fiber equipment made for home use, so i am not much help there. i only deal with enterprise level equipment which is expensive (although it would accomplish what you are after.) i would also be curious to know how you plan to terminate your fiber when you are done? fiber is difficult to terminate and requires special tools and techniques. unless you are dealing with short distances and can buy pre-made patch cables? i think a quality gb ethernet setup would be a lot more practical and cost effective to use in a home. but maybe other people out there will have more helpful input.
it's not overkill and the remote access is all internal. i don't need to remote access my network or any machine outside my house. the closest thing i can come to is a router thats like $1200-$1400 when i know there has to be some home networking models that can be just as good. even a switch will be suitable and i'll just uplink it to a regular router for firewall capabilities and internet access. the longest fiber wire i have would probably be 100ft maximum since that's more than enough to reach a computer that's the furthest away from the point where my other machines are. i tried cat6 but had some connectivity issues with it through my router so i decided to stick with cat6 for everthing else except 2 machines hooked up through fiber through a switch for blazing internal speeds and uplink to a cat5 router for internet access.
fiber doesn't have a home version (cheaper?) where you can find a few bargains are the 1g networking. i'm just a few projects away from changing out my switch from 10/100 to 10/100/1000. bob
i don;t care about gigabit connections. they got fiber cables and network adapters at decent prices but nothing for the physical networking devices that are low end or mid range. why go with cat6 when fiber is just around the corner. i'd like to see wifi users try to obtain speeds that fiber networking can produce.
no one will argue with you that a fiber network would beat the pants off any wifi network, but that is comparing apples and oranges here. fiber might be around the corner for home use, but i think the reality is, it is not here yet. so unless you are ready to shell out some serious cash, you are probably not going to find a home version of the equipment you are looking for. there is just no demand for it yet, or at least not enough. if you are able to find a low cost solution i would be interested to learn about it though. and if you do find a suitable switch (etc.) how do plan to terminate your fiber runs?
i don't think fiber needs termination since it will run just like ethernet only that category5/6 cables are replaced by fiber network cables and i believe the router or switch that i can find will terminate just like ethernet. i think the question about terminating the fiber would only apply if i hard wire 2 machines directly to each other without any networking devices.
