to be exact. i got a dlink 624 m super g mimi wireless router! and i must say i havent had a problem with it so far. ( i read some of the horror stories in the review. i ain soon to add mine) my problem is. how do i get to share files of the network. i figured out how to share the printer, well first of all let me list the items in my network. i have a compaq presario 6320us and the main computer it is connected to the net ethernetly wired through the dlink 624 m super g mimi wireless next i have a hp pavilion dv4217d laptop. which i have wirelessly connected. it has centrino!!! and i am using the built in wireless b/g adapter. then i have and hp photosmart 2575. which i have connected to the the compaq by way of usb. but i also have it connect by way of ethernet to the router. yah it is a networkable printer. i went through the set up and all of that good stuff of the router. i had a secured network so i have my laptop a network key. i also gave it a ssid i set up the printer and all of that blah blah. i can print from any room with my laptop. now! my problem is that. i wanna connect to the compaq from the hp and vice vera to share files and remotely use the computer. is there any way i can do that. becasuse soon i wanna clean of my hp hard drive and transfer all the files to the compaq. and when i finish preparing the compaq. i wanna transfer all the files back to the compaq. thanks for reading this long essay. ill be anxious for an response.
what operating systems on the computers? the procedures are a little different for xp than for 98 or me.
make sure you have file and print sharing enable.
windows xp home edition sp2
the step-by-step can get pretty lengthy, but i'm going to direct you to a tutorial i wrote on another forum (sorry, but if one exists here i'm not yet aware of it). start with networking fundamentals part 1 and work through part 3.  the basic idea is that you want to make sure your computers are in the same workgroup, and share resources (printers and folders). you'll then be able to browse those shared resources from the other computer. please let me know if this helps!
