dell dimension 3000. dell mobo will not install xp home. is it the mobo or is it the ram memory? these same files will not install. using 2 different known 'good discs'. using 2 different known 'hard drives' the dell diag cd was created and run. no problems found. thank you from new orleans
what are these 5 files for ? which piece of hardware on a dell dimension 3000 would stop / affect / these 5 files? xp home srv pak 2 could not copy these files. this error message comes up, 'to retry press enter' esent.dll, created aug 4, 2004, size 443kb cscdll.dll browseui.dll shdocvw.dll d3d8.dll thank you from new orleans
point to aging cd/dvd drives.
i removed 1 of the 2 sticks of ram. then the optical disc would not read the cd. i tried a 2nd optical dvd but the mobo would not see the optical disc in the bios. then it died and will not come on. i have several pc's to test the parts plus a very good dell that i will use a new hd and the xp install disc on a test install. i will let you know how it worked out. thanks for the quick response. enjoy the rest of your cajun gumbo
ouch. sounds like the old collection of parts is coming home to roost type problem. look around for testing parts on your other donor machines and check the machine for bad caps as well as re-check your jumpers and ide cable scheme. bob ps. in boston, finding a cajun gumbo worthy of that name is rough. must head south soon.
you maybe dealing with several problems or actually dealing with the original problem of why the system was given or let go. all this boils down to resolving all issues. if you're using the dell oem install discs, be sure you have what the dell system was build as from day1 to lessen any hic-ups. further, due to age you can have a worn out mtrbd. and/or dated one that may not accept whatever mish-mash of devices you have to make a system go 100%. the files you're referring to can be a bad read of the install discs, the drive itself or again some device that wasn't part of the install when sold. get the mnaual and review it as well. i use hd wipes to totally remove any past installs and restart from scratch, the os reload. i visit dell and enter the model s/n and see how it was build or typical for that model#. then, if possible similar build to try the install. if the dell discs are not oem or for that model dell, be sure to inspect that side of things. next, assure the mtrbd. itself has no damage as robert mentioned, &quot;bad caps&quot; as a possible issue. next, verify the psu is capable for it to die and not come-on suggest a weak psu or mtrbd. check all that out and get back. alas, older stuff just bites the dust, prepare to move on. tada -----willy
thanks to all. after testing several components it was a flaky mobo. may have got too hot. enjoy the rest of your cajun jambalaya
