my pc: hp pavilion media center m7750n athlon 64 x2 (w) 5000+ 2.6 ghz 4 gb ddr2 ram 400 gb sata 7200rpm hd running vista i purchased a hp 1tb personal media drive to use in the removable drive bay about 1 month ago. well the drive is loud and rather annoying to say the least. i have one free internal 3.5&quot; bay available. is there any preference (internal or external) with regards to speed, noise and performance if i wanted to replace the noisy drive? my use for the drive would be to store all my media and the drive would be used frequently as i stream my media to my ps3. any good brands to use? thanks in advance
see  hp's link at
so i would be more inclined to purchase a hd.
seems like you are done?
i was hoping to get some feedback on whether or not there was any preferrence to an internal or an external hd with regards to speed, noise, etc. i was also looking for help in picking a hd brand. thanks.
you are now asking the ford or chevy, which is better question. you can find 1,000+ long posts on that so let's not do that again. given we can control the noise and speed can be the same in or out with sata that's a tossup too. why not get what you like? bob
thanks anyways.
internal disk is faster than external, and apparently they are more reliable (few posts about failing internal disks in our storage forum, hundreds of posts about failing external ones). for sound level: why not try? get the disk out, put in your pc and compare. as you already have bought a hard disk, why ask about a brand for another one? do you happen to know what brand hp put into their case? i don't think they make their own. well, i know. you need a second and third hard disk to backup your first. that's a smart idea! many of our members don't backup and lose everything on their external. kees
to have you think about the question. given the ford vs. chevy nature of the products, how would we choose? i still like internals for the very simple reason they last longer because: a. it's more protected. b. people tend to not drop a pc tower. c. they turn it off to move it. d. all of the above. c. all of the above and more. e. none of the above. i hope you see the chevy vs. ford issue here. bob
that is my impression as to one the purposes that message boards serve. i might just go get a toyota then.
today it might be toyota vs honda vs nissan? so much for cadillac.
just to be green!
