i've been working with gaining space on my hard drive, i had 3 partitions: primary (220 gb) backup (around 8 gb) empty (1 gb or something) now, i've deleted the empty one and shrunk the backup one (it was vista and i have 7 now), but i can't extend the primary partition in to the unallocated space. the problem might be that the backup partition is &quot;in between&quot; the primary and unallocated areas. is there a way i can fix this? by the way, i already know about the diskmgmt thing, that's what i've been using. feel free to ask for clarification. thank's for your support, deven p.s. can i upload pictures to this, or is that not allowed?
generally speaking you can't change a partition if it's the one you're booting from. if i needed to do it right now....i'd use acronis disk director. you usually get the sw, load the program and create a bootable cd that allows you to modify the primary bootable partition and the other partitions, if any. question is....why do you want to do this ? before going further....have you backed up your data ? vapcmd
1gb is nothing. why not just extend the backup?
i've shrunk the backup drive since it wasn't in use. now it's more than just a measly little gigabyte and a half. thank's for the concern, though.
thank's for your input. and to answer your questions: &quot;question is....why do you want to do this ?&quot; for two reasons. 1. i've made more space than a gigabyte free since i've shrunk the backup partition because wasn't in use. 2. i'm paranoid about having as much free space as i can manage without having to skim down on progams and stuff too much. you'd probably be amazed at some of the things i use on my laptop(s). &quot;before going further....have you backed up your data ?&quot; not yet, but i'm about to. thanks for your concern. i guess that i'm going to have to put the space-getting on hold for now, since the wireless internet capabilities have recently given out on me. that's why i took so long to respond. i typed this on my other laptop. thanks for all the help, deven
once you've decided you have a few backups and a few recovery plans, you could use gparted to push the partitions around and extend them. this is not an offer to write the tutorial here. this is your data and your choice. when you do this, it's never a sure thing and this has confused folk new to playing with partitions. it's safer to juggle sticks of dynamite. bob
