i am running winxp prof and have sp2 installed. i purchased a belkin 802.11g wireless card for the desktop but it is not recognized as a device. i tried to search for new hardware and no luck. can this be a sp2 problem? i know the slots are working because it will recognize other cards. (nic and sound card). i also know the wireless card works because i installed in another machine and it detected. the only thing was the 2nd machine was a dell without sp2 installed. any help would be appreciated.
&quot;i tried to search for new hardware and no luck. can this be a sp2 problem?&quot; i'm used to installed drivers for such things. your post didn't tell, but let me share that dell preloads some drivers so you don't have to. a stock install of xp will not have the drivers. bob
thanks bob. the machine i'm having problems with is not a dell but just a generic machine. i have the disk with the drivers and they are installed on the generic machine. it seems like the pc doesn't even see the card.
&quot;generic machines&quot; may use a motherboard with a chipset that microsoft may run on but you need to have latest bios and a motherboard driver package before cards or usb things work properly. your post didn't share the information so i can't tell if this is the issue. bob
the motherboad has vb-601 on it and on the corner there is a label which has mi413s. the bios is award modular bios 4.51pg. it says verison: mi413 award plug and play bios extension v1.0a
if this is a bx based board (only you will know) then this google...  seems to agree, the issue can be.. 1. you need the latest bios. 2. you need to &quot;reset configuration data&quot; in the bios. 3. you try another pci slot since... the one next the agp can be ... problematic. 4. the card is just incompatible with this board. 5. someone disabled the irq pnp features in the os. i offer this since i lost a day over that. the owner was thinking dos days where irqs couldn't be shared. bob
this info doesn't give us a clue about the age of the system. what processor is in it, how old is it?
the pc is probably from 1999 or so. i got it from a friend and put a pentium iii 500mhz processor and it has 768 of ram. i tried all the pci slots and also verified the pnp option in the cmos is enabled. i flashed the bios using the mi413 one from this site:  . i also uninstalled sp2 and reinstalled xp without any luck.
it would be amazing to expect owners to exchange cards, do such gyrations on drivers and more. you should try another card. bob
i have a dell d610 running win xp2. the wireless card is a dell 1470. i pulled the card and installed in another d610 and have wireless internet on that machine.i then took the good card and installed it in the 1st d610. no wireless internet. i plugged in an ethernet cable to get internet. no problem. i reformatted the hard drive ,did a fresh install,checked the bios and upgraded to a06 and still no wireless. any thoughts on this problem?
digging up a 5 year old post doesn't give you the right exposure. try a new post with the story and details.
new post completed on nov.4th 9:04am thanks
