my external hard disk is virus affected and i can't access it using windows..but i can access it using ubuntu...but some of the files (movies) in it can't be copied to my computer using ubuntu,especially large files...small files are getting copied..while copying large files the speed of copying get reduced slowly from 10mb/s to 1-2mb/s and finally the process get stuck...and a dialogue box appear with the writing &quot;an error occured while copying file&quot;...i haven't installed ubuntu in my system.. i am using it from a dvd..so can anyone help me to solve this problem?
the drive is partitioned and formatted. if you're using fat32 on the system, you'll experience what you're seeing. there are file size limits as well as folder limits. you said the external drive is virus &quot;affected&quot; but i'm not sure what that means. an external drive cannot run virus code on its own. it can contain files with virus code if that's what you mean. it can also have damaged files so maybe you can explain the symptoms that led to your conclusion. in any event, you might be able to copy the files to another external drive rather than to your pc drive if you can come up with such. as well, your ubuntu might be able to burn files to either an image or to dvd if it will allow disk swapping.
my current os is windows 7..when i plug my external hard disk in my compter,my computer couldn't load the drive...the symbol of the external hard disk is appearing in &quot;my computer&quot;..but i can't access it..and windows tell me to fomat my hard disk to make it funtioning..but i can access it in ubuntu..but can't copy files....
in the post steven offered, that still applies if you have true corrupted files and the file limits are still imposed. ubuntu offers you the chance but if the files over the fat32 limits then really you've gone as far as you can go. understand, you have a hosed ext. drive that win7 sees as corrupted fat structure and ubuntu sees that too it does use the same fat32 structure or similar but very large files usually cause a problem above 4gb, thus a limit. on top of that you still have some corruption which adds to the issue. you may want to try some &quot;recovery s/w&quot; that hopefully can repair the corruption and/or allow under win7 to retrieve data. this all takes time, so don't be surprised if this is a long process. next time, store precious data in multiple media as ext. drives should be considered temporary at best.  tada -----willy
thank you friend....
