hello, i just wired each room with 3 cat5e cables (2 for internet and the other cat5e cable to wire 2 telephone lines), 2 rg6 cables. all this wire terminates in one location in the basement where i am going to make all my connections. i thought i would wire all my cat5e connections to a patch panel, but that does not seems to be all that i need to make all the connections work. do i need a switch? i take my connection out of the modem an run it into the switch? managed/unmanaged switch...i assume unmannaged. i will be connection to comcast internet...something else i need? for cable, i just run my source signal into a splitter and then make all my connections to the other end of the splitter? something else i should consider?
a router and maybe a switch. your modem connects to a router. the router has two basic functions. one is that it acts as a hardware firewall and the other is that it can pass out ip addresses to connected devices. if you have more devices than your router has ports, you connect a switch to the router. the switch can usually be of the un-managed type unless you have a special need such as to dedicate a certain amount of bandwidth to some device each device must connect to it's own port. you cannot wire any of them together if that's what you mean by a splitter. no splitting allowed. you did say something about telephone lines. are these standard telephones or do you have bundled phone service on your cable? otherwise, these have nothing to do with your network. as for a patch panel, you really don't need one unless you're using the stiffer interior wall type ethernet cable for the house wiring. hope this helps but feel free to post more about your objective.
hey thanks... ok if i connect a switch to a router, is that connected with a crossover cable or just a standard cable? same with the punch panel to the switch...standard or crossover cable? the splitters will be used for rg6 cable splitting and i was asking is this the way to route the cable the signal. i have no telephone service yet, and not sure i will, but i was going to use 4 wires of one cat5 cable to wire one phone connection and the other 4 wires of the cat5 cable for the other phone line. similarly i was going to use a 66 panel to wire all the phone lines.
since most gear today is auto-mdx i rarely use a cross over. get straight cables for now. bob
i'm thinking that cat5 isn't going to fit your 66 panel as the wire may be too thin. it may be to small a gauge. i'd think you'd need a 110 punch block or will need to use proper phone cable. i've never mixed them. i did my own home with 66 block but i have pots service. as for your cable splitter, i presume you're considering voice, data and tv signals. i'll leave this question to the cable company. bob gave the answer about crossover cables. if your stuff is fairly new, it will detect and configure the up/down link. you'll know fairly quickly if something isn't right. good luck.
well, i read that you could use cat5 cable for phone wire, but i guess that maybe there are complications with using, i guess i will have to find out. one last question. i wanted to place the router (wireless) between the upstairs and the downstairs. this is before i learned that i needed a router and a switch. can i connect a wireless router somewhere in the house in addition to the router that i would have with my switch down in the basement? seems that the basement is not the best of places to have the wireless positioned. or maybe i should run a wire from from the wireless router to the basement to connect to the switch and all my other connections. some other options?
put the router upstairs and just run a wire to it from the modem. don't put a switch between the modem and router. the switch is only to add additional ports beyond what the router provides. if you need more wireless signal coverage you ad an additional access point (ap) which can actually be a router with the dhcp disabled. you don't want two routers trying to hand out addresses. there is information about that in the forum sticky thread.
just a small comment, unless you really need all those jacks active in each room you can use a data jack as a phone jack. the phone cables which use a small 6 pin connector will work just fine in the 8 pin data jacks. you of course must connect the other end to a phone cable also. only the center 4 pin line up 3,4,5,6 line up with 2,3,4,5. this is the standard phone cable where the outer 2 pins are not used.
