will ram with different timings work together? i currently have 2gb of ddr2 800 corsair cm2x1024-6400c4 g which has lower timings then the stuff of that model im finding on newegg and i want to add some more ram. will it work together still? also would it be worth going to ddr3 1333 or just stick with the ddr2 800 i have? is there even a notice difference?
some manufacturers will list those that have been qualified. the next best option might be to visit such as crucial dot com and run your mb through their adviser. i also believe corsair has similar on their site. once you've found compatible ram and even though the timing might not be identical, your bios will configure the memory to operate at the slowest speed of any of the modules. if you do any of these things, you will want to make sure you don't try to push things beyond published capability.
you need your manual or docs for true answers. it will clearly state what it needs. you mention ddr2 and ddr3 type ram and that normally can't be used/installed in the same mtrbd. at the same time unless it can. one or the other in most cases. plus, you wish fast or slower ram of the same type(ddr2?) maybe, then it will default to the slower ram speed provided its not too vastly different. when it comes to ram, stick with the same specs all the way around and if possible the same brand even brought at the same time for best match. use  for help as well. post your exact specs or details, for more detailed answer. you lack that and thus so will answers, please provide. tada -----willy
ddr3 isn't usually one of them. you could post your system specs for additional comment, check your system docs or try one of the ram vendor sites...crucial.com, corsair.com, etc. vapcmd
some manufacturers will list those that have been qualified . the next best option might be to visit such as crucial dot com and run your mb through their adviser . i also believe corsair has similar on their site . once you've found compatible ram and even though the timing might not be identical , your bios will configure the memory to operate at the slowest speed of any of the modules . if you do any of these things , you will want to make sure you don't try to push things beyond published capability .
