i have a sony computer with a windows xp operating system. i have a lexmark z52 printer which is giving me problems. lexmark has been very good and patiently walked me through everything in the book to get it working properly again including sending me a new cartridge, but without any success. the print-out is very poor quality, blurred in certain parts with certain letters distorted only when printing from the word processor. if i print from the internet (for instance if i printed out this page) the printer works fine. this makes me think that it is a microsoft word problem, could this be the cause and if so how do i fix it please?
if you have the cd for ms office, you could try an un-install and re-install of office but that sound a bit drastic so... a few checks... 1) go to  (the pc-cillin people- so it's a trusted site) and run their free virus scan (housecall) - it checks for everything, not just viruses - it will even tell you if there is a windows update you haven't done. this will also check for spyware, greyware, malware etc. etc. this is always first port of call for unusual problems - bugs can cause all sorts of strange things. 2) do a scandisk (chkdsk) or whatever xp uses for it's re-boot disk check. 3) are you fully up-to-date with windows update and.... office update...? if not, run both... there may be a glitch that they now have a patch for. 4) try using a different font... instead of times new roman which is usually the ms-word default font. if this prints ok, you may have a bad times new roman font so remove it and re-install it with a good copy (ask a friend for a copy if you can't get at one on a cd). or does xp have a font repair program, i can't remember. 5) i'm guessing that lexmark have already told you to download their new z52 drivers for xp...?  there are 2 driver here and you will probably need both. ... hope this helps or at least eliminates a few lines of enquiry. please let us all know how you get on.
wow! thank you very much skycatcher for taking the time to give me such a detailed reply. you have certainly given me enough new things to try. i will let you know how i get on. thanks again, patty.
well, success!! i finally solved my printer problems with your help. i followed all the instructions you gave me, virus scan, scandisk check, windows and office update, downloaded a new driver, gave my printer a good clean, then installed a new cartridge and for the first time in months i did not get the error message ''trouble communicating with the printer'' it printed beautifully! thank you so much for your help, (its also worked wonders for my stomach which clenched in a tight knot every time i attempted to print something out) good work.
sorry, i got your name wrong in my last post i tried to get it back to change it but too late...
being a keep paraglider pilot, i do a lot of skywatching as well glad it's all ok bye...
