hi all, i just moved house and re-setup my computer (a dell xps t600r piii, 512mb ram, 50gb hd, 19in dell trinitron, nvidia tnt2 64mb video card.) it works fine except for one annoying new problem: the screen now flickers and jumps 75% of the time. periodically it will stop for maybe a minute and then it resumes hopping. i never had this problem prior to moving. what might be causing this?
have you checked the refresh rate you have the drive set for? don't know the version of windows so i can't tell you how to do it, but generally you go to control panel/display and under settings/advanced/adapter you can see the refresh, it must be 70hz or higher to avoid flicker. have you tried pulling it away from the wall, maybe put it on the floor for a test a few feet from where it is now, and see if it makes a difference, could be power cables in the wall creating problem (seen this once).
don't take anything for granted and recheck all setting and cabling. next try moving the monitor or system to a different location and outlet. if it settles down then, you have &quot;rf outside interference&quot; of some sort. last, its possible some damage may have been done during the move and its starting to fail. if under warranty, use it don't mention the move. ;0 good luck -----willy
don't forget to check and see if you have the latest drivers from the manufacturer. i have a 128mb nvidia (sp?) and i also had a similiar problem. i adjusted the refresh rate and downloaded the latest drivers and it's working fine now.
also you might reseat the video card to be sure it is properly in its slot.
thanks for all your replies, folks:) i'll try moving the pc to a new location and see if that helps re: mag interference jmarchi and willy. i've checked the plugs to make sure there's nothing disconnected. but the suggestion of reseating the video card is a good one, thanks islander. interestingly, denjones, i upped the refresh to 85mhz and it solved the prob for about a day and then i experience some more flickering, though not as often...
not sure what type of monitor, bit if is a flat lcd your issue may be the inverter board
