i recently had to send my laptop into dell for repairs. well, dell decided that my laptop was damaged beyond repair and sent me a completely different one, along with the harddrive from my old laptop. i've tried putting the old harddrive into the new laptop, but i just keep getting error messages. can anyone tell me if it is possible to retrieve my files from the old harddrive and if so how. also, please don't refer me to dell. they have already made it clear that it's my problem , not theirs. thanks.
get an external usb-2 case for the hard drive. here  wayne (ibm freak - 6) click here to see the cnet faces, learn a little about analog and digital data, internet connections, spyware removal, and download free software. my mini-schnauzer is smarter than your honor student.
google for this product(adapter) called ada-2020. found at  and others. used for usb 2.0 to sata/ide connections. this adapter will allow you to access the old laptop drive and many others should the need arise. pricing is decent and is far more flexible than a simple usb case, though that will work. good luck tada -----willy
seems pretty nice to me -- obviously you've had some grief along the way, but i'd definitely agree, if dell gave you a new laptop, they've delivered completely on any concept of warranty. i think the suggestions above are good, but... if the reason the laptop went for repairs was a faulty hard drive, you may need more heroic measures for data recovery (which are never described as inexpensive). i'm inferring there's useful data that aren't backed up? if it's just your applications and configuration you want restored, you'll be quicker and better to start from scratch.
as outlined in the thread above i have hung the old hard drive in an enclosure on a usb port and can see the folders just fine, but when i try to open the folders i need (my documents, application data) it gives me a permissions error. how do i get past it? i have the username and password the files were created under, but don't know where to enter them.
google these xp take ownership vista take ownership
