[img]  [/img] this morning i turned on my pc, all of a suddend i hear a horrifying roaring noise coming out of my pc chasis: eeeeeeeerrrrrrrrrrrr faaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa huuuummm_huuuummm_huuummmm_huuummmm after a while, i noticed the noise is starting to fade away more and more as seconds passes by, when windows finished booting, i could barely hear it, after 5 mins the noise is completely gone. but i'm so very worried. i live in hong kong, it's been raining all week and there are alot of mouisures in the air, not to mention alot of flies and insects flying around, and i didn't turn on my pc for at least 3 days, so i was wondering if any of the above faactors cause this noise, or if it's something much worst. i checked my 2 chasis fans, they're spinning, i'm sure there's nothing clogging them though, that's all i know and so my main concerns are: - what are the noises? -are the electricity frying my motherboard? -if a bug got insde my pc and i turn my pc on, will the whole pc fry up? -there was a thunder strike this morning, but i turned on my pc after the thunder strike has ended, but still, does this have to do with anything? please answer all my question! this is an emergency, please help me, please i beg you please help me! t_t thanks for the help.
sounds like the bearings in one of the fans has gone try stopping 1 fan and see if it goes away then trie the other if so just replace the fan
what do you mean when you say: &quot;bearings in one of the fans has gone try&quot; i didn't understand what you just said, so would you please be so kind as to explain a little bit more? and you also advise me to stop one of the fans or something, i don't quite understand that either, so please explain more. thanks for all the help t_t
i think what he was trying to say is... you have several fans in your case. you could have one or two chassis fans, a fan for the cpu, and one or two in the power supply. what you are describing is a sign that the bearings in a fan are broken. try uplugging one fan at a time(while the computer is off), and boot the computer. if the noise remains, shut down the computer, plug the disconnected fan back up. disconnect another fan and retry. if you are to do this with your cpu fan, do not boot up for long as it can overheat your cpu. it may also be that you have a cable that is touching the fan blades (heard the same sound from that situation before) hope this helps!
i would say to leave the computer off in a storm just incase, but you should check inside the computer for dust. try to get as much dust out of the computer as you can, an air can is really good for this. dust can heat up the computer a lot but acting like a blanket on the motherboard. it can also get on wires and create a connection to make a spark and fry the motherboard.
already asked (verbatim) and answered on 30th may 2006!!! that's quite a long morning by anyone's clock!  gb.
