so this is the problem i've been using this wd 2 terrabyte external disk on my macbook pro for 2 years and have more than 1000 giga bytes in it with movies pics and stuff that i cant delete... when i try to open it and use it on my pc(windows 7) it brings up the &quot;you need to format the disk before opening it&quot; message and i tried it back on mac book thinking it has a virus or smth and id opened like always with no problems but now on my pc ... help pls... i tried the cmd &quot;chkdsk x: /f/r&quot; it says its a raw disk and cant help... any help would be appreciated
when i go to computer menage disk menagment it says healthy primary pertition and the file syystem is ntfs while my disk is raw
almost all windows pcs can't understand a mac formatted drive. keep in mind that the error message is asked about many thousand times so did you read a few prior discussions? bob
i did spent the last day trying to find a solution but this is the thing... i have a mac and whateever i need i can access from there so all i need is not to delete all the data... and i am trying to intsall win 8 on my pc and i want to use my hdd to back everything up i have a lot of stuff in here. ..
there are too many issues here. the first is that you'll have the same issue later since windows can't understand the apple drive format. yes there is software to add this and yes we could boot a live linux cd to copy files over but this ignores the biggest issue of them all. ready? the biggest issue is this is not a backup. it's a copy. the forums are full of folk that &quot;backed up&quot; onto one lone drive and then something happened. this is not backup. i'm going to stop writing and let that sink in and change the subject. -&gt; ok how would i tackle this without adding an apple file system driver? many ways. 1. i'd get some usb memory stick to copy files on and then on the apple copy those to the hdd. 2. i'd use my dropbox or google drive to save files and then on the apple copy those to the hdd. bob
i was wondering if i could install windows 8 without losing anything.like in a new drive or something is that possible
now that we covered the issues of backup we don't need to cover that again. windows 8 would cost far more than a memory stick or the dropbox or google drive solution but your choice here. bob
