hi everyone, after upgrading my home network i've been struggling to make sure all wired devices actually take advantage of gigabit connection. any advice will be much appreciated. so first off, my setup: cable modem (22 mbit/s) - linksys ea3500 wi-fi gigabit router - in-wall cables - linksys se2500 gigabit switch pc with gigabit ethernet is connected to router, while in another room i have ps3 and xbox hooked up to the switch. i checked that pc and ps3 use gigabit, however simple data transer over the network yields 7,5 mb/s, which is somewhat below fast ethernet standard and nowhere near gigabit transfer speeds. now i know that theoretical speeds are just a specification, but i had hoped i would get faster that the slower standard i had been on before. and at this speed i know it's not the hdd that is slowning things down as it would be at least 50-150 mb/s for sata drive. i am somehow not convinced that there isn't a bootleneck somewhere, but i can't pinpoint it. i did check all the status lights on switch and made sure the settings are right on any device that is configurable, i am unable however to check if router sends out gigabit signal. any ideas?
if you are copying files with windows explorer to/from some other pc or nas, such speeds you noted are normal even with a gigabit network. why is well discussed so i'll suggest you try other speed tests. a common gaffe is home made cables. folk always get the pairs wrong and some are so upset about that that they'll stamp their feet and insist the pairs are 1-2, 2-3, 3-4, 5-6 and 7-8. bob
i just downloaded a 1gb file from pc to ps3, timed it and did the math. i know it's not very scientific, but i couldn't find any software that would map the network and test speeds in my configuration. funny thing is, ps3 media server running on my pc reports reaching speeds of 100 mb/s while streaming over the network. not sure how reliable that is. so as you can see, i'm getting mixed signals here. i could theoritcally hook up my laptop on the far end of the network, but it doesn't support gigabit ethernet so i'm confused as how to test it all.
as long as you don't have gigabit adapters you can't really test it. but for speed tests i have use ftp or similar tests like you find on google. bob
as mr. proffit stated, matching hardware (gigabit). a docsis 3 modem, gigabit router and adapters, n wireless capability in laptop and cat-6 cables for hardwire hook up (s) and maybe result change and of course bandwidth.anything in the system (hardwire) that is not gigabit capable will default system back to 10/100
ok, i guess the mystery is solved, today i connected ps3 straight to the wall instead of gigabit switch. and yes, that was my bottleneck. i had forced ps3 to connect at gigabit speed and this time it said the ethernet cable is not connected, so in other words i won't be getting gigabit speeds without tearing my house apart to upgrade cabling. or using a really long cable between the rooms, but that is far from neat. thanks for your help, guys.
