i get around computers pretty well but i'm a wireless networking newbie. and after plenty of research and phone calls to tech support, i'm stumped. i just bought a new hp pavilion dv9700t. i also bought the d-link dir-655 to connect to my five-year-old custom-built desktop pc. i have cable internet through a motorola surfboard modem. so i popped in the cd and ran the setup wizard. everything seemed to go fine - the wizard detected all my connection, didn't even ask me any questions, and i was good to go. but i noticed right away that my internet connection was significantly slower. usable, but about 80% slower than normal (i tested it). so i removed the router from the equation and just hooked up the desktop pc to the cable modem. the internet speed was back to normal. i reconnected the router and reset it. updated the firmware. read the manual, visited online support, and mess with every setting i could think of. still, the connection was slow. (i should mention at this point that both the desktop pc and pavilion had similarly slow speeds through the router.) i confirmed with my cable company that it wasn't a setting on their end that needed adjusting. then i called d-link. on the online configuration tool, they had me go under the setup tab, then to manual internet connection setup, then entering 4.2.2.2 in the primary dns server box and 4.2.2.3 in the secondary dns server box. (they tried to explain what this meant but i didn't catch it.) this caused me to lose my internet connection entirely. after a couple more calls to d-link in which they had me do little else besides cloning my pc's mac address a couple of times and unplugging/replugging my modem and router, i still had no internet connection. so they told me to return the router for a new one. then, just for the hell of it, i rebooted and got my internet connection back, although it is still slow. so what can i do? is it really defective, or is there something else to adjust? i have read where this router just doesn't work for some people, but i assumed that to mean it didn't work at all. any advice is great as i would prefer not to send this back if at all possible.
sorry, but a few details are missing in your post so i'll just offer a common fix.
i guess that's an option. but it doesn't really solve the problem. what details am i missing? i'll fill in the blanks if i can.
and is it setup per our forum sticky. some leave it on open wifi connections or wep and their network is pirated away by neighbors. also there are issues with p2p software and speed so i won't be helping on that area here as it's all about the sofware used (not in the posts) as well as how such speed was measured. hope there's something that can be done. bob
it was late last night and i didn't think to look over forum rules. i think my router setup is per the forum sticky, if i'm interpreting it correctly. regardless, i did it exactly as d-link's setup cd instructed me to. here it is: coaxial cable from wall to cable modem. ethernet cable from desktop pc to lan port 1 on the router. another ethernet cable from &quot;internet&quot; port on router back to cable modem. i would show you a diagram but i can't find one on d-link's support site. to answer your other questions: - i don't think anyone is pirating the connection. i've checked this numerous times. - i have reset the router many times so the settings are back to default, but i had set it to wpa-2 and secured the connection and it did not help. - i have the most current firmware for the router. - as for speed, normally my download speed runs between 5,000-6,000 kb/s but once the router is connected, that drops to around 1,200 kb/s on both the wired desktop pc and the wireless notebook. i've measured it through the speed tests at broadbandreports.com. i think that covers everything from the sticky...let me know if i can provide more information. thanks.
disable the wifi so we're sure. the issue we know of can not be detected with any ease by most owners but setting it up per the forum sticky does cure that issue. for now. disable it. if it's still bad, return for some other model.
that the firewall or the content filtering is slowing things down. i know he said he's all wired, do disabling the radio will help. rick
no clear feedback on the exact router settings. no exact feedback if they are using some static settings, and so on. i've been slow to ask for this since some take it badly if you pressure them to engage in their discussion. this is not that easy for some to find out the answers to simple questions (for those that setup networks daily) but i try to go with simple things to shut out the more common issues (such as the wifi hijacking issue.) bob
but there are so many settings in the online configuration and i'm new enough at this that i don't have a good sense of what's important and what isn't, or even what some of these settings do. so ask me what you need to know and i'll do my best to answer. i've tried to adjust various settings (too many to list) and nothing has caused any improvement. right now the router has all its default settings because late last night i reset it per instructions from d-link tech support. i have zone alarm on my desktop pc and comodo on my notebook and the internet speed through the router is the same on both. i have no indication (via error messages, popups, etc.) that the firewall is the issue. but i will check those settings and turn off the wi-fi tonight and see if that helps.
on wireless routers we usually update the firmware. some automatic updates don't work.  normally we broadcast ssid use wpa security use nothing else. do not use mac addresses. since you're not using the wireless part, then turn it off. check your firewall settings and turn them off. also turn off any of the filtering devices in the d-link router. setup should look like wall &gt; cable modem/router &gt; d-link router &gt; wired/wireless i don't know if there's some type of filter in the d-link that will limit usage. rick
i have tried everything you've suggested, individually and in various combinations. firmware is current. broadcasting in ssid. wpa security. turned off wi-fi. adjusted firewall settings. turned off firewall. turned on wi-fi but set it to a b/g signal instead of n. router setup is correct. made sure no d-link filters were on, as far as i could tell. and the results on my wired desktop pc were exactly the same: about 80% lower than normal. so unless anybody has anything else i should try, my question becomes: is there any way to know whether the dir-655 router simply won't work with my modem vs. just having a bad router that needs to be replaced and should work fine under normal circumstances?
even my dated di 524 didn't suffer like that. i do not have you model to look over at home, office or lab. i will share i changed the home to a buffalo running openwrt because my still nice wpnt-834 would lock up monthly. i'll probably gift that out and find another router (that will run openwrt.) bob
i was wondering if you managed to resolve this problem? while i noticed these posts are from 2008, i just purchased the same router... it's doing the exact same thing. i did a firmware upgrade via the router before i started using it, but will attempt a manual download of the latest showing 1/28/2010 (well after this post) after a rest to see if that aids. clearly it's frustrating since the modem works fine directly. as for shutting off the wireless, that's not an option. even though i prefer a wired network, i still have devices i like to roam around the house and building untethered. i only upgraded my current router for the 10/100/1000 hope there was a solution. thanks
the 834 was gifted and a newer wnr2000 is now running for so long i've forgotten how long it was since the power was lost to it. bob
i'm sorry, i thought the original problem was the d-link dir-655 router. have you got that one working properly?
you have to reply up higher. as to the 655, unless they try it per this forum's suggestions i doubt it was resolved. i've seen this problem and if the settings we suggest don't work we swap out the router. i'm unsure why some folk dig it their heels at that suggestion. very strange. bob
i believe i replied to the wrong individual (below) in this discussion, however, my question was whether the problem for the d-link dir-655 router has been solved? i too am having the same problems. while i have not tried manually downloading the latest firmware which appears to be 1/28/2010... well pas thist post date (i will), i just thought i'd ask now (before i get home to test this option out) and since i did not see a resolution or &quot;i got it&quot;. thanks
has limits to the depth of the discussion. make a new post or reply up to for replies. yes i have fixed a few 655s. either with the settings noted in this forum's sticky or by sending it back for another. i'm unsure why this answer is not acceptable to some. could you tell why? bob
&quot;i have not tried manually downloading the latest firmware&quot; that is one of the items covered in this forum's sticky. and has helped many times. but here's the deal. why would we not use the ideas and methods that has worked so often? and if we find it doesn't work why would would keep a cranky router? bob
well, by manually downloading the firmware and manually uploading it to the router, that made some differences.  technical support and information latest firmware as of: download
12 is typical of the internet connection speeds. if you get 12 megabits per second from the internet, you're doing great. bob
i've never received anything above 8mbps and that is tops. i just had a conversation with comcast this morning to vent a little. it's frustrating that no matter where i've lived, i've never gotten what i pay for. and of course, they have no problem taking payment for no or lack of service. i guess i can't complain to much, at least it's fast enough to stream hd movies to my tv. that's the big deal. then again, if rush hour traffic hits in my building then i'll end up with a butt load of buffers.
that speed is typically all over the map but if there is a lesson about connections over wifi is to get wired if you want the best possible speeds. bob
i totally agree. that's why i upgraded the router for a gigabit wired connection. but, the wireless is essential for remote services like our phones, pods, laptops, guests that are not near the wall, etc. wireless is totally convenient, but i opt for wired as well whenever possible. all my desktops are wired, my tv is wired, my bd player is wired, etc. that alone makes streaming movies and music through our new samsung products and dlna products a dream, 8mbps or 12 and gigabit if local. clearly 12mbps would be better (especially during peak traffic hours).
i found that when an iphone or other things are in the brew, the shared airspace may pull back to 802.11b speeds. to fix this i move the router to 802.11g only mode and if i need a wifi link to a hdtv set i may even use a second dedicated wifi router as a wap. we discuss that in the top posts of this forum. new idea. set the router to 802.11g only. bob
that makes perfect sense. while i did make multiple adjustments to the router (so i'm not 100% what fixed it)... we do have all the portables and since they are not n compatible, the weaker of the link is probably tuggin' on the chain. setting that to b and g only probably did make the difference. well, if i can transfer the big things fast over the lan then i'll be happy and get at least 8mpbs or much more than the sad 1.2mpbs for net. thanks for the org post and hope all this helps out any newcomers.
i'll have to setup my second (old perfectly working 10/100 router) as a wifi ap so the speeds don't fight. great suggestion.
i have the same problem. i rma'd mine and the new one is exactly the same. speed test with old d-link router(di-604):  speed test with new d-link dir-655:  actually had a tech guy look at it and he can't explain it. he said the router is defective. i'm just going to send it back and go with something i can put dd-wrt on.
