it's been suggested that i should add ram to my pc. i currently have 1gb ddr2 sdram at 533mhz as purchased. other specs listed below. mfr says add 1gb minimum or more to give me 2 or 3gb total. supposedly it's an easy install for even a novice user, just open box, place the extra ram where it fits inside and make connections all per instructions they provide. some questions: 1) after that install, does pc need a complete os and s/w reinstall? 2) since i've never had any problems with slowness, crashes, apps not performing correctly, etc. -- will adding ram give me any tangible benefits, ones i may notice, other than making my wallet slimmer? rarely, a few times in 2 years it's occurred -- when working in psp for hours making lots of edits on lots of images -- the app froze-up. an expert told me just reboot because the &quot;cache&quot; was likely full and reboot would empty the cache and allow me to continue, and this worked. 3) is that &quot;full cache&quot; related to my amount of ram? i'm not sure why this has been suggested other than to -- sell me more stuff, my ram capacity is &quot;not up to current new pc level&quot;(i see new ones with 2, 3 or 4 gb as standard), and i've heard that 1gb is just not enough for my uses. image editing, video, audio, dvd and cd editing and creation(no hours-long video encoding sessions). 4) wouldn't i have noticed by now if my ram was lacking? 5) what are usual indicators of needing more ram? (like #3 above?) doing analog video capture i don't rely on pc processing power like with just a capture-card; i have a 3rd-party hardware/software combo connected to pc with usb2.0. dell xps400, pentium d 820(2.8ghz)dualcore, 160gb sata ii 7200rpm hd, windows xp pro mce 2005. hd only 50% full at any time. please advise. thanks, stephen
16 bucks.  if your wallet can handle that....might be worth a shot.
think of ram as your computers gas tank, and the processor is the engine. if you use editing programs for pics and whatnot, this requires a big gas tank, as they are the most memory hogging programs most people use. if you have windows xp i would suggest getting 2 to 3 gigs of ram for the best performance, if vista, get 4 to 5 gigs, and remember you can only use ram that your motherboard supports, i.e. the ram sped you already have, and you also, if getting more than 1 stick of ram have to use the same ram, example: if you have a stick of 1gig ram at 533mhz and want more, only put in another stick exactly the same...and you will notce improvement, yes, 1 gig for xp is not enough for video and stills editing. hope that helps.
ok, so ram pkg to be added should have exact same specs as existing, if i understand. mfr's site showed all size options at 667 speed only, huh. bob's link to kingston offered both 667 and my pc's 533. the part abt adding same stick for stick ram seems easy enough, but i'm confused on these -- questions: a) how do i id what i have, one 1gb stick or two 500mb sticks? someone said that with a dualcore processor it might be 2 500s? b) and kingston tech specs on these says 'modules must be ordered and installed in pairs for dual channel mode'. ?does this mean same as 'dualcore'? if yes, then logical that i would have two 500s and then would add two more? c) a brief yes/no regarding questions 1 & 3 of my first post, please.
pop the cover or side off the tower. first and foremost, blow all the dust out of there! next, locate the ram chips. my dell uses pairs of ram chips. if yours uses one only, buy the exact same size chip and add it to an open slot. if you need to add them in pairs, they need to be matching pairs. my dell can accept 4 chips at once. i am going to install larger chips today after work. if you need to move chips around, be careful snapping them back in, it may take a bit of gentle force to seat them properly. the highest power chip(s) should be in the primary slot(s). the lower power chip(s) should be in the extra slot(s). on my dell, the primary slots have white clips, the extra slots have black clips. make sure that you do not exceed the maximum amount of ram your system can support. if you pull an original chip, it should say what powers it has, mb and mz on the chip label. or, should also be able to see exactly what is in your computer by looking at the original reciept or going to the manufacter's site and entering the seriel number or by looking in my computer, then clicking on view system information (for xp users).
it's dells motherboard so they will know how fast a ram speed you can put in that computer, ram with any faster speed wont be supported by your motherboard, so your ram is limited by your mb, speed wise. how to i.d, your ram, call dell and ask them...if your going to just add ram to your existing ram. if your going to buy all new ram, all you need to know is ram speed supported by your mb, and buy all same. answer to question 1, no. question 3, yes, after you install more ram, windows will also increase your virtual memory and you shouldn't have this problem anymore. now, to have your virtual memory optimized, since windows will increase it, and it may not create 1 continuous block for it, download this tweak guide, and look in the index for the virtual memory optimization, and follow the instructions...good luck  download your o.s.
