every tablet i've seen runs on apple ios or android, or blackberry os etc. i haven't seen one that says it runs on windows 7 and includes ms office mobile. i want compatibility, which my current pda lacks, as its os and office mobile programs are outdated (even though i purchased it just before upgrading my laptop to win 7 and office 2010). if there are no win 7 os tablets, what tablet would best sync seamless with a win7/office2010 laptop? i want my seamless integration back! currently i have to back up my laptop work files, backup my pda work files, then hope activesynch and win mob dev ctr are getting along. then pray. then i usually have to manually update files and replace files that should not have been deleted. then once my work files are on the pda i'm forded to save them under a new name, but then i change them back to their old names. only then will everything be properly synched, a step a few years ago would have taken minutes and i could do every day.
reading  it's for windows phone so the answer is that it won't run on windows 7 (the os.) there are tablets that run windows 7 and you can run office on those. but then that's not &quot;office mobile&quot; is it?  is just one of the handful of windows 7 tablets. before i would consider that i'd pick up one of the new ultrabooks. bob
i appreciate the info. however, i'll have to look into what an ultrabook is. also, i'm thinking of waiting for windows 8. i've read that some win 8 tablets might go on sale in the third quarter of this year. taoskier (otherwise known as bill) ps--office mobile is just a scaled down version of office that came w/my last three hp pdas. however, hp appers to be turning their attention to phones. i thought my first non wifi pda was great, the second even better (with wifi), but the third had little memory or power and, as i see it, it was almost obsolete on arrival.
office mobile has been included on my hp pdas, so wikipedia is wrong if it says w mobile is exclusively for phones.
while i know what that title is, i thought it best to pitch this in that manner so we could move on with the discussion. bob
