hi there, in my apple macbook 13 inch core2 duo laptop, i have a small disc stuck in the drive. i was going to read &quot;roughguide&quot; information provided by my travel agent to look at the maps and the rest. it is on a 8cm disc, which says that it could be used in the mac . i inserted it in my macbook's drive and hoped to succeed. i did not. it is in the slot, it does not engage in any contact and it does not come out whatever method i use. it appears that i will have to open the case to reach the drive to get it out. how do i go about it? help will be appreciated. shafiq
and get them to remove it. before you do that, shut down the laptop and remove the ac power cord. with the cd slot facing down, shake the laptop and see if you can coax the disk into appearing enough for you to grab it with a pair of tweezers. i would not recommend attempting to take this thing apart to get at the optical drive. a quick glance at the instructions that came with your laptop would have told you that only regular sized cd/dvd disks can go into a slot loading optical drive. p
thank you p for your advice. on this occasion i did not follow it . i looked for information where ever i could find it . i found it on the you tube. a clever gentleman had a whole lot of information on a lot of apple laptops. i just looked at his video/commentary a couple of times then left it. then i looked it at the website ifixit.com where i found step by step text with photographs. i went through it a couple of times. the end result was that i decided to do it myself. i have not done a lot of computer work however i have been using them for more years than many. there is no scare factor for me. the only problem i have is that i forget the procedures of very familiar things if i am not using the procedure for a couple of months,it only happened in my early 70s, it is a few years since so i am used to it. so i usually have to learn it afresh.my hands are steady and my brain usually works if a challenge is to be faced. so i went through the video and the text with photographs. i cleared my study table, in some places it had gathered some considerable dust, well the study desk clear and clean with a bed sheet for cover and a couple of screw drivers of the appropriate size i sat down to take on the job. yes ,there was a bit of apprehension as one would experience facing a new situation,but no fear of mortal danger , a foolhardy (silly) belief that i can handle it. i had written the text notes on a piece of paper. i went through it one by one. making sure that i put the small screws in some sensible order so that i do not forget to put them back in the right places. one hour and twenty minutes i got the 3&quot; disc out and i am using the same computer to tell the tale.i guess if i have to do it again half an hour will be enough. thank you for being there, which gives me the confidence that i can seek help when stuck. yours shafiq
i'm impressed. it is a daunting proposition to take apart something as complex and compact as a laptop. well done, glad you have the offending disk extracted p
