i have a dell inspiron 620. last night a power surged messed up my computer. i didn't even realize this until i had sat down to a screen that was displaying &quot;windows is loading files&quot; and a full bar underneath just hanging there. i knew that this meant it had automatically done a startup repair but i wasn't sure why it was hanging. so i rebooted and changed the bios to run from the cd rom first. i put in a windows 7 cd to try and run startup repair from there and rebooted. again it just loaded the &quot;windows is loading files&quot; bar and hanged. at this point i decided to run an unbuntu cd to try and salvage what was on my hardrives before i did a clean wipe and reinstall of windows 7. it displayed the unbuntu splash page and then went blank. after this i noticed that there were sounds coming from inside my computer... here's that uploaded in mp3 form to help give you an idea. (after :23 skip to :58) what is this by user668315214 on soundcloud - create, record and share your sounds for free it makes these same sounds each time i tried to boot, so i figured it was my hard drive causing this. to test that theory, i removed my hardrives and used another one from a different computer that was made around the same time as my other hdds. still, no proper boot, and it made the exact same sounds. all i can think of it being is a mother board issue. what do you all think?
sorry, the correct link for the sound file is here.
you can test the setup by disconnecting the hd entirely, just leave in place. access the bios and be sure that the cd drive is the 1st boot device. i hope your ubuntu is a &quot;live cd version&quot; and then reboot to check status. if the ubuntu boots quickly or it does different than before, report back. if the system boots, then your hd is hosed. if it hangs again at same point, then your mtrbd. could be at fault. of course, any ram or video still is installed, if you reduce or swap them out if status changes to narrow fault. often enough, since you believe that a power surge caused the issue, you maybe chasing problem after problem even if you think you've resolved it. too often another problem crops-up soon or it last at least 30 days or more, then i'll consider it resolved. yeah, it maybe time to replace pc if issues happen too soon or problems continue and!!! you can't trust the parts present in old pc until tested. tada ------willy
the sounds like the hd, but it doesn't seem to continue on. if that's all, then the hd is probably awaits some system error display to allow to continue. i suggest you wait and give it more time and see if any error message appears. wait about 10-15mins. the noise itself doesn't suggest a bad hd though, unless this is constantly doing this. -----willy
