i have a very frustrating problem with this monitor. sometimes it works fine for days, then suddenly goes black, and stays that way for days then i switch it on randomly, and up it comes again. when it goes black, and i switch it off and on again, it lights up perfectly for a fraction of a second before going black again. i can repeat this as many times as i want then some day itll come right again. i fix pcs for a living, so understand technology in general, but have never worked on screens anybody give me any pointers? any help on how to physically strip it down would be helpful too, as i tend to break little plastic catches and things thanks a lot roger
read  where that failure was traced down to a common issue. remember that service manuals are rare to non-existent because these are consumer disposables. it's likely you'll have to wing and do the microscopic inspection of all solder joints and reflow any that look even the tiniest suspicious. bob
you know, when i started repairing computers not he early 90s, there was no internet, so no forums... how did i manage? guys like you make my life liveable! and of course, as you realise, i didn't do a search. at least i don't think i did it was late at night here in england. but i think i assumed this was a one-off... thanks again will get the hot poker out tonight! roger
wow roger, sounds like a lot of fun! intermitents in anything can be a nightmare. have you checked the inverter(most lcd's use one) could be iffy connectivity there that is the first place i would look.if that isn't the problem, like bob said, get out your jeweler's loop and check solder joints but i wouldn't put a lot of time into it. it is just a fair monitor to begin with. good luck!
well, i've completely taken it to bits, and all my boards are very different to this one i suppose i can just check for obvious dry joints on what i assume to be the inverter board! but, although its vaguely the same shape, and the same yellowish colour, it hasnt got those coils and things.
ok, just in case any other poor sod is reading this, there would appear to be quite different inverter boards in what appears to be the same monitor... i followed a trail of links from this thread, and eventually found somebody else with the same inverter power board as me no toroidal coils etc, but some big caps, which had ballooned a bit at the top. he replace them and pronounced it fine one of mine was the same, so i've replaced the lot it's fine so far! woo-hoo!!! now all i need is a cheap replacement screen for a packard-bell c3300 notebook which somebody sat on...
