i would like to update my desktop with a new video card. i have a dell dimension 4400 with 640mb's of ddr ram. i am running windows xp home. the current card is an ati rage 128 with 16mb. i don't play games but the video seems slow. i understand that i have a 250 watt power supply so i would be limited to ram size in the replacement. now the question! could i run a card with 128 mb and tv out? what would be a compatible card for my system that could be had for under say $75? thanks
check the video upgrade advice for dell 4400 here:
thanks anmor for the link to this excellent site. i found an ati 8500 pro graphics card on e-bay for a good price. it has 64mb with tv out. i know it's a couple of years old but i found a professional review that said it was very good card. i know you can't make a silk purse from a sow's ear but if i can improve my video, i can think about buying a new desk top in a couple of years.
1. are you freaking kidding me? the 8500 pro is like 6 years old. whoever told you it is still a good card must be smoking crack, or you read an article 6 years ago saying it was good. 2. if you're not going to game, and not going to do any graphics work, you don't need a dedicated graphics card. chances are, the lag is because of out-of-date drivers. 3. if you want a card that badly, pick up an x1650 xt for about $50. ps. nowadays, video ram isn't everything. it used to be everything back in the old days of descent and dos.
gee mingo, i didn't mean to hit a nerve here! i know the card is old but i have dim 4400 that is almost that old and that card was supposed to be good in it's day. i don't do games and i can't swing a new computer right now but my current video card is a rage 128 with a whole 16mb of memory. all i want is a card that will update my video without causing a power supply crash. there isn't much to choose from with agp 2x. is the x1650xt an ati card? i also head a geforce fx5500 will also work in my 4400. any help is appreciated.
sorry i didn't mean to sound rash like that. like most other people who would tell you, i suggest you just wait until you can upgrade your whole pc. agp is old, and agp 2x is even older. even pcie 1.0 is starting to get old (but not yet). since you're not gaming or anything, any ol' cheapo card would do the trick. most cards from ancient geforce 6 and down don't use an additional power current from the psu. yes x1650xt is an ati card. ps. buying a new pc can be much cheaper than what you think. this is a theoretical build i put together (minus the graphics card) for fun:
thanks to you all for your input. i'll do some thinking and maybe a quick letter to santa is called for!
