i am researching equipment to set up my home network so that i can stream hd video and play ps3 games unline without lag. does anyone have any recommendations on wireless routers? i want to get the best of the best. so far i am looking at buffalo airstation ac1300/n900 gigabit dual band wzr-d1800h. also, i have been reading up on the usb 2.0 to 3.0 change. is this transition worth it? for storage i use two western digital 1 terabyte external hardrives. with setting up this new network im also trying to see what other external hardrives might be better in terms up uploading speed,to support streaming. basically i am looking to redo my entire network which consist of two wd external hardrive terabytes/ 2.0 usb and a linksys wireless n router from 2006. any recommendations would be great! thanks
i've yet to see anything short of being at google hq to be without lag. it's more of a matter of your location and internet connection lag (speed is nice, but lag is not directly related to speed!) but about your usb 3.0 question. usb 3.0 is nice when it works but if you've followed the screams you know to not count on that. here we use usb 2.0 since for the usual work it's fine. and more than fast enough to play hd content. -&gt; i read you are setting up a nas so be sure you don't over invest in nas boxes. all the reviews you read seem to dis such on speed. here we dedicated a netbook as a server and it handily bests most nas boxes and routers. bob
location and internet connection even when dealing with internal network streaming? i should probably note that this is an area in which i am still learning, so could you elaborate on this because would have assumed that location and speed should only affect dowloading content. i see your point on the 2.0 to 3.0 transition. from what i have read so far you need 3.0 to 3.0 to work correctly in addition to a 3.0 usb cord to connect the two. i would think that therotically this should help as my network is setup with two external hardrives connecting into my computer. my fix to this would be getting a 2 terabyte 3.0 external hardrive and connecting it with a 3.0 cord into a 3.0 slot on my desktop. i bring all this up as i have a ton of movies in which i hope to stream to my tv via ps3 or western digital live tv box. however, with my corrent set up it lags throughout the movie. this is expected as much of my equipment is outdated and needs updated. thanks
location still matters for streaming as what if your isp has a small pipe to get all it's subscribers access to netflix? but it sounds as if speed is the issue an not lag. lag in video games upsets the player as they click the button and the delay means they may not get the shot. speed helps when streaming as it keeps the video player's buffer full. however if you have a member running some torrent then we have to wait for you to realize what cures that one. there's also better streamers and apps. i'm beginning to see the makers &quot;get a clue&quot; today as my kindle fire hd can download a movie in advance of the time i want to play it. this means i am not as subject to speed issues as its buffer is huge. let's hope more streaming players are increasing those buffers. bob
