hello: i have a lan that worked until wednesday. since then, no computer can see any other computer on the network except the linux server... all computers are either windows (xp home, xp professional, or media center) and none are 64 bit. i can connect to the internet using all of the computers, and dns works. i can ping the router and network printer. using the &quot;net view //[computername]&quot; command, i can see the individual computers that have file and print sharing installed and set up. yet, none of the computers appear in the my network window (or in the view network computers window). no changes to the firewall (kapersky, zone labs, comodo) have been made on the computers--unless conducted by an update. any suggestions?
yes. that's a common complaint. let me share that while there are numerous articles about this the brutal truth is that the window you ask about can take weeks to populate (according to a microsoft kb article!) it's busted and does not perform in a manner people wish it did. -&gt; let me be quite blunt here. feel free to spend your time trying to fix it or just use the net view command. bob
that you cant see the other computers in network places right can you still access these networked computers into one another through the command prompt a did you set your computer as the master browser b did you go into f8 safe mode with networking to set security on this c did you use safe mode with netwoking to trouble shoot the network d can you access your network through the browser using network names  ftp:// cruise over here  this place can answer all your questions about your networking problems 1-800-33qad;
while i don't mind using net view, my staff is not computer literate. therefore, i don't want to have to spend hours (trust me...) to teach them how to use the cli when windows should just work. i can not access any of these networked computers except through cli... apple and linux are looking much better at this moment...
one company grew so upset about it that their programmer crafted a replacement (based on net calls.) the network neighborhood is not what you expected or acts reliably. it is what it is and as soon as you understand this, only then can we move to solutions. bob
1-800-33qad;
