i looked up routers but most of them had feedbacks that they lose signals after a minute or reset every 10 seconds or after 6 months it doesn't work. trying to avoid this tpes but they seem to allhave this same problems regardless of brand name any good ones out there? this is for wirless for home so my wife can use her laptop and i can use my desktop for games
like d-link. i had heard good hings about them but i went with linksys wrt54gs. fry's price was $89.99; you may be able to do better on the web. i found a nib customer return they had marked down to $56.99. i had occasional dropped connections but after a few calls to linksys the problem was resolevd. they have decent support.
i have installed all of the major routers and for my personal use i buy belkins and defintely do not &quot;mix and match.&quot; my current wireless router is a belkin pren and it rocks. ben
keep in mind that most routers will have to reset from time to time. john
just bought a belkin wireless router and tried to install in on my hp computer. followed all the steps and things went smooth until the last step. i then received a message that the program could not find a internet connection. i have cox high speed cable for isp. any ideas?
personally, i have mix feeling with linksys. i've use linksys routers from their befsr41 v1 six years ago til the wireless cable gateway wcg200 right now. gone through at least 7 of their different models (some wired and some wireless). got to say that they have one of the best value out there but most of them don't last. maybe i am the unlucky one but none of the wireless models i've owned last more than 1.5yrs. and i m not too sure about their support now a days (with almost all the tech support staff are oversea). with belkin, i've got nothing to say since i've never use their product. but one thing to keep in mind with the pre-n model or mimo, srx with other brand. altho almost all of them will tell u their products will be firmware upgradable when the 802.11n came out. but who knows what's going to happen when the 802.11n are set. personlly, i'm just not a buyer of these &quot;pre&quot; product. i'm still searching for a good wireless router out there (if it even existed).
of course, these are the problems that get posted. if you checked out automobiles, you would find the same -- some people have a lot of problems with their cars, and this applies to any brand; they are called lemons. you never hear much about the many thousands that perform well. with routers, the problem often is not with the router itself, but because it is set up wrong, or it is not using the latest firmware, or there is a problem with some device connected to it. the first two of these are generally the fault of the user. i have used belkin, d-link, and linksys routers with no problems whatsover. i have never had one behave in any of the manners that you describe as common. as for cost -- around here (albuquerque,nm), after rebates, 802.11g routers generally sell for $20 to $40. the faster ones, called extreme g, super g, pre-n, etc. by different manugacturers, can be had for about $75 or less. hope this helps frank
