i have a home buit system about 8 months old, intel quad core, abit ip35 mb, 4 gig ram, 2 hard drives, both drives are seagate es models and both were bought new. i was changing a light switch in our den and needed to cut power off so i threw the breaker but accidently did the wrong one, so my pc room power went out (pc was on), when i put the power back on after doing the light switch, i went in to turn pc on says insert system cd to boot from cd, went into bios no drive found (yet it was connected). went thru the typical troubleshooting stuff, swapped to a different power lead, different sata cord, even different sata position on the board, no matter what i did that primary c seagate drive would not show up! i pulled the drive used a usb to sata device to try it on my laptop i could hear it power up and spin (no funky noises) but again nothing showing up as a drive connected under my computer. i tried the old stick drive in a ziplock and into the freezer in hopes it might help but 12 hrs later a test via usb to sata still no drive showing up (this trick did work for me on an old laptop hard drive, enough to grab the primary data i needed). i even tried a ubuntu live disc as described here...  disc worked, followed it step by step but sadly it was a no go - drive is not showing or listed so there wasn't much else i could think to do. i know the golden rule (backup your files) heck that drive was only 8-9 months old and was in a very cool antec 900 case (lots of fans) but yeah i had false security in the drive and didn't do backups obviously, the drive is under warranty and will go back, but before i send it are there any other tips or ideas i can try to get this drive to be recognized and or pull any data off it before it goes back to seagate? bill
try the demos of getdataback and zero assumption recovery. please try both your sata and usb connections so that's all of 4 tests then the next stop is  bob
i downloaded and tried both of those (and a few others on the net) the problem seems to be the drive itself isn't being detected, so no matter what program i use i dont have a drive to see and choose in these programs even when its hooked up direct sata and power to pc or via sata cord via usb, the drive just never &quot;appears&quot; as viewable etc. i did go thru the bios saw nothing to really adjust for drive detection, any drive i ever put on here shows in the bios (even usb thumb drives) just not this drive that failed on me. thought that freezer thing might work for me but seems my problem is more basic (getting the drive to even show up), altho it does spin up and has no weird clunks or anything, just cant seem to get anything to &quot;see&quot; the drive so i can attempt to view or recover from it. gonna send it in at the end of this week but man i wish i could figure a way out to get to the content before it goes.
