i was given an external harddrive which i set up and put pics and files onto and i accessed it a couple of times and then left it for quite awhile. when i tried to open it again i got no response. the green light was on but can't find anything on my pc to show me where to open it. i have windows xp. the harddrive is an lacie . not real savvy with this. can someone walk me through what i may be doing wrong as it is a nuisance not being able to access the info on it. thanks.
same subject..yours for the reading. vapcmd
find the &quot;sticky post&quot; at the top of posts for possible fixes to try to help resolve this issue. now you may know why the ext. hd was given to you, *if* it had a known history of being iffy. i suggest because it is a lacie that too maybe yet another cause or root of problem. if in fact this is relatively a new ext. hd, see if warranty can be sued. last, don't ever consider an ext. hd a trusted source to save your data especially *sole source* of precious whatever, it just isn't as trusting as that. too often something always happens to spoil long stored media one way or another. alas, dismount the drive properly that too can be an issue even done before w/o regard. tada -----willy
i went through a great deal of trouble with a lacie 1tb rikiki drive, but through endless googling came up with the strangest solution in the world. put it in the freezer for 10 to 20 minutes, and then try to access it again. my rikiki started off functioning for only 5 minutes at a time, and pretending that it had lost all its data. having dumped the former data through re-formatting, and having loaded new data, it pulled the same trick. only about 10% of the drive used, but the drive said it had no data. i put it in the freezer for 15 minutes, then brought it out and connected it. it took about 2 minutes to warm up to working temperature, but there was all the data magically recovered , and it worked fine until i tried to eject it at which point it claimed it was in use. so i shut down the computer, disconnected the drive, powered back up, reconnected the drive and it claimed it had lost all the data again. i didn't go through the eject procedure which refused again, i just disconnected the drive took it to the freezer and chilled it again. it worked just fine. note this problem continued to happen, and i continued to apply this same cold cure, and now the drive works like a dream and rarely requires a chill. i have no clear idea why this works. it may be that contracting all the parts allows things to operate more freely. it may be that it changes the viscosity of the lubricant used, or that it causes poor solder connections to contract and form their connections better. all i can assure you is that in my case it has completely rescued what i had thought was a $100 mistake. it is now completely full and i'm looking for a new external, but lacie is off the menu. i don't trust their quality. i will be looking for western digital or seagate or some other more mainstream brand. rob
use many build it yourself models. we get a bare drive, some nice looking case and rarely see such troubles. most of the time the owner admits to the drop. bob
thanks zics 511 i will definately try this because i am at my wits end. hate it when things don't work the way they should. how do i access the other forum where this subject is also thrashed out as i would love to read others problems with the hard drives?
