i built this computer about 8 months ago and very rarely it would just shut off (1 time a month). well over the last month it has become very frequent, randomly occuring more often to the point now it will only run for about 1 min and shut off and it happens while it is just sitting idle. i do not get an error message upon restart and it just starts back up when i push the power button. i replaced the psu and that did not fix or even help the problem. i have monitored the cpu and mobo temps, they seem to be running between 35 and 45 deg c. i am in the process of tearing it apart and verifying all connections again. im kind of at a loss as to where to go next short of replacing each component until the problem goes away... if anyone has any suggestions i would appreciate it. below are the computer components that it is comprised of... case: thermaltake gt level 10 processor: amd fx-8 core 8120 (included heat sink &amp; fan) motherboard: asus m5a99x evo am3+ hard drive: 2 - 120 gb ssd sandisk extreme (raid 0) ram: 16 gb (4x4gb) ddr3 1600 crucial ballistix (pc3 12800) graphics: radeaon hd 6870 2 gb power supply: thermaltake toughpower grand 850 watts network card: dlink xtreme n wireless adapter operating system: windows 7 64 bit anti-virus software: norton 360
have you disabled the built-in video on the mobo and/or cpu? when you install a discrete video card, these can conflict with each other unless you disable the onboard ones. go to the bios' setup and do that if you haven't already. good luck.
leave the cover off and point a fan at it. if it helps you know it's some part getting too warm or a part has become temperature sensitive. does not tell us much more. i've seen such machines and always wonder why folk build them. that is, they tend to combine some parts that no one has before. tip? copy someone's design. be sure to ask the motherboard maker about firmware versions. some matter. -&gt; and the other usual? an extra motherboard mounting post where there should be none. bob
