hi, i am at work so i do not have the info about my system other than it is an hp pravillian two years old, has an anthlon chip, it is still not totally outdated. i am running windows xp. my problem started when my husband called me at work and told me that he couldnot enter a passward to get into his section of the computer. he rebooted and then it let him enter his password. then after a while he could no longer enter data into outlook or word. so he had to reboot. after the reboot he was able to enter text again for about 30 or so minutes then it dissallowed him to enter text again. i took the passwords off so we could at least get into the computer without that problem occuring. i changed keyboards rebooted and it allso does it on the other keyboard. i am going to get a wireless keyboard and try that to see if there is something wrong with the serial port the keyboards are plugged into. in any case i was goign to get the wireless keyboard and mouse anyway. i can type a new messate when i get home to let you know what the computer sys info is. things i have done so far is try to backup all my files. delete temp files from windows and ie7. completed all microsoft updates. deleted all programs that i did not want or use anymore. checked to see if there were any driver updates that were ok to install. actually my son is it so he helped with the driver needs. after we worked on it for a couple of hours he thought it may be a keybosrd problem. but we then found out it was't. so he told me to get a new usb or wireless keyboard and call him back if the problems continued. so here i am going shopping for a keyboard. oh by the way i run norton antivirus and it said there were no viruss, adware, or spyware, i also have ad aware and spyware. all are finding nothing at present. i was just hoping that someone has had a somilar problem and knows if i am going in the right direction. i hate to do a system rocervery if i don't have to do that.
tell us if you cleaned the heatsinks and fan this year. that time to stop working is often a sign of heat issues. bob
hum.....i have not completed this task, and am not sure what i should do, but how would this cause my computer to disallow me to type within a program. it does not shut the system down or anything like that. i have to do a reboot to be able to type again.
i will do that tonight and thank you for the info on the heat sinks. hp said that cleaning out the computer would help with heat problems and even provided puctures on how to do it! i have done this before, but regret to say that i have not done this in a while. i will take the computer outside tonight and use an airsprayer to clean it out. i hope it works!
hi, thank you for the info about cleaning teh dust out of the computer. i have to admit, i had let that task go for too long and it was filthy inside. i also got a new keyboard a usb type as the one that came with the hp computer was a serial port type or a round one. so whether it was the dust or the need to use a usb port keyboard my computer seems to be working ok now. i then began cleaning up a lot of other things like windows temp files and internet temp files. i ran spyware, ad aware, abd norton virus. i did a security check and then fegragged the computer. my computer now feels like a new car! i am sure there are more things i could do like clean up the regesteries, but i am not astute enough to do that.
once we fix it is to stop fixing it. but keep your guard up with the av and spyware scans... bob
