it is best to leave the hdd running all the time, or to shut it off whenever it is anticipated that the computer will not be in use for several hours or days? to me, a computer hard drive, like any other mechanical device with moving parts, is subject to physical wear and a finite lifespan, so it should last longer if it is not running for hours or days when not in use. i have been running mine with the power options set to go into standby after two hours unattended. but some of my associates are telling me that what kills hdd's is the warm up and cool down process, and that they have left them running 24/7 for years with no problem. of course i always shut down completely and pull the power plug and cable connection whenever there is even the slightest threat of lightning. after two computer hits in the past i don't want to smoke this one. but i am wondering if i am doing more harm than good to the computer's internal hdd by turning it on and shutting it off every day.
for years, and there is still no difinitive answer. it is almost like religion: there are those who say you must turn the drives off to prolong their life, and there are those who say you must leave them on to prolong their life. also, of course, there are those who say it probably doesn't make any significant difference in drive life. few of these users are apt tto change their mind unless there is compelling physical evidence one way or the other -- and that is lacking. this question is obviouly closely tied to the question of turning off the computer or leaving it run because concern for the drive is often quoted as a reason for one's decision at one time in the past, i tended to leave things on 27/7. then, as little evidence developed that the hard drive would suffer, i let power management shut it down after a period on no activity, but left the computer on. now, as i see no evidence that anything suffers, i turn the whole system off if i am not going to use it for a few hours. some say that when a computer is in standby it draws negligable power so it does not need to be turned off. that is not true for mine; i have measured it and it still draws about 50 watts in standby. it is, therefore, energy savings that prompt my decision. hope this helps frank
different clocks in new mexico? agreed on your opinions. my web server is on (here in texas) 2 4 /7 but my main machine is shut down when i'm not on it. wayne
that's why we are always a little ahead of texicans. frank
