i just purchased a core i7 gaming pc from visualdreamers.com. right from the start, i received great customer service on what components would work best for me. the specs on the computer i built are as follows. lian li full tower chassis (huge, i didnt realize how big it was) core i7 920 (overclocked for free to 3.8) 1000w corsair modular power supply asus rampage 2 extreme aftermarket fans / heatsink 6 gb ocz reaper 1866 ddr3 ram nvidia gtx 295 wd velociraptor 300gb dvd burner w/ lightscribe i also had the chassis custom painted audi blue. its amazing looking, and is very durable. it only cost 99 bucks, i was expecting it to be cheap paint but its full blown high quality stuff. i couldnt be happier with my purchase. just wanted to give them the thumbs up on a job well done. anyone else have any experiences with them ?
scam! this company is a lie and a scam. the reviewer is fake! if you want to order game currency.....i mean computers...common guys, use your head. for more info about visualdreamers.com, go to the link below. a simple google search will provide all the info you need to say no to visualdreamers.
visualdreamers llc is a properly registered business based in ohio and its address is located in an office park. from the photo on google streetview, they could indeed be a small custom pc maker. ohio business filing listing the link you posted is from 2005 but visualdreamers llc was listed in 2007. domain names get bought all the time and all the &quot;bad press&quot; about them stems from that 4 year old post about the domain name. now i do believe the original post here and many other posts on various forms are self-promotion by the company since they all read about the same and were posted by folks who just joined the forums. but trying to draw folks to your product and &quot;scam&quot; are two different things.
you do make valid points. it is important to know how long a business has been runing, especially when they are offering warrenty information. if you visited archive.org, you would notice that in 2007, that visualdreamers was a movie selling company. in 2009, it started selling computers. if you feel like shellinng out 2000+ dollars to them, be my guest. i don't like seeing people get sucked into these. i was a victim before, luckily it only costed me 30 dollars.
you do make valid points. it is important to know how long a business has been runing, especially when they are offering warrenty information. if you visited archive.org, you would notice that in 2007, that visualdreamers was a movie selling company. in 2009, it started selling computers. if you feel like shellinng out 2000+ dollars to them, be my guest. i don't like seeing people get sucked into these. i was a victim before, luckily it only costed me 30 dollars.
