so i have a proxy server in my home that all the computers use to access the internet (xp pro). i edited the host file on the proxy to redirect traffic for various reasons (ad blocking, etc.) but i have noticed that it doesn't seem to affect the computers that use the proxy. for example one entry in the host file could be 127.0.0.1 abc123.com so that abc123.com would loopback to the localhost. for some reason this isn't working. is there anyway to get this to work without changing the host file on each individual computer?
i stress i have no knowledge of this, but your question interested me so i did a little research. have a look at proxy and the windows hosts file . it says; &quot;using a remote proxy server which basically does the dns requesting for you does prevent the hosts file from being considered. in other words ...your browser will route its request through your proxy server before your machine looks up an entry in hosts.&quot; that said, another article seems to say this is a setting in the browser on each machine connected to the server. look at  then scroll down to section 4, &quot; (4.) if you have a proxy server: &quot; &quot; in ie - choose tools:internet options:connections and choose your connection. if you are using a proxy server, make sure the box called &quot;bypass proxy server for local addresses&quot; is checked. in netscape - go to edit: preferences: advanced: proxies and click the manual setting. then click on view and type &quot;127.0.0.1&quot; into the exceptions box at the bottom &quot; i think that is saying, check ie on each machine and remove the tick for &quot;bypass proxy server for local addresses&quot;. and the same for other browser types. does that help? mark
sounds like he has the reverse problem. he wants the remote machine to use his proxy for dns lookup rather that attempt to do it themselves. most the settings related to bypass proxy are for when you have internal servers you can get to directly. this is mostly to reduce the load on the proxy. it will do little good to set the host setting on each machine. they do not look in the host file or even query the dns. when you set the bypass proxy stuff it will then do its own dns query and go directly... ie bypass your proxy. when you use proxy you want to make it so all the other machine must pass though the proxy to get to the internet. now assuming you force all the traffic though the proxy and the proxy is not using your host file this is a issue with the proxy software. you would think the proxy would just make a call to the os to look up the names and the os would use the host file. i would spend my time looking for a setting on the proxy that would cause it to bypass the host file. also make sure that the proxy machine honors the host file when you access things directly. if all else fails you could try to use opendns rather than the host file to filter stuff... there is a small charge for the version that you can add things to
that's why i said to remove that tick. if it was set, then the other machines/browsers would bypass the proxy. but like i said, i know nothing. mark
