i recently got a 802.11g card for my laptop to use when i am traveling. i plugged it into my computer and it detected to network and i was able to connect to it. i was surprised since i did not purchase a router: so i'm mooching off someone else's network. i live in an apartment in a densely populated area so i guess i shouldn't have been surprised. when looking at the connection properties it says the connection is excellent and running at 11mbps; so whoever has the network is using .11b. also under the properties it say the network name is &quot;default&quot;. i already use zone alarm for my firewall but was wondering what i should do? i have no idea whose network this is and now stable it will be. is there a way to secure my computer further so the &quot;owner&quot; of the network can't see my information? is there a way, besides going door to door, to find out whose network this is?
you can try another rf channel to see if you can make your own network, but your discovery is not rare. many laptops have a wifi &quot;off&quot; button for such occurances. bob
i know on the admin area of my wireless router i can see who is connected. i can ban their ip address so they cannot connect through the router. you'll find out if the owner knows what they are doing if you can't connect soon. or they might not care...
so can the owner see me only when i'm online or is there a history section that shows previous action?
but i look at the snmp output when i see the links blink and i don't think they should be. bob
well i'm still able to connect. i've turned of file sharing in windows so i guess there's nothing else i can do to secure my pc. trying to decide if i should cancel my cable modem and mooch off the other person's network. would doing so make me a bad person?
at home we don't run the wifi 24x7. only when needed. i also enabled mac filtering so only my laptop and one other machine can connect. since the setup is wep enabled, mac filtered and no sharing besides the printer is done, it's about as tight as it gets. when the laptop boots, it connects to the last network (mine) and all is well. if mine is down, it would find another (linksys!!! fix that!) but clicking the the utility and then the network i want puts me back in my network. i did change rf channels to as far away as the other networks i see. best of luck, bob
well if i buy a router and set my own network i'll make sure to follow your suggestions. but for now, i think i'll be an evil b*stard and mooch.
hey--i am in the same situation as you. opened up my laptop, it picked up a linksys signal and i'm online. what can i do to protect my computer and my personal info that i transmit on the web? when responsing, please keep in mind that i am not very computer savy
don't use other people's networks. you leak all the sites you visit and if you send email, most email is sent &quot;in the clear&quot; and easy to log and read. bob
has everybody read this? bob, this should be posted in huge print at the top of the page, next to &quot;networking and wireless forum&quot;. this is what i've been talking about. with wireless, you have no idea who is using your network. it uses airwaves and you have no control over who receives that signal. that's why corporations are staying away from wifi. even an encrypted signal is not very secure. now &quot;dweebe&quot;, as far as your post, i will make no bones about it. you asked the question, &quot;i already use zone alarm for my firewall but was wondering what i should do?&quot;. it's simple, really. quit using someone else's wireless connection. anyone helping you with any other advice is &quot;aiding and abetting a felon&quot;. what you are doing is illegal, and i hope they catch your butt and throw it in prison for a while to give you time to think about what you are doing. there are federal laws governing usage of wireless connections, and you are violating them. check with the fcc and see how many they have prosecuted already. maybe you'll be next.
