hi! i hope someone will be able to help me here and that i might actually learn something at the same time! i work off a couple of lacie drives but for some or other reason i am unable to delete anything off these drives and restore the memory that was taken up before i deleted an item/project.. therefor up until now i have always just finished a project on a certain drive and then formatted the whole drive to clean it up. this means that i can not choose what i want to delete, because even if i delete it off the drive (stash it into the trash), the memory is still in use and the drive still fills up. this is starting to become a problem because i have quite a few projects running at the moment and am running out of space! if anyone can maybe help me and explain to me if there is a different way in which i can clean the drives without losing specific folders or projects i would really appreciate it! it is quite hard to explain but i hope what im asking makes sense! thank you! kneukels
moving something to the recycle bin doesn't make the space available. it just stays on the disk in case you want to restore it again. that's the purpose of the recycle bin. don't complain about that. the answer: 1. either delete it by pressing shift-delete in stead of delete. 2. or go into the recycle bin and delete it from there. it's the same on any hard disk, internal or external. nothing wrong here for the moment. by the way, do you realize that external drives aren't really reliable? this forum is filled with 'help me' messages from people that loose all their data on it. better have a good backup scheme! kees
hmmm i might have explained myself wrongly! k so this is it, i work off an apple power mac as a video editor so i cannot really afford to clog up my apples hard drive as it will slow it down to such an extent that i cannot edit anymore, this is why i am working off the lacie's - no other choice really! i will also add that i have tried cleaning the trash after i moved a specific file from the lacie to the trash and in the process did lose that file but its size in megs is still on the lacie (the file is gone but i cant seem to recover the megs that this file took when it was on the drive) i hope this is more clear?! it surely is a strange situation and any help would be greatly appreciated! thank you! kneukels
i've never had such problems with a removable hard disk in windows. it can't be a hard drive problem, i'd say, so it's an os issue. a possible work around. partition the lacie in, say, three partitions, each 200 mb, one for each project. then you can format that partition only at the end of the project. kees
