os 10.3.9, 1.07 ghz ppc g4, 256 mb ram. on ata-3 bus is the matshita cd-r, dvd rom drive that came with the ibook. my dvd 109 is enclosed in a macally 500bc enclosure, firewire. system profiler shows it on the firewire hardware. when i insert a blank cd, however, and drop files into toast titanium 6, & clik burn, i get word that the tray is open, even though it's closed. any ideas? thanks. mh
if this burner has worked in this configuration before, you may have a hardware problem with the drive. if it has not worked before then you may need patchburn 3.1 (  ) or an update to toast titanium. current version of toast is 6.1.1 what happens when you insert a blank disk into the 109 without launching toast first? unless you have not set a default action, the finder should ask you what you want to do with this blank disk. if the finder is not recognizing blank media, patchburn will solve that problem and then you can move on with further troubleshooting. you might try repairing permissions too. i know it doesn't seem to be connected but strange things happen when they are not right. hope some of this helps p
reapired permissions and used patchburn...i'm using toast 6.0.9. the dvr-109 has never worked with this computer...it's new. when i put a disk in, i get a &quot;you inserted a blank_____. choose what to do from the pop-up menu. &quot; but if i choose toast, (say, to make a video dvd or vcd), it says the drawer is open. yes. the finder seems to recognize the media. i'll try to get an update to toast to 6.1. maybe this will do? thanks for your help. by the way, i bought the drive from a site that had a user's forum on the drive, and several mac users said they were able to use it, and it was aok.
latest version of toast is 6.1.1 if that does not work for you try this. if this drive is new, send it back for either your money back or a replacement drive.  sell this drive, as an internal drive, for $67 and for a little more in a firewire enclosure. let us know how you get on. this is the first time you have mentioned that this drive has never worked. p
just got latest toast.the drive is brand new. it was $47+enclosure. wi and will try it out later let you know.
