ok i am having a weird problem. i've never needed to boot from my cdrom but i have windows 7 on a boot disk (i'm pretty sure it's burned correctly and it looks to contain everything needed when i browse it). when i go into the bios of my mobo to set the boot priority for the cdrom first it does not appear in the list. what is even more odd is that there is a floppy drive on the list although my pc doesn't contain one. is this normal or did i manage to connect something wrong and therefore it thinks its a floppy? the drive works perfectly when in windows vista so i am not sure what the problem could be. any advice? disc drive: lite-on dh-4b1s motherboard: biostar something or other i am running vista x64 sp2 currently and would like to upgrade asap lol ask if any other specs are needed. (i built it myself so i very well could have made a wrong connection when installing the drive but i don't know)
but the model does look like a bd. since you paid for 7, ask for the factory made media. bob
is the win 7 an original disc or a copy ? vapcmd
well, you mentioned you have a &quot;bootable win7 disc&quot;, that suggests it was made by you. if so, then if this isn't a factory or retail supplied disc, there lays your problem. while, i certainly hope you tried the disc elsewhere to prove it works. for win7 install, you do need at least a dvd capable drive. yours is bd and should have worked. at the same time, re-verify the boot order and if it doesn't see any cd(any type) then the bios got hosed. while a fd in the boot order is ok provided it is part of the sequence, it need not be the only access to boot from. alas, if this win7 disc is a full or oem type disc, then again that may well an issue. it either was done wrong or your pc is too picky. until, you provide the source or the means of how the win7 was gotten, your support ends in similar matter. tada -----willy
some specs: liteon's second generation of blu-ray burners is the new dh-4b1s. its manufacturers call it &quot;triple writer&quot;, meaning that it can burn all types of optical storage media currently available (except for dvd-ram). bd-r burning speed is set at 4x which is a good speed - although not the best that you can find on the market.the drive can be connected to any pc using a serial-ata interface, ensuring that data transfer will never slow down the process of bd reading/playback. the drive can burn bd-re media at 2x, dvd+/-r media at 12x, dvd+/-r dl at 8x, dvd+rw at 8x, dvd-rw at 6x, cd-r at 40x and cd-rw at 24x. reading speeds are also set high, with the dh-4b1s being able to read bd-rom media at 4x, dvd-rom media at 12x and cd-r/rw media at 40x. vapcmd
i have worked on pcs with bios that had some limit on the number of devices it would show in the boot order. i had to disable the ones i didn't want in order to get others to show up. go figure...i couldn't. as for the mysterious floppy drive, i suspect your bios isn't set up properly. there may be an option to show whether one is present or not. if it shows as present and you don't have the &quot;floppy seek on boot&quot; turned on, you may not get the usually floppy drive error. in any event, see if your bios shows the floppy as present or enabled and change to not present/disabled.
