ok, so it is not starting up, i think my problem lies in the front panel connectors, i think i am connecting them wrong. the name of the connector that turns on the computer is called 'm/b sw' which is something i havent seen before, no matter where i plug it, it wont work. it will not give a sign of life. if you really need to know my specs here they are: intel core 2 duo 2.8ghz 2gigs ram 1 stick 500gb green power hard drive. 9800gt 1gb. 300w psu. i am pretty sure i connected everything right. this is very frustrating as it is my first build and i thought it was going to be simpler than that, anyways this is why i am posting here. any help is appreciated.
but what do the manual say? when it works, it is simple but when it's not (and there are no indication/s of the problem) then that's a pain. any kind of indication at all when that power switch is pressed? is there a led on the motherboard that says 5v is on?
i just press the button and here the echo of the click, i really do not know what the problem is..
take a metal object like the tip of a screwdriver and try shorting the two pins where you insert the power switch wires from the front panel.leave all the other pins disconnected. if it starts,its a problem with your front panel headers.if it still doesnt start,atleast you know there's nothing wrong with your front panel connections.then we can look at what else could be the problem
&quot;9800gt 1gb. 300w psu.&quot; let's google the common 9800gt card and what it wants for watts. &quot;minimum recommended system power (w) 400 w &quot;  your psu is 75% of the recommended value. missing this by such a wide margin is one likely cause. who designed this machine?
i just realized now that you tell me that my 9800gt requires an extra 6pin connector to be connected to it, directly from the psu, and i couldn't find it, now i understand.... 300w is way too low. thanks for telling me. is there any chance i might have damaged any components by doing this?
the chances are slim that anything bad happened. if you had smoke coming from chips and the old star trek hit by klingon fire effects then you wouldn't be asking.
it probably means im going to have to change my case since i do not think it will accomodate a 500-700w psu. this is such a waste of money and time. luckily you guys are here.
money and time if we don't learn by our mistakes. computer cases aren't as expensive as some may think; while you don't want to go the 'el cheapo' route, you don't have to spend $900+ for the thermaltake level 10. you can usually get a decent (starter) case for under $100  and power supplies don't have to put you in the poorhouse either
thank you for the advice, im going to go buy these this weekend, i will message you when i get them and tell you if it works. should i go directly for 600w?
larger psus. check the measurements of the one you have and check the measurements of the ones you're considering. post back if you have a question...we'll be here. vapcmd
and it was alsmost 2cm larger in height and width, length doesnt matter. so i think im going to have to change my case, any suggestions? should i get a full sized tower so i can be tranquil?
how much money do you want or can afford to spend on a new case? see my previous post for (budget-minded) cases from newegg
150 dollars max
there are a number of good cases at newegg for $150 and under; some with the psu opening at the top (most on the bottom), quite a few with side windows-if that's your thing.  the antec 900 (mid-tower) is at the top of the list; i used to have this case..it's a good one, and is just shy of $100.
what's the max config ? more than 1 optical drive ? more than 1 hard drive ? floppy drive ? are there any space limitations ? is that $150 for both the case and the psu ? vapcmd
is the antec 900 a full tower? i'm going for full tower now because i do not want to deal with space problems anymore.
psu: 500 - 600w that fits in a relatively small case. case: one that can fit a 500-600w psu prices: psu: under 70$ case: under 100$ is that possible? please find something.
antec 900 -mid tower, $99.99  will hold a 750 watt psu without any problem a link to the manufacturers website  cooler master silent pro 600, modular psu, $69.99  cooler master's website
thanks a lot for the feedback.
