i already have the case(standard mid-atx antec with front firewire/usb 2.0 plugs). do i need a certain type of motherboard to be able to connect the front firewire(ieee 1394a/b)? or will all standard mobo's have the pins to connect it correctly? i have been building pc's for a while now, so i know all the basics. i'm just not sure what to buy for this.
is on the front cable? some are simply those that one feeds through the a hole in the rear and plug into the rear connectors. others are the small black connectors that plug into the mobo. when you consider buying a mobo, don't you take the time to read what it contains/supports? it's all there in black and white, or whatever colors you prefer. they even provide pictures, and you can even download the manual to read before you consider buying. or go to  and read details on all of the motherboards that support the cpu/chipset that you are interested in.
i always do alot of research before i buy anything. i've found the motherboards that specifically state that they support frontside ieee 1394/firewire... so if it doesn't have the the fire controller it won't work? someone told me that the standard front-side connectors on mobo's could support firewire. i don't think that's true, but since it came from a usually trustworthy source i thought i would verify this. thanks for the reply.
support firewire. you are totally correct to double check i'm looking at two right now that do not support it in the front. lot's od usb though. lol
mixed up between mobo and case. if the mobo has the firewire pins on the mobo surface, it will certainly support firewire in the chipset or a separate chip. and you have a case that supports it, so then you will simply enable it in the bios fire wire is slowly becoming a standard along with usb. remember it is a mac development and ms still doesn't acknowledge it. they call it i[something]. mfrs don't like offending ms. lol
i wouldn't get a new mb just to get firewire, but just get a firewire pci card. since i have some older atx cases that don't have front usb or firewire ports i got a 5 1/4&quot; drive filer that had both, the cables go throught the caes, out the back and plug into the rear usb and firewire ports. dose the job, cost $10. john
