need help installing sony crx230ae cd-r/rw driver i am a novice. i bought a sony crx230ae cd-r/rw driver and installed it onto my compaq presario pc (xp home) and the computer will not recognize it or the dvd drive already there. it is as if they aren't there. is there something simple i did wrong? please help.....
did you connect it on it's own cable or on a cable already used by another drive? if on the same cable as an existing drive you need to set it as a slave device. jumper settings are marked on the drive. did you check that the cable is connected the right way? red or black tracer wire nearest the power connector. did you connect a power connector to the drive? no drives showing tends to indicate no power or incorrect cable installation. check all connections and jumper settings and let's know how you get on. john
i connected its own cable and connected it to a dvd drive already installed. both of the drives previously installed were set to csel, so i set the sony drive to that as well. the cables are connected correctly and power connectors are powering the drives. should i use the previous ide cable that was connected to the previous drive?
you used the new cable that came with the drive and connected it to the existing drive. in that case disconnect it and reconnect the drive to the cable that is connected on the old drive (the center connection) and set it as a slave drive. if you have two such cables (pata connections)one of which is connected to the hard drive and have a free center connection (secondary drive) use the connection that goes to the hard drive. it's better to have the cd/dvd drives on separate ide connections. hope this solves your problem, let's know how you get on, john
the new cdrw drive may have come with a 40 wire connection and the dvd that was in your machine may need an 80 wire cable so use the cable that was fitted originally. if cable select doesn't work set the drive on the end as master and other as slave, if it's a cable that has a blue connector at one end and a black at the other, make sure to plug the blue end of the cable to the ide channel on the motherboard. john
