just from reading what i have so far. wireless networking appears to be an access to the internet/isp, without wires. it sounds as if rather than having an dial-up access to the internet or a dsl/cable connection you have a reauter. i am not so sure about my above interpetation though. because it's called wireless networking so i suppose you must have more than one computer operating off of this reuter; but dont you have to have the reuter near or in the computer (whatever a reuter is)? i guess my main question is not so much what wireless networking is...i guess i want to know how does it affect the family pc? is wireless networking replacing dsl and cable isp's in the home? or is it just a business thing. second is wireless networking just a connection to the internet; do you still need to have an internet service provider? o.k. i know you can tell that i am very knew to using computers and internet service providers. as i type i'm just switching from dial-up to cable. so please be gentle towards me &quot;a novice&quot; in your answers. thank you!
your internet connection must be dsl or cable. connect a wireless router to the dsl or cable modem. install a wireless nic into the desktop or laptop. you can now access the internet via the modem using rf (radio frequency in the ghz bandwidth). my home network has a wireless router, d-link di-614+. i have three desktops wired to three ports and the laptop has a wireless nic. i can use it all over the house. i could install a wireless nic into one of the desktops and use it in another room without running cat-5 wire. that's it.
thanks a lot for that info. i was thinking that &quot;wireless networking&quot; was replacing isp's. from your response i understand that you still need a cable or dsl isp. but this way you don't have to have a seperate dsl or cable modem for each computer.
the router connects to the dsl or cable modem. the router's ports connect to each pc, wired or wireless. hence the name router, it routes the data to each pc. and with a router you get a pretty good firewall to block unwanted junk from hitting your pc. and with a router and more pcs you can build a little home network.
