i would like to upgrade my celeron processor to a pentium 3 or 4, and would like to know more about doing so. will i need to change motherboards? any other info would be appreciated.
since socket 370 boards took a variety for celeron and pentium 3's and socket 478 boards took a variety of celeron and pentium 4's the missing piece of information is: the make/model of the motherboard. bob
intel 810 chipset. 370 socket. hp told me it wasn't upgradeable, i assume that means i'll have to change motherboards?
while you noted it's 810 based, a 370 socket and a hp, you left out which hp. it would have been nice to know the model number of the machine to see if someone had a success story, but without more information, not only will you likely change the motherboard, but the power supply and case as well. bob
sorry i didn't know you meant the pc model it's an hp 7915. also can i blame the slow boot time mostly on the processor? thank you.
1. slow boots are defined as it's booting in minutes more than ever before. you didn't tell the forum how many seconds its taking so in my estimation, that's not the issue. 2.  for example is a 100 mhz fsb cpu to fit such a machine. but if this was my machine, i'd know that any 100 mhz fsb cpu might work. i'd have to consider my risk quotient to see if i'd pop for this set:  the problem here is that p3's move the fsb up to 133 and we can't tell if you can do that. sit the selection of possible items is the 219 dollar unit or this slightly faster celeron. my choice? i wouldn't do this. 3. to speed up most machines, i find the following helps. a. no pests allowed. i run all five tools noted at  b. cwshredder noted at  c. starter would be used to clean up the startup items. d. bring out your dead! or rather, be brutal and uninstall any program you haven't used in 2 or 3 months. full hard disks run slow. e. review optimizing windows at either  (for win9x/me) or  (for 2000/xp) f. toss bloated items like norton 2004 or system works out in favor of free avg from  g. get 512 megabytes. no more, no less. bob
