i want a burner to just back up digital pictures and maybe convert some old vhs movies to dvd. i have been looking at the sony but while at walmart noticed the lite-on dual layer that uses all +/- formats. it also comes with the nero software and some others as well. i believe it was $109.00 not a bad price and about $70.00 cheaper than the sony. will it hold up do you guys think? thanks.
of my builds. i've found them reliable and replaceable (when needed) and worth the price. note that optical drives are realistically only going to last a year or two at best, then you replace them. i might check out newegg for comparing prices even though walmarts return policy is a slam dunk.
i have a lite-on dvd burner pre-installed on my newest computer, and i installed a sony on an older system. i've had the lite-on for 6 months, and the sony for a little over a year...an experience that challenges the &quot;big-name&quot; theory. the lite-on has had no problems, and is very quiet, only making a soft whirling sound at its highest speed. the sony, on the other hand, has been a little louder, and on a few occasions, had problems with the disks becoming &quot;unbalanced,&quot; while they worked fine in the lite-on drive. in addition, the sony drive failed to burn twice...it claimed the burn had completed and showed the files on the disk. i shut down the computer, and when i later tried to access it, i found the disk was blank (unfortunately i had already deleted the files from the hard drive). i'm assuming that there was a software glitch, but have been double-checking all disks burned with the sony drive since. i'm sure that my experience will not hold true on all drives by these manufacturers, as each one is subject to its own quirks. however, given this and the price difference, i would definately get the lite-on multi-format dvd burner. hope this helps, john p.s. if you are looking for a dvd recorder for your tv, i'd like to mention that walmart's ilo recorders are actually made by lite-on, and their basic burner just went on clearance to $95 (from $150). however, i have a philips recorder, so i can't comment on the quality of that particular product.
ummm... yes, it is. it is in fact the same drive. lite-on makes a lot of burners for other companies, and sony is one of their biggest customers. you can check out this list of the oem re-badged lite-on drives to compare which lite-on model is re-badged as which sony model...  lite-on drives for years have been some of the top-rated drives by many of the burner sites, like  i have used lite-on drives for years without ever having a problem... their cd burners go on sale for $20 at fry's all the time... i have installed probably 25 of them... having said that, i will say that in my own computers i have the nec 3520a, which is an awesome drive, too. absolutely problem free for me, and they are only $38 plus $4 shipping at newegg.com. they don't have an external right now, though... if you need an external, i would buy the lite-on without hesitation.
i don't understand why you would ever need to replace any optical drive in a computer? i've had my dell 866 mhz for 5 years with dual optical drives and never once had any problems with either of them let alone need to replace them. any optical drive should last you (depending on your usage) the life of your computer. the burner on my dell is an lg installed by dell. i can proudly say that i've never had any problems with it.
i have the ilo external dvd recorder and i'm trying to record from my laptop to the ilo. you say the lite-on is the same, so i'm hoping that someone might have the info. i hooked it up via usb, but they are not recognizing eachother.
