i'm having the darndest time cooling my cpu. it seems to idle at abot 55 c. i had the stock fan in there, but replaced it with a copper hsf with silver 5. it started off cooler when i started it up again, but then went back up to 55. it's a amd athlon 3000+ on an epox 8kda series mobo, 1gb ram. any ideas on what's wrong?
i'd start by checking to see what amd recommends in terms of optimum temperature parameters and cooling. (i'm assuming that your cpu isn't seriously overclocked and that your pc isn't filled with dust.)
i wouldn't call 55 degrees overheating. my overclocked celeron cpu have been running at about 70c for more than 2 years now.
high for an xp, if it is the new 90 nm 64 bit cpu [socket 939] it is somewhat high. the socket 754 3000+ dissipates a max of 89 watts, the 90 nm 64 watts. the likely problem is that the interior ambient air of the case is too hot. you probably need at least one more case fan, but you also have to have the fans working together, not fighting each other. try to keep that air about 1/2 inch above the hub of the cpu fan below 95 f [35c]. amd tests the hsf that comes with the retail box cpu at 40c ambient to provide adequate cooling. but at that internal ambient temp the cpu will be running about what you are getting. now, i only use cases that have a top fan exhausting air, and a side fan blowing in, a rear exhaust fan and a power supply with two fans. i keep the interior below 90f. sometimes i also add a front intake fan. both amd and intel have multiple cpu's that use the same numbers, even though they may differ substantially. thus you really need to specify the specific cpu version. you can downoad all types of thermal data and voltage information on each cpu model/version from the amd site.
hi, cool your cpu then it will perform. amd cpu gets hot. you should apply the heatsink compound to the heatsink. also check the fan. you can check the following page for cpu installation.  check out the cpu tips for amd based system on the following page.  thanks & regards sumukh
a good cpu operating temp is 50 deg. c, give or take 5 deg. but i would look into ray's suggestion to increase the airflow in the case itself to allow more air around the cpu. round cables, another fan, funneling the flow that direction, etc. dating back to athlon, amd recommends 42 deg. c case temp and about 50-55 deg. cpu as the optimum (ideal), and anything close as fine. chuck
