hello fellas, i'm curious, what would be your best built? i need it for games/3d graphics and so on. also, would be great if you sum up and write at the end of your post how much would it cost. i'm talking about real beast! waiting for your replies
components for you. take your credit card to a reliable builder and tell them what you want. make sure the available balance is high enough...say 10k. have them build it for you and and hand back your change. to borrow from an old hot rodding expression, &quot;speed costs money. how fast do you want to go? &quot;
i'm sure someone will share their most favorite built, i'm also sure some have it even in text files or something. i'd like to know what would be the fastest/strongest pc in the world right now and it's price.
the best computer they've ever owned but, by then, it's yesterday's news. pc technology changes too rapidly. i was being a bit facetious about the credit card but not about the expert resource. why anyone would think some anonymous person in tech forums would have a better answer than a reliable builder who has done this over and over is something i cannot understand. you can peruse these many help forums for bits and pieces of information if it's your intention to build this machine yourself but if your intention is to have the fastest/strongest in the world you need to know that should that objective be met you will be the champion for no more than a few seconds.
if i was a gamer i'd get some i7 2+ghz based machine and then go as high on the list as i could from  then i'd get a nice display, keyboard and mouse and call it quits. the recipe is very simple and i've found gamers that get caught up in some amd love fight but let's let them do that. i want a little more stability. bob
visit some gamer websites. they provide hot news plus what has worked or seems to. you can also visit some of the popular gamer building websites as well, at least you get a look at the specs. you can then build what makes you happy. my advice, get a big frigging case with plenty of gamer type accessories(fans, bottom psu), hulking name brand psu(suggest pc power and cooling) and best cpu and gpu(or gpus) available. if you can do all that for $20, call me. why, because you want all that on the cheap, i'm sure. enjoy -----willy
thanks a lot willy, i guess that's the place where i should be looking for it cheers.
there are many websites which offer powerful gaming computers with overclocking and advanced cooling. i suggest to you this. &quot;a real gaming pc that's not much larger than an xbox slim!&quot;
