i hope someone can help me make sense of this. i seemingly lost four external hard drives within hours of eachother. for simplicity, will limit the scenario to two for the moment: lacie #1 and lacie #2. initial event: lacie #1 external: i accidently used a different power supply adapter when trying to start lacie #1 external. the one i used had slightly different amp output. stupid mistake... the lacie #1 external power light flickered for just a moment, then went out. the drive never spun up, nor made a sound. result: lacie #1 external would not turn on. *** i had an identical lacie external - lacie #2 - so i thought i might try using that to recover data from the failed lacie #1 drive. *** secondary event: lacie #2 external i tested lacie #2 external with proper power adapter. it powered up normally. so i removed the hard drive from lacie #1 housing and installed it into lacie #2 housing. then i tested lacie #2 external with proper power adapter. lacie #2 light flickered, then went out. why? i assumed it failed to read drive #1, which must be corrupted. so removed hard drive #1 from lacie #2 housing, and reinstalled drive #2 into it's original lacie #2 housing. tested lacie #2 again, with proper power adapter. now lacie #2 would not power up at all, where it just worked fine two steps ago. final result: lacie #2 failure. what happened here? i understand how the initial event for lacie #1 could cause failure in both drive #1 and/or the lacie housing #1. but how could that lead to the second event failure in lacie #2? is it possible that the bad drive from #1 somehow corrupted the lacie #2 housing power? how is that possible? and since drive #2 was outside of it's housing when the failure occurred in lacie #2, does that mean drive #2 is most likely healthy? any advice is much appreciated.
but look at the top of this forum sticky &quot;lost and found&quot; for the lacie miracle. too bad they didn't standardize power plugs in this industry. bob
it is my guess that, at the least, i fried the logic board of the drive. at this point, it does not seem to respond to power, period. so i am buying a used drive - same model, same firmware - and going to try and swap that logic board onto my lacie #1 drive. question though... what should i hook it up to from there? can i simply plug the drive into an ata ultra compatible pc, and let the computer try to recognizie it? because it was a standalone drive in the lacie, is there any kind of boot/partitions configurations on the drive for the lacie, that might cause the pc to not recognize it? this is beyond my pay grade, but i want to give it a shot, and save the $$$ of having some recovery firm do the work. thank you!
explains how they got the data out. as to hooking up drives to pcs that has to be something we see on too many web pages. try reading a few more. bob
thanks bob. stayed up late last night and worked it out. here's what most likely happened. 1. when powering on lacie #1 with the the bad adapter, it instantly fried both the #1 housing logic board as well as the installed #1 hard drive logic board. 2. when i swapped in bad #1 drive into lacie #2 housing, and tried to power it up, the bad drive somehow fed-back it's power failure into the lacie #2 logic board, frying it as well. (i still don't understand why this was the case - why didn't it just fail to read the bad drive. talkin bout a widow-maker) for anyone counting, that's 3 logic boards down. 3. my hunch was correct about drive #2 being healthy. it was out of the housing when lacie #2 housing fried. when i reinstalled #2 drive back into the #2 housing, the housing logic board was dead, so could not pass on any further failures to the #2 drive. 4. in answer to my own question about how to get a pc/wxp box to read the former lacie #2 ata drive, all i had to do was remove a jumper on the drive, making it a slave drive. once i did that, my pc read the disc 100%, with all the old lacie formatting, partitions, etc. 5. as previously posted, my drive #1 was not running when it fried, it just failed to power-up, so i was almost certain all my data, physical disc, and heads were healthy. it was just the power. i stumbled upon a great website:  - can swapping logic boards be that easy? - and just so happens i had a torx socket sitting in my mini computer kit, unused for the last 20 years - so i popped off the healthy #2 drive logic board and installed it on the #1 drive, plugged that into my pc/wxp box and... woohoo - there's all my 320gb of data. i had recovered my own hard drive! the local data recovery shakedown joint was ready to charge me over a grand per drive (i'm sure they would have too, despite it actually being an easy fix, especially for experts in the field, this would have been nothing.) 6. i found a matching model/firmware drive on ebay cheap - sectors are bad - but all i need from it is the healthy logic board - so i will swap that in for the burnt out board on drive #1. recall, i actually had four total drives go down, so still have to find another cheap matching logic board for drive #3. 7. that leaves me sitting with four worthless lacie housing shells, all apparently with burt out logic boards of their own. plus i have to find permanent, networked new housing for the four hard drives. i don't want a whole new pc just for that. what to buy???
can i call it a game? well it is a puzzle which is a game so let's share what i tried in the past. 1. server. any old pc can be a server. upside - many are free. downside - all of them seem to draw 100 watts. 2. a simple server like  upside - found for 25 bucks. downside - not too speedy. lesson - not a single small nas is what i call fast. the issue is the link. it's all of 100 megabit, usb 2 is 480 and sata is 1500 megabit. 3. next up. a netbook. walmart has a 228 buck netbook. might be the cure to item 1. bob
1. as long as the &quot;old&quot; bios supports drives in the 300gb range, yes? i imagine most would. 2. this would be more for long-term storage rather than speedy serve-backs. soooooo, i could live with those slower speeds. i actually have a new (unpacked) hp ex495 - intended to be used as a media server for music, video, etc to my networked home devices. i quickly glanced at the manual last night - says it wants to reformat any new drive to become part of the server. will it really not let me add a pre-formatted drive with content? i should take a second look. 3. netbook - i'm confused. how will my four raw drives fit into that housing? are you suggesting i buy new individual/external housing for the drives, and cable them in via usb/fw?
i have the black unit and it can do a jobd raid (read  ) mine has a pair of 50 buck 750gb drives. upside - cheap 1.5gb usb drive. downside - a little noisy. bob
that looks promising. all four existing disks are stuffed full of content, and if possible, i want them to stay that way... reformatting into an jbod raid or other array is not mandatory with that hardware is it? i will take a closer look. appreciate the tips bob! j.
i like the freegene concept. have a $25 newegg gift card burning a whole in my pocket however, so will try out the eagle branded version.
the drive arrived with almost zero documentation and in the dual drive, two drive letters show up mode. since i wanted it to be a clone of another 1.5tb drive (for cheap) this is why i moved the jumper. now i'm back to the my 3 copies to achieve some reliable backup system. bob
newegg survey says the fan on that eagle is worthless - will die in a matter of months. any issues like that w/ the freegene?
so i can't speak about longevity. it runs about 2 hours when i sync the systems and then it's back to the storage bin for safety. i read the newegg review and since i'm handy with drill presses, wires, solder and more i think it is fixable. or like one wrote they leave the cover off.
