i have a netgear mr814 v2 router. i have dsl. i am connecting at around 200kbs with my router and around 500kbs with just my modem. i have tried everything i know of to get it to be as fast as the modem alone but can't. also sometimes it is even below 100 kbs. it is not connected to another computer right now. trying to get it to work correctly before adding the other comp. thnaks david
then try another router to test against.
some dsl modems are actually modem/routers and have to be put in bridge mode if you want it to work correctly with another router. for example, i'm using a westell 2200 that was provided with my verizon dsl service that needs to be bridged to work properly with my router (which is, coincidentally, an mr814 v2).
i also have a westell modem but not sure what model. i do know it is an older one. our phone company had to upgrade it for me awhile back when they upgraded the system here. how would i know if i have the type modem you are talking about?
well, mine shows the model number right on front. look at the label on the bottom or back and it should say what model it is.
it is a westell model number c90-36r516-01
ok, that model is not a router, so it is already bridged and passes everything through to your netgear. have you tried to reduce the mtu size in the wan setup of your router configuration menu? if mtu size says 1500, drop it to 1492. if it is already at 1492, try dropping it to 1472.
what os do you have, win 2k and win 98 you can tweek try going to speedguide.com and using the utilites there to tweek your settings
my mtu was at 1492 and i went to 1472 and it didn't make a difference. i am running win xp just in case you are wondering. i appreciate your help.
sorry, david, i'm out of ideas. maybe it's time to borrow/buy another router and see if that helps? that westell modem is also quite dated and has been discontinued. perhaps an upgrade here, too?
thanks for your help and i think i will try to borrow a friends router and see what happens.
