i'm having an issue with my network adapter. my daughter was surfing the web when she says the internet stopped. i looked and the network adapter is not picking up the network from a router two feet away. the wireless network is working fine - i can connect with the other three devices in the house. but this cpu will not recognize the network. i have updated the device drivers for the adapter and run a basic windows diagnosis - it says the drivers are up to date and the device is operating properly. i have also run anti-virus software just in case she picked up something while browsing. what am i missing?
but i can't connect to the internet...it's weird. what is the problem?? if anyone knows..help me plz
you said the wireless network is fine so shall we presume this one is wired? if so, how far from the device is from the router doesn't much matter. if wired, have you tried to ping the gateway? if not, you could try that but first check to see if you have a proper ip address. if using windows, you type &quot;ipconfig&quot; (without quotes) from the command prompt. it should show several sets of numbers. one will be the gateway address and another will be the ip address of the network adapter(s). if ping returns and error, the easiest thing to do would be the try a new cable. see what more information you can provide and post back.
what exactly does the computer show or say? my guess is that there is some basic physical connection to a wireless router but that it shows as &quot;limited or no connectivity&quot;. limited connectivity means that it's not the full connectivity needed to go through the router to the public internet. usually this means that the pc didn't get it's ip-address from the router for some reason. and that reason usually is some error in the configuration of either the pc or the router. that's not weird, because it's a rather comples area as soon as something is wrong. but there might be other causes. for example, the isp might have shut down the connection because you didn't pay. or the cable outside your house is damaged. i've seen many people without internet for a month or more, while the isp tried to fix what was broken with them, especially if they had accepted an offer like &quot;make your internet faster. add interactive tv. add voip. save money. excellent service. highly capable techs. sign here and enjoy next week&quot;. - please tell more about your connection (wired, wireless?). - did it ever work? - if wireless, does it work wired? - does it work elsewhere (if wireless and a laptop)? - does another pc or laptop work with you? - finally, run ipconfig /all from the command prompt and post the full output in your answer. kees
no, this adapter is a wireless adapter card installed on a desktop cpu. i am currently trying to bridge a connection from the laptop via usb to see if maybe the card is damaged?
we know norton can do this when it expires. there are some models of laptops that do this too often. and some laptops have a wifi on/off feature/button. tell more. bob
