i have a decision to make soon, in fact before my grandson comes up for the summer. right now i do alot of genealogy, some desk publishing (business cards and brochures for my small business), manipulate photos with photoshop 5.5. i have a toshiba laptop 1805 and it does the job, except i have to hook up a cd burner whenever i want to cut a cd. i am set up wireless with a 5mb line from charter cable. the toshiba is getting old, had to reload it twice since xmas, but i like xp because this is easy to do. now for the problems: 1. i am a former main-frame programmer, who is frustrated by pc's and all the choices you have to make. 2. i kind of like to sit on my couch and multi-task while working on the internet. 3. my grandson is coming up for a few months, and since he can't bring his ps/3, he wants to play that wow game here. question: do i really need to get a desktop to satisfy both our needs? and which machine would you suggest? i talked to dell because i used to have one, and like the onsite repair they offer. he recommended a laptop, something about xps, or 1505 for about $1300 + and a desktop for a few hundred dollars less. i really hate to spend that much at this time, any ideas. my daughter in texas bought a emachine at comp usa for a few hundred dollars, and is going to add wireless card, new video card and more memory or ram, since i am not that technically inclined and live in a small town in mi, i am not that adventurous . appreciate any ideas or suggestions, jq
doing on the pc.....any specific games ? no techie friends ? vapcmd
a laptop with p-3 that's about 5 yrs old, lacking all the bells/whistle that a modern one does. ok. a modern laptop has built-in all the features you, not your grandson, currently use and some models even exceed them. gaming on a laptop is definitely possible but not for lower powered models. generally, a gaming machine requires fast graphics which in turn consume more power and runs hotter and drain batteries faster when not on ac power. you could buy such a laptop for $1500-$2000 but you may be better off getting both a lower priced laptop for your use and a desktop for gaming. go to a best buy or circuit city or compusa and check the selections. or get from dell. the major brands generally have good support, in spite of occasional lapses. how about this: get a laptop now and when your grandson arrives, have him play his game to see if it's good enough; if not you can walk into the store and pick up a powerful enough desktop at a moment's notice. have fun shopping!
grandson is 15 and he was playing some game i think was called wow. something about the war. he was playing against his friend ?
i would say get a portable computer a xps system is not needed if you want to go dell one of there inpiron systems would do nicely. they tend to be a bit lower end and a bit less expensive. if all you granson would be playing is wow then any of todays systems should be fine. reason why i say portable is because you like to sit at the couch and and be on the computer.
thanks for the response - it makes sense to me. i will send him a copy, janet
