i have an ecs p45t-a with e8400 and 4gb gskill ddr2 800 kit (2x2gb 5-5-5-15 @1.9v) running vista 64 hp sp1. if i run both sticks of ram in it, it crashes randomly after about 10 min in windows or before boot. i have troubleshooted using either stick of ram alone and they will run 100% stable for days using only 1 chip in any memory slot. this sounds like a mb issue to me what do you guys think? please let me have some tips, thanks brian
i fixed one like that last month. the owner didn't take the free advice to put two more drops of heatsink compound on the cpu. they gave up and i did it for the 50 buck minimum charge. they were not happy. i'm unsure why some don't try the easy stuff first. there is also an issue with memory, bios, timings and more but i will not write more than that here. it's far too deep and in short a warranty+support problem. bob
well thank you for the quick reply. i know mine isnt a heat issue because i have played games on it for weeks and 0 crashes with either memory chip. about the bios and mem timings i have mine all on default right now which is 5 5 5 15 1.9v.
it's the same as theirs. they &quot;knew&quot; it wasn't that. and found it ran with one stick so it couldn't be &quot;that.&quot; shop counters thrive on such issues. let's not let them have the easy ones. or at least be sure about that. again, the details in your post are not there for me to look into the other area of bios, memory timings and more. but you can research that on your own. bob
i assume you're using the 06/19/2008 bios. are you manually setting the timings to match the stick or just letting the mobo use it's defaults? also, are you using the same bank of dimm slots? first, manually set the ram for ddr2-667 and confirm it's stable. if it's not, the mobo is probably bad. also try populating the two slots closest to the cpu (one orange, one yellow) and sticking with the mobo default memory settings. if you try to use all 4gb in one bank (both sticks in the orange slots), you may have to boost the memory voltage to 1.95v or 2.0v. if neither of these works, you may want to consider swapping ram to a memory brand that's been qualified by ecs (mushkin's a great brand but ecs may not allow an rma using their ram).
excellent ideas thank you much ramarc. i have not updated my bios, i will look into that. and i'm going to try the 667mhz setting. much for me to look at now i'll get back to post on progress, crossing fingers.
