hi all. i recently tried to restart my computer, but after the initial screen, the one w/ the f8 at the bottom, it just goes to a black screen w/ a flashing cursor in the top left corner. and thats it, it wont boot up at all. any ideas, tell me its not the motherboard... thanks. -props
and can you access the bios?
f8??? you offered no details of the system and what got you to this point. was there any errors before you restarted? you give little to go on, but it appears you may have a corrupted system. if by f8, did you try entering into &quot;safe mode&quot;? get back with details... tada -----willy
hi. yes i can access the bios, but nothing after that, i've changed the boot order and nothing, when i said f8 i meant the splash screen w/ my hp logo and the info to press f8 at the bottom of the screen. by the way this is an old cpu i'm setting up for my son to play games and watch movies, it's an hp vectra xe320 1.10ghz celeron. no errors just did a fresh reboot, got everything almost set up and put disc in and shut down to boot from disc to set up cable modem and after splash screen all i get is that damn flashing cursor unless i go to bios or f8. i think tho that when i changed the boot order and put the dvd drive first it did access that, which leads me to believe that it is the hdd. and also my friend said that the cpu was getting slow, slower than 512 of memory would imply, like 1 or 2 programs max. thanks for your replies folks. -props
i *assume* you did a fresh reload of the os(xp?) and hopefully the mtrbd. drivers after that. if that was successful, then you proceed to load other devices like your modem, dsl, etc.. i believe your os got corrupted, but you can do a &quot;repair&quot;. (takes about an 1hr.) enter bios and make sure the cd drive is the 1st boot device, save and exit. reboot, allow it to load cd and when xp appears, hit, enter to agree. then on the next screen, select or hit f8 to repair(don't press r). when the os menu appears, select your os, probably just the one, enter 1. it should start a reloading of the os, but the best part is it really doesn't disturb the previous setting, pgms., etc. it just recovers as a repair, so you don't have to restart all over again. if the problem persists after that post the results. i also assume hp recovery or restore cds provide a repair selection. tada -----willy
well i had an idea, i changed the ide ribbon (it was pretty creased and bent up) and it started right up. i never tought that could be what it was, i didnt think the ide was that sensitive, but... if anyone could let me know why this had an effect on the cpu not booting up id appreciate it. thanks. -props
if you believe that's how the problem got resolved, buy another cable. don't believe just because now its working it will remain so. the cost of the cable is very low. if cable issue, then those devices couldn't be acknowledged during the boot cycle as it awaits for an answer and waits. it will take some time but it should have errored in some way, but yours is a celeron cpu so it takes awhile before that happens or not if more problematic. either way, glad its working for ya. tada -----willy
ok so i was installing a program and i was asked to reboot, so i did, and the same thing again, flashing cursor no booting. i dont get it i tried to restart the computer like 20 times before i changed the ide and it never booted up, then all of a sudden after the new ide it worked. now heres the kicker this is the computer that im on now, when i connected the new ide the master hdd had the jumper set in 3rd place and the slave hdd had it set in first. when the cpu wouldnt reboot after that program install i changed the jumper to the second position (i have the manual for the new master hdd but not the old slave hdd) so i didnt know for sure which jumper position is right. well thats where i got the error that i expected, so i turned of the cpu and took the jumper off completely and restarted it, it loaded windows quicker than i have ever seen it do before. ok so i installed another program that required a reboot and same thing, so i tried the same thing (2nd jumper position restart error no jumper quick windows load) and thats the point im at now. oh and one more thing, before i did anything with the jumpers i disconnected the drive completely because of the fact i didnt have the manual and couldnt remember the jumper setting for slave drive, and i didnt get a single reboot after numerous tries, so then i tried what i described above. so my question is does anyone have an idea as to what all this could mean? why is that back and forth jumper setting getting my windows to load? and how could it all of a sudden load windows so quick? thanks. -props
