i know this probably gets asked all the time, but i would really like some help with this... i'm looking to hopefully get a new desktop pc sometime soon, and i've just heard a few things that lead me to question just how much i really know about picking the right pc parts, so i thought i would ask around and get people's opinions on just what to look for. i would like this new pc to be a great gaming rig, preferrably for the least amount of money. i'm a fan of intel and nvidia, and i would really like this next pc to be able to run games in 3d and in 7.1 surround sound. if possible, it should play games like witcher 2 (new, really awesome looking games) on max graphics, but i would also like to use it for star wars: the old republic (whenever it comes out). it should be easily upgradable (should the need arise), and last as is for a while (i hesitate to use the term &quot;futureproof&quot;). any ideas? also, any recommendations on where to find a 3d monitor, and any recommendations on what customization site to go through? or should i build it myself? keep in mind, i am a beginner at all this. thanks in advance, everyone!!
and you being a beginner my advice is to get it all at one place. i'm not happy as i read posts where folk are complaining about getting their 3d to work. it appears there are not ways to solve their issues without changing video cards or displays so the lesson can cost more than getting a ready to use 3d game machine. bob
i would only recommending building your computer if you have a friend who can supervise. i tried building my own computer, and honestly the building part was easy, it was just the troubleshooting afterwards if something goes wrong, that makes it hard. if you're looking for a good company to build your computer, you might want to try ironside, ironsidecomputers.com. they just started selling online earlier this year, but they do a fantastic job at building computers, and their customer service is great. at least from my own experience.
i agree with grafixdude. i don't know anything about building a computer your self, but i can say that ironside did a great job on my computer. i've had it for awhile now, and so far i haven't had a single problem. in my opinion it was definitely worth the money.
