i have enabled all sharing and disabled passwords on vista. i have put both computers (xp laptop and vista desktop) on workgroup workgroup. my xp can see the printer on the vista machine. i connect (add network printer, or network-printer-connect) to the printer and after 2 dialog boxes (connect to network, and missing correct driver) i click search for driver. i browse to the folder where i unzipped the hp 3600 basic driver application and select the *.inf file. i get an error: incorrect driver. installation failed. following hp's article (  ) about deleting files and then reinstalling is unhelpful also. note: folders are sharing nicely between the two computers. installing printer drivers on xp starts &quot;looking for printer&quot; message which completes the install when it sees the printer on its own usb and only goes offline when the printer is back on the vista usb. reading countless posts on the internet (   ) and here in the cnet forums (  ) has proven unhelpful. i have been wanting to do this for years now and being an it guy with a+ certification, i think that i should know how to do this by now. what am i missing? please help.
the final error message says: windows cannot locate a suitable printer driver. i followed the directions at:  a local printer is installed but i do not get an option to browse for the installed driver. note: on vista, i have passwords disabled for sharing only. accounts all have passwords. also, everything on this printer issue is being done on the administrator accounts.
see if the old trick from  works. that's installing it as a local printer with \\sharename\printername as port. kees
i found information about the x64 print server:  . my vista x64 has a new local port added to the printer, as does the local printer on my xp x86 (same port name). there may be an x64/x86 issue here, according to one poster. on the xp machine, right click on the vista printer seen on the network and clicking on properties required a printer driver install first with a window which allowed me to select the already installed printer driver, but connecting to the printer still requests the driver without giving the option to select an installed driver (and only allows browsing the disk for drivers which it will not accept.
thanks, kees, i read:  then i realized that while i had added a local port to the xp's local printer (there is no printer attached locally, though, as the local installation [add printer on printers and faxes window] was originally done just to get the driver on the xp system and accessible), i had called the port printer_name instead of //server_name/printer_name. i got the server name and printer name from my network places, microsoft windows network. the server is my vista x64 and the printer is the one attached to the vista machine. i would guess that no ports are needed on the vista printer unless i was trying to connect to this machine. adding the port to the local printer installation on the client-side local printer (despite the fact that there is no attached printer to the client xp x86 machine) with the correct syntax successfully resolved this issue. it should be noted that the box next to the added port should be checked and that a box for spooling below the listed ports must be checked to have more than one port box checked at a time. thank you very much for your help.
*i would guess that no additional ports need to be added to the installed printer in the vista printer and fax folder unless i was trying to connect it to a printer on the xp machine; for instance, if i moved the printer to the xp machine. obviously, the xp machine would be the source of the server and printer names to be entered into the port being added to the vista printer found in the vista printer and fax folder.
awesome information. you don't know how long this has been frustrating me. 10x more useful than the default ms file and printer sharing page.
