my floppy drive is extremely slow. it takes &quot;forever&quot; reading a floppy disk. i've tried several different new floppies and it's definitely the drive itself. any ideas?
a &lt; $10 item.
i wouldn't even think about trying to troubleshoot a floppy drive. replace it.
was scanning that diskette. since diskettes are slow already a programming gaffe (never!) in norton caused diskettes to run at less than 1/2 the speed. may happen to other av software too.
doesn't watch &quot;antiques roadshow&quot;. jdm
today's machines. even if it was only 360kb and you multiple up the to by 4 to the 1.44mb today's machines are slower at formatting. this must be an unloved, neglected area. -&gt; but i did cure it. i picked up a 2x sony usb floppy drive. bob
i'm trying to load a program i got off the internet with my windows xp desktop into my windows 95 laptop using a floppy. seems like it can't be done because it always says to reformat the floppy. guess they're completely incompatible with each other? what i'm trying to do is recover old photos off of my laptop that i accidentally deleted. then i'll throw it away.
i'll skip to what i used to get around it. -&gt; i formatted the diskette in xp. bob
doesn't work. i formatted in xp, then loaded a file onto the floppy. then tried it in my win 95 laptop and it wanted to format the disc again. when i clicked no then no file was shown on that drive.
the reason for the incompatibility was traced down to a virus on the 95 boxes. but many forget this stuff. -&gt; the other workaround. go to bootdisk.com and get the dos boot diskette. create it on the xp box, boot that diskette and copy files to said diskette. done. the only issue i could see here is if the owner wasn't from 1995. bob
i followed everything up until booting the diskette,... i copied the files to a floppy off of my desktop - xp. then i rebooted the desktop and it went to drive a:. from there i have no idea what to do.
this means you didn't read the instructions. sorry but you may have to reveal if you are from 1995 where we used the command line, dos commands and such. given you are asking about windows 95 i pegged you as the usual user from that time period. i tried to gracefully note that today's users may be a bit lost but maybe i was too subtle. i also don't provide step by steps when the web sites supply that. -&gt; now run the file that you get from bootdisk.com and it will format the diskette and make the boot disk proper. good luck, bob
i did as the instructions said as such: 1. most of the files above are disk images. download the file to your c: drive, put a fresh disk in your a: drive, then click on the file to create the bootdisk. from there i'm stuck. may be obvious to you but it isn't to me. 95 is when i got the laptop. i am mildly used to working in dos as i haven't bothered with it in eons. but some of the commands i'm familiar with.
it appears you copied the file to the diskette which isn't what i read for the instruction. sorry but you may want to brush up on the dos copy command since it's coming up next. bob
said i copied the file to the disc but didn't. i downloaded the boot6.22 program to the desktop and ran it. then it said put a clean disc in the a drive, which i did. then it copied all these files to the disc.
i can only go by what you tell me. now all you need to do is boot that diskette. again, working with the usual 95 owner they'll know how to do that. or if they forget they'll look in the bios and set the floppy as the boot device. bob
