so i just got a bunch of parts for a computer that i want to build. i finished it and plugged my computer via hdmi to my also new asus monitor and got no display. heard no beeping in the computer and everything sounds like it's running normal. i have tried multiple monitors in the house and different type of connections on my graphics card. i am unsure what to do.
this is my machine: &lt;a href=&quot;  &gt;intel extreme series boxdx58so lga 1366 intel x58 atx intel motherboard&lt;/a&gt; &lt;a href=&quot;  &gt;intel core i7-960 bloomfield 3.2ghz 8mb l3 cache lga 1366 130w quad-core desktop processor bx80601960&lt;/a&gt; &lt;a href=&quot;  &gt;xfx hd-577a-znfc radeon hd 5770 (juniper xt) 1gb 128-bit gddr5 pci express 2.0 x16 hdcp ready crossfirex support video card&lt;/a&gt; &lt;a href=&quot;  &gt;seagate barracuda 7200.12 st31000528as 1tb 7200 rpm 32mb cache sata 3.0gb/s 3.5&quot; internal hard drive -bare drive&lt;/a&gt; &lt;a href=&quot;  &gt;corsair xms3 8gb (4 x 2gb) 240-pin ddr3 sdram ddr3 1333 (pc3 10666) desktop memory model cmx8gx3m4a1333c9&lt;/a&gt; &lt;a href=&quot;  &gt;asus black 24x dvd+r 8x dvd+rw 12x dvd+r dl 24x dvd-r 6x dvd-rw 12x dvd-ram 16x dvd-rom 48x cd-r 32x cd-rw 48x cd-rom 2mb cache sata 24x dvd burner - bulk - oem&lt;/a&gt; &lt;a href=&quot;  &gt;corsair cmpsu-650tx 650w atx12v / eps12v sli ready crossfire ready 80 plus certified active pfc compatible with core i7 power supply&lt;/a&gt;
preview your posts so you can see if all that hard work pays off.
sorry man thanks.
tell the forum about the power connections you used for that video card.
the xfx hd-577a-znfc radeon hd 5770 video card in my machine is plugged into the primary pcie x16 port and the power connection going into the side of the video card is the 6-pin pci-e plug
power off, lift up the video card and firmly send it home again. power up and hope for beeps. bob
i turned off the power supply, took out the video card and then plugged it in, plugged some basic speakers up to the motherboard's green audio output, and heard no beeps and still no display.
hmm, the plot thickens. 1. find that reset button and unplug that. i ran into a few that were shorted out. 2. double check your motherboard control wiring. one motherboard document was incorrect and folk could not boot as they had swapped the reset and the hdd led in the docs. about a 50% rma rate on that one. 3. any ide drives? unplug, retest (each step and idea here.) 4. check the back side of the motherboard. i've encountered a lot of extra mounting bolts shorting out the back side. 5. less is more. to get beeps, no video, memory, hdds, cd/dvds and well, not much is needed. 6. many boards shipped with the cmos clear jumper in the clear position. they stopped doing that due to high return rates (who reads the manuals?) bob
after many unsuccessful attempts i dissasembled my machine and reassembled it on a table. i turn it on with a screw driver by jumping it where the power wire would go. my hard drive and cd/dvd drive are both sata so i have no ide devices. i unplugged everything and just have the processor and mother board running. i am hearing 3 beeps in a row consistently
now one part at a time. power off when changing or adding parts. 1. one stick of ram. beeps. 2. video card, might show the bios screen. ok, back into the case and if no beeps i bet it's the reset switch or too many standoffs. bob
ok my motherboard has 4 slots for ram. 3 of them are blue and the 4th and closest one to the processor is black. i tried my stick of ram in each slot alone and didnt get any beeps. oh and by the way. the video card's box has a 6 pin pci-e connector that splits into two 4 pin ide connectors. i don't know whether to use the power supply's 6 pin pci-e connector to go into the video card, or to use the video card's ide splitter thing.
it's unusual for both to go bad. as to the video power we are not ready for that yet but i use the power supply's pci-e power connector first and if there is none, then i use the other adapter. bob
i bought four 2gb ddr3 sticks of memory and they all give no beeps in each slot alone. and still no video. i thought the card might not be getting enough power but i bought a 650w power supply and the newegg power supply calculator said in the lower 500w range.
as we add ram it could take longer to produce beeps but i am guessing that you tried one stick of ram have double checked all jumpers and that clear cmos one as well. did the motherboard appear to be new or second hand? bob
and the feedback looks like others have had dead boards. call it dead and get another. bob
every part of my machine is brand new. i only have 1 stick of ram in at a time. what are jumpers and cmos?
i tried putting my ati radeon 5770 in my other factory built computer and could get display there either. how can i be sure if the motherboard is dead and not just a faulty graphics card?
all skill levels show up here. i can't know if you have never seen a jumper setting or heard about cmos or bios settings.  is the home page of this board. page 39 of  (the manual) shows which slot to install one stick of ram. page 42 tells you which of the two pcie slots to use for the video card. page 54 shows four power connections for this board (did you get them all?) page 55 shows &quot;setting the bios configuration jumper&quot;. sorry if anything upsets you. this is not my intention. bob
could or could not? let's use that motherboard manual to check our work so far.
i read page 39 and i was putting my 2gb ddr3 stick of memory in the correct (channel c) slot. i did, however, notice that the description of the memory to be inserted into channel c shows &quot;1 gb, 1333mhz.&quot; i am using a 2gb stick as i do not have any 1gb sticks. so i dont know if that could be a problem. i also read page 42 and i am also correctly placing my graphics card in the correct (primary pci express x16) slot. now page 54 could be the main problem. i used the manual for plugging the power supply connectors into the motherboard. i saw that there were four slots to be plugged. i plugged the 24-pin connector into the slot, the 8-pin connector into the slot, and the sata connector into its slot. i see the fourth slot is an ide connector slot but i could not locate it on the motherboard. i do see where it would have been on the motherboard but it is simply an outline drawn on the board. the slot is missing or not there. as for page 55, i see the prongs of the bios settings but there is no &quot;jumper&quot; figure plugged into the prongs.
if the bios jumper is missing all bets are off about the board working. find a spare jumper (or just ask the seller for it) and install it per the manual. can you supply the link to the proper manual? bob
i found a spare jumper from my other desktop and placed it in the 1-2 configuration for normal. i used the same manual that you posted.
yes that indeed was a typo i am very sorry for the confusion. my other desktop has a pci express x16 slot and i placed my radeon 5770 in it and received no video.
i've found many miss that.
maybe between power connections, a missing jumper and that video card you were battling multiple issues. any other video card now that you have the jumper in? bob
ok so i am super happy because something finally was displayed. i had the jumper in 1-2 normal config and the video card plugged to the monitor via hdmi and there was no display. so then i plugged the video card to the moitor via dvi and got soemthing to display. it reads, &quot; the system bios has detected unsuccessful post attempt(s). possible causes inclue recent changes to bios performance options or recent hardware changed. press 'y' to enter bios setup or press 'n' to cancel and attempt to boot with previous settings.&quot;
where do i go from here? press &quot;y&quot; to change bios settings? i am unsure of how to continue.
then change the bios settings so that it works. what else? kees
well i don't have a usb keyboard and my motherboard has no ps/2 slots so i went to fry's electronics and purchased a female ps/2 to male usb adapter so that i could use my ps/2 keyboard with my machine via usb. but when i plug it into the usb slot and press 'y' nothing happens. num lock, caps lock, & scroll lock do not display their lit up led's so i'm assuming the machine isn't detecting the keyboard. why is it not working?
when i power on the machine, all 3 led lights (scroll, caps, num lock) blink once so the kayboard is getting power but it won't work when i press y?
if it doesn't respond to yes then try the other 3 usb ports. and try other keyboards. bob
see the settings for your cpu. next time you try this .... bench test the components outside the case with a normal monitor. there's no point installing all the components in the case only to find they don't work at all. vapcmd
those adapters rarely work.  is one that is about a buck more and works. bob
i will keep that in mind if i ever try this again or have any other problems. thanks man.
they definitely rarely work haha. thanks
thank you so much r. proffitt for taking the time to walk me through each step until my new rig finally worked. i am posting this reply on it right now! i appreciate the time you set aside to help me. thanks
(typos for example!) it's been so long since i encountered a video card that didn't boot up to the hdmi display that i had forgotten about those early hdmi cards. sorry but that was just a few years ago and i ran into all of two of those. glad to see you got your machine sorted out. bob
