i just got an hp pavilion a6157c desktop with vista premium home, e4400 processor (2.0ghz), 320 hard drive, 2gb ram, integrated intel 950 accelerator graphics &quot;card&quot;. i downgraded from hp a6077c w/ nvidia 7500le card, because of monitor issues and keyboarding issues that kept being unresolved. i saved $300, but am now having trouble loading my yahoo browser email. i freeze. is this due to my graphics &quot;card&quot; (chip is more appropriate)?????? how do i resolve this.
doesn't have an effect on that, sounds like a connection issue maybe? what browser are you using?
yahoo is the browser, but i need to go through internet explorer to get to it. with vista, i don't have a dedicated icon anymore like i did with xp, why? i don't know. should i download a newer version of ie? i'm running the latest (7x).
it might not be vista compatable, which might explain why it isn't working. if all you're wanting is the icon back, just right click on the .exe and create a shortcut, and drag that onto your desktop. also, i'd generally suggest firefox or opera as web browsers.
i never went through firefox. i generally use ie, because most systems come equipped that way. is it better? how? where can i download it? c-net? free?
which was the basis for a supreme court case involving microsoft and the doj. firefox is entirely free, cnet might have it on download.com (probably does). but  also works. i'm not sure what your actual problem is, given that i don't understand your explanation of using the yahoo browser &quot;through&quot; internet explorer. if you mean the yahoo toolbar thats a different thing.
i just want to say firefox has solved a lot of my browser issues. (i was using the term &quot;browser&quot; wrong in the previous post, sorry). i got rid of ie, and downloaded the latest firefox, imported my yahoo toolbar, etc...and wow! things are soooooooooooooo much faster!!! no hanging, no freezing! amazing!!!! i wish i knew about firefox before. even the typing issues i've had in the past have gone away! i knew it had something to do with my homepage, but i was assuming it was because of yahoo, not ie. what makes firefox so superior to ie?????
