i have a few questions about netbooks. i want to buy one in a few days and am a bit confused about there power. can someone answer these questions. this is the netbook i was thinking about getting (  ). 1. can we put more ram into it? 2. can it play divx movies and tv shows? 3. there is one game that i want it to play. it's an old game but i'm not sure if it has the power to play it. it is called fitness yourself and can be found at  . if you look at the requirements they are for very old computers. that's why i am hoping i can run it. my plan is to hook up to a monitor and do all of the above. is this possible or am i expecting too much out of a netbook?
i own an acer aspire one with 1gb ram, xp and found no reason to add ram. 2. hulu and such play fine. i'm sure some divx file won't play but i've seen that happen on laptops, desktops all over so my answer will be that no one can tell you yes here. 3. with an external monitor my kid played many games. and by enabling pan and scrolling (not going to tell you how here!) he played games on the road. 4. just yesterday i did hours of presentations on our netbook. yup it was an external. in closing i can't seem to use that link. why not just post make and model? bob
toshiba 10.1&quot; intel atom n280 1.66ghz laptop (nb200-002)
it was fine but they felt it was a little pricey. you pay for the slimmer form over the acer models.
i have found 2 different versions of this netbook. 1 has a 3 cell and the other has a 6 cell. there is a $70.00 difference. can netbook batteries be upgraded or is it risky?
you find you may pay more than 70 later. how to do the upgrade? turn the power off, slide out the old battery, slip in the new one. bob
thank you for very much for your assistance. i have looked at the acer models and they are missing a few things that i need. i haven't found one that has vga, bluetooth, and a large battery like this one. small size doesn't really matter that much. i just don't want it to be the size of the laptop. i also like this one because it has the new atom processor. i have a feeling i am going to need some heavy processing. not really that heavy but the more power i can get the better.
vga port and the bluetooth was a nano usb thing. if you start down the road of cpus and more you may as well buy a laptop. are you sure you want a netbook? i own the acer so i can address performance and real world battery times. see the 3 smaller bluetooth usb things at  bob
i need something ultra portable with a long battery life. i have tried bluetooth adapters before and they all fall short of what i need. mostly because i forget them at places but also it's an add-on and i really hate add-ons. the same goes for the webcam. i had separate webcams but having one built in the computer is pretty sweet. processing speed is absolutely important. it's a computer no matter how you look at it. otherwise they would install windows mobile, or android. it is equally important to know how much ram it can take because it's a computer. same goes with hard drive space. i have had this netbook for 2 days and am really impressed with what i can do with it. it goes far beyond being able to view websites and writing documents like the advertisements say. i based that initially off of the specs but it was confirmed when i bought the device.
