greetings; i need a new graphics card with an hdmi port. have a refurbished lenovo with: pentium e2140 1.6 ghz processor lenovo mb - lpcio; chipset: intel 946pl/gz southboard: 82801 gb bios: 2qkt22aus graphics: intel 946gz ddr2 memory - 2gb none of this really means anything to me! but i'm reasonably confident i can install a new card . . . took computer data from cpu-z software - recommended somewhere here i'm only going to watch internet video (tv networks and netflix) with this computer - connected to a 1080 hd samsung tv. that's it! don't need anything special; but have no idea how to find a graphics card that's compatible with mb thanks in advance let me know if i forgot some spec you need happy holidays! kelly
but look at the usual ati 5450 1gb low profile compatible card you find for 30 bucks at newegg. it's a sleeper of a card that has hdmi and enough oomph without need to change the power supply in all the boxes i've seen. bob
does the interface type matter? how would i figure this out if i had to know? if i'm looking at the right card - it says pci express 2.1; and ddr3 memory .. does it have it's own memory boy i really don't know anything about this . . .. ;- ) thanks kelly
you supplied quite a few details. maybe i missed which lenovo it is. sorry but the card's memory is only of interest to those that dissect cards. here we need a video card. the memory could be ddr, static or core and it would not matter to the host pc. bob
it's refurbished (joy systems) - so i'm not sure that the components are original - it could actually be 'rebuilt' - with some other components but this was the description: lenovo ibm thinkcentre m55e desktop pc - intel dual-core 1.6ghz, 2gb ddr2, 80gb hdd, dvd-rom, windows 7 home premium 32-bit, also - won't buy from newegg anymore - nothing but headaches with ups lost shipment . . . but found this at tigerdirect:  looks very similar and heck of a deal . . kelly
you own the machine so you can find the exact m55e you own. there were a dozen on my search and all seemed to the pcie slot. bob
will let you know how it works out! thanks so much and have a wonderful winter solstice - christmas holiday season!! kelly
do i need to figure out what type of usb port i have (2.0? 3.0?) before i buy an external hd? thanks kelly
there are dozens so i can't check them all. if i was betting it would be 2.0 because 3.0 was out later. bob
