my laptop says its getting signal from the router, but when i look at the connection status, it shows that its sending but not recieving &quot;packets.&quot; my other laptop's wireless connection works fine. i think i may have activated the &quot;share internet connection&quot; function by accident, which the help menu says is a no-no. can someone help me out?
i have the same problem. by the way i've found in my dos &quot;ipconfig&quot; the media state is disconnected. have you solved the problem? i have win xp pro thanks for your help. rachel
i did actually find the problem. it seemed that when i changed the settings that the wep key reset, so it wasn't the right one being used by my wireless network. i found it out by accident as i was trying everything in my power to fix it, but hey, it worked. have you tried that yet? good luck on fixing your connection.
please clarify where you changed the wep key settings on laptop or router. how to do this. thank you.
i need help with this problem as well. i am using windows xp home edition on a laptop and xp profesional on a pc. i recently set up a netgear wireless router and it all worked fine for about a week. then last night, i dont know what happened but it all went wrong on both computers. i have managed to fix it on the pc but the laptop wont work. i only have one wireless usb connection that i swapped between the computers when i wanted to use the internet. the laptop says that it is connected, but it is revieving 'packets' for some reason. i cant connect propperly to the internet. it wont lest me use any of programes for the internet (microsoft or other). i have seen this wep thing somewhere whilst trying to fix it but i cant remember where i seen it. i have been trying all day now and it is really starting to p*ss me off. can somebody please help as i am tempted to just abandon technology all together.
in my laptop wireless network is connected but signal not recieving. packets sending properly not recieving packets. so i can't access my network and internet connection. thats why now i am using a local area connection. please help me.
