hi, was hoping somebody could help me - i'm so confused. anyway, i have two pentium desktop pc's (one compaq 8000 and the other a dell xps) - these two pc's are both side by side in the same desktop worksurface. i would like to be able to transfer photos from pc to pc as well as some date. i would like to be able to have my (usb) kodak camera cradle (or dock) work with both desk tops, my printer is a hp 960 parallel port... my scanner is a visioneer usb. also maybe some side by side racing (or gaming) with my kids. i don't need really need wireless because all my wiring is together. was hoping there were some plug and play solutions to setup a simple network. i have no plans of adding more pc's to the mix. if someone could tell me what items i need to buy that would be greatly appreciated. i have no problem with installing cards if need be... there are to many varaible to be guessing at this and the kids at best buy are no help. thank you litegide24@yahoo.com
you could do wireless networking for a really good solution. what os are your computers, do they have nic's, if they do then you could make your own crossover cable:  and connect the two computers directly together, but if they are old then you might have trouble. if you do decide to use wireless networking then i can help you set up folder sharing and other things.
hi, thanks for replying. they both run xp home. the compaq 8000t is a build to order pentium 4 2.4 processor. it has a.llot of the bells and whistles and is 2 years old. the dell xps is two days old, it's a pentium 4 2.8 processor although it really has no extra ports in the back other than the dvi for the monitor and about 6 usb openings. how do i know if they have a nick card - the compaq might very well. i could email photos oth the backs of the pc's as they sit. i just took some pictures because i just built this desk for the pc's and wired all last night. thanks litegide24@yahoo.com
thanks for the link, i just made up a cable similar to that - took a cat 5 cable about 70 feet long and ran it from my router to my sons xbox. very tideous without the crimp tool, i borrowed the tool from work and it went great!
if you have a router this shouldn;t be too tough at all. once each of the computers are connected to the router, enable the ipx/spx protocol on both computers nic properites and then file sharing, printer sharing, and multiplayer gaming are much easier.
hi, thanks for the reply. i have a 4 port linksys router. i wasn't sure where to find the nic properties so i went to do a search on my first pc (the compaq 8000t) file search revealed a folder names nic, i right clicked and selected properties and there was the general/sharing/customize tabs... on the sharing tab there was a box - ''network and sharing box'' and the network setup wizard. i believe this is what you said to do - correct? i didn't follow thru w/the wizard because i wanted to see if i could do this on both pc's. now on the new dell xps p4 2.8 i did the same search and there were allot more folders, most of which were sonic... and i think they're all software related... i didn't see a folder named ''nic'' like on the compaq? although if i right click on the properties tab on any of the file folders in the search results i am able to see the same general/sharing/customize tabs... i was alittle confused as to why every folder would give me network sharing capabilities. is it possible this dell pc doesn't have this capability? the router connectivity sounds ideal, i hope i can make it work, i can also purchase and install a nic card if need be. thank you
a network interface card (nic) is a piece of hardware almost every computer (especially new ones) have. this is purely the connection point for your ethernet cables. to access your network adapter's porperties in windows xp, open your control panel, select network connections, find your active local area network connection and open it. in the window that comes up click the properties button and you will be in the place described earlier. to add the ipx/spx protocol, just click the button that says install, choose protocol and click ok, then choose the netbeui ipx/xpx protocol and click install. do this for both machines and then connect them to your router. if done correctly, all of the sharing settings should be all but automatic.
is now enabled in both machines. i tried to print from the dell (which does not have a printer hooked up and kept getting message that said &quot;file to print was deleted&quot;? is there a way where i can see the other computer...went to my computer and didn't see anything either... maybe i'm looking in all thew wrong places. although i feel i'm getting some where. thanks
does the file sharing work? i have never personally done a direct connection thing, but kind of know about it. if the network is set up then go to my network places and the other computer should be there. also both domains have to be the same(i think, again i don't know if you have to on a direct connection) but on a wireless network they have to be the same, to check, right click my computer and then click computer name, it will say domain: then whatever is here has to be the same on both comps. tell me if that helps!
to directly connect one computer to another, you must first set a static ip on each computer from the same subnet. 192.168.0.x x being different for each computer. once that's done, you should see each computer, but if you access through a router, you just need to leave your tcp/ip settings at obtain automatically.
