i have purchased a separate adsl ethernet modem (d-link dsl-300t) and a wireless router (linksys wireless g). i would like to be able to access the internet from my laptop (which is wifi enabled)anywhere in the house. all the manuals indicate that once the modem is connected to the router, i need to connect the router to my laptop using an ethernet cable. my laptop therefore has to be connected to the wireless router with an ethernet cable, which doesn't seem very wireless to me! could someone please let me know how i can have the modem and router in one room, and access the internet from my laptop in another room? a friend of mine can do this with his mac setup (a mac laptop and airport extreme modem/router).
but to setup the router, a wired connection is used. once that's done it will run fine without the connection. i wonder how you would get the internet without a network since the internet is a network. bob
your wireless connection on the router? if the laptop will access the router you're done. mine works perfectly. did the router come with any instructions? have you installed it properly? have you contacted linksys? but do not attempt any router maintenance wireless, use the cord. set everything up wired, then unplug and go wireless.
the computer that you desire to have connected wirleessly must have a wireless network adapter that is compatible with your wireless router. diagram: internet ---- adsl modem ---- wireless-g router ~ ~ ~ wireless-g network adapter ---- wired ~ ~ ~ wireless as others have stated, you must configure your router with a wired connection first.
do you have any idea what a network is? how can you have wireless internet (a network) without having a network? if you would read your instructions... you connect your computer {via ethernet} to the router to perform the setup. then you disconnect the computer (laptop) and connect the router to your modem. enable your wireless adapter on your laptop, and you are good to go. note: if it still doesn't work correctly, try a complete power cycle. 1)power off computer, power off router, power off modem. ---leave off for at least 30 sec.--- 2) power on modem, power on router, power on computer. just so you know: that is a network.
''do you have any idea what a network is?'' ''how can you have wireless internet (a network) without having a network?'' sound like you have a problem. he's asking a question ''expert'' and really doesn't need your -1cent. do you know what a phone is? answer that.
any idea to apply this to prevent others from interloping? its already set up and working....just cant figure out how to go back and apply this security.....i see many attempts to connect trend micro's thru my wifi detector.
