the computer that i use at my home won't start intitially when i switch it on. the led lights are there bt no display in my monitor. however, if i keep the computer on like this (i.e. with no display) and restart it again after like 5 mins then it would go till the windows xp logo n than crash again....and if i reboot it (by pressing reset ofcourse) after another 5 mins later i would finally hav the desktop and only than can i work. plz help!!!!!! qomarf ps: pc config- 1.8 ghz p4, 512 ram, windows xp pro sp2
you could have a weak or failing psu(power supply) or the infamous bad caps on mtrbd.. google(for example) for bad caps, but inspect the mtrbd. for leaking, distorted or bulging caps(capacitors). since, you have a 1.8mhz system that suggests you had it for awhile as that's dated and/or been around. in that time the psu has aged and possibly on its last legs. the bad caps is known problem from bad manufacture of caps. in either case, replace, i suggest the psu, first unless you see bad caps. tada -----willy
hopefully i wud b able to use the information....i changed my psu 6 months bak...do u think changing it again wud help?? can u plz provide me some more info on bad caps (y do this happen n wut r the remedies)...do i needta chnge my mtrbrd??
take out that new psu and put back in the old one. does the same thing happen?
my old psu gt completely busted...it gt burnt quite bad 6 months ago..i dnt thnk i can get tht bak.
sine you mentioned you replaced the old psu 6mos. ago you maybe experiencing a 2ndary problem. the final act of a dying system. i can't guarantee the new psu will fix it, it's just a course of action to take when the system won't power-on. all too often when a burnt psu as you say, it could very well weaken or stress or outright take another compoment or device with it, if not now, later. try:  for examples. yes, a bad caps situation can be corrected, but only if you're capable and/or allow a local source to fix it. if outside repair, it maybe more practical to just buy another mtrbd.. for money better spend. tada -----willy
