hey people first of all apologies if this is in the wrong section, i was a little confused to where to create a ew topic and thought this would be the best place but mods please remove if you feel necessary. i was hoping someone could offer me a little support regarding trying to add my new tv/monitor as my secondary monitor to my pc, ideally what i want is when you add a second monitor to your laptop as an extended monitor that is what i require. is this possible? if so how? would i need to purchase an additional graphioc card for my pc? could you recommend me one? or could i purchase something like a vga splitter which i would plug in the back of my vga slot and it would have two female vga connections? thank you.
but without a make or model that's as far as i can go. all the office and home laptops do this.
i'm thinking of investing in a hdmi pci card as my tv/monitor has a hd connection. so all i need to do is add this pci card to my motherboard and then buy a hdmi cable? and connect the cable from the pc to the tv? the only query i have regarding this is that would my pc sound also come out of my tv? that is ideal for me. i know i could have gone down the easy route of getting a vga connection for my pc but the hdmi graphics will be better and i might get sound.
no laptops today have pci connections. also, any usb video is far too slow to play video such as dvd or games. but about hdmi. a few of the newer laptops in the office have hdmi and those can ship sound over hdmi. but again i can't see a make and model so the discussion runs flat. bob
sorry but this is not a laptop, im talking about my custom built dektop pc.
looking over pci cards i didn't find any i could find assurance that audio would go over hdmi. would running audio the old fashioned way be so bad?
are you saying you don't have 2 vga/dvi outputs on your graphics card? if not i would have thought it would be better to have 2 as i don't think you can split 1 output. bear in mind though that when you have dual-screens (extended desktop) it can have a performance impact on games i.e. tearing on screen etc. so you're better off turning the extended desktop off if you play games.
i saw this at fry's on today paper. it's call &quot;vga video splitter&quot; with 4 ports up to 1920x1440 resolution and it's made by iogear. $45 with $10 instant saving. i did see another devices for such purpose but i forgot the name or where i have seen it. so it's out there. this one could be use as clone or display extension.
