hello, i am running with a geforce ti-4200 card on a abit kg7 motherboard. for years, if i try to enter a game without letting the machine run for 10 minutes, the video goes into pyscho colors mode and i have to reset. temperatures are fine within case and cpu. suspecting the 300w psu, i upgraded to a good 400w with no change. downloaded latest nvidia drivers - no change. i swapped with video card with another (geforce 256) in another older pc and both pcs work fine. so, i believe i have some quirky compatibility issue between the mb and the ti4200. i would like to get a 6600gt card but would i be throwing away money since the mb only supports agp 4x?
&quot; i try to enter a game without letting the machine run for 10 minutes, the video goes into pyscho &quot; i swap the motherboard in this case. you can research the terms bad motherboard capacitors to see this issue, but the symptom is consistent with bad caps. bob
thanks, i had thought about that. i have a little more information now. after switching video cards in my two pcs, the problem reared its ugly head again on the pc with ti4200 card. i guess its time to buy a new one.
i bought a xfx 6600gt card (to replace a ti4200 that was failing with increased frquency) and placed in my abit kg7 mb. updated bios and northbridge drivers and thoroughly cleaned the ti4200 nvidia drivers. new board works until i try to play video using windows media player (video all green) or games like battlefield 1942 or half life2, where the graphics are viewable but messed up (color and images). i tried the latest nvidia drivers and now the video goes black when the windows desktop loads. any suggestions?
1. boot safe mode to either set the video mode to something that your monitor likes or remove the new drivers. 2. your issues still reverberate with the usual issues of motherboard caps and too small or old power supplies. did you try a new 450 watt or larger supply? bob
i tried a new motherboard (soyo) and everything works great! i don't believe it was a cap issue, but some quirk between the agp2.0 slot on the kg7 and 6600 gt card.
