i have purchased two of the above monitors and have waited 4 months for my rebate. based on what i have, read i guess i will never see it. as to the quality of the monitor, it has performed without any problems for me and one other employee. i am not picky about how true the colors are so i cannot comment on that subject, but functionally, it has been fine. i have nothing to say that it is exceptional nor anything to say that is poor. rcs
i have the same monitor. it's a reasonable monitor, excellent for price. i did wish it had some more options with regard to turning the monitor up and down and around, but its been fine. i never recieved my rebate either, which is highly dissapointing, maybe this is an issue others are having? the monitor only have with one dead pixel, which as i understand it, is much less than the industry average. i'm happy with it. if you want more reviews, go to newegg.com, its been reveiwed hundred's of times.
but i would absolutely not accept a monitor with any dead pixels. it just shouldnt happen. i once bought an lcd on the internet that had three. i returned it and the lady told me an lcd could have up to eight dead pixels. just ridiculous. now i have a samsung without a single dead pixel thank heavens. i once got a kodak digital camera that had a dead pixel on the screen. returned it for another. these items are not cheap, and if you can find items without dead pixels why settle for one with them. im sorry about your pixel, but - if it were me -i would zip the monitor back to where i bought without any hesitation. even exchange it rather than to settle for it. the rebate thing to. i mean id call the president of fuji if i had to. it used to be that the customer is always right. now, we do the big boys a favor just buying from them. no respect for the purchaser anymore. cheap quality, service and greed. monitors are good to buy at big box stores just for that very reason. id wear the place out if i had to to get satisfaction.
well thats what happens when you buy a monitor from a company like fujiplus. i mean, have you ever heard of fujiplus? my second monitor is a 20&quot; hp lcd and i dont have one dead pixel. i think industry standard is that they will replace monitors if they have 6 dead pixels or more.
