hi! i just bought the above. have some questions. 1) which usb 2.0 hard disk should i buy? i need a hard disk of 300gb for home surveillance video recording and from netgear's website there's no such compatible hard disk capacity. take 100gb for 7hrs of video recording. 2) can i just use any usb 2.0 casing with any 300gb hard disk for this purpose as it is cheaper than say to buy maxtor onetouch ii 300gb? btw, is the maxtor onetouch ii compatible with the router? 3) is it true that even if you have a compatible hard disk the usb 2.0 performance fall very short of expectation?
at the office we have 10 cameras and the 40gb drive holds 4 days of surviellance for all 10 cameras. we take one frame per second on all time and use a lightwieght compression setting. what are you using? bob
hi! thanks for the reply. actually, my quote of 100gb for 7hrs of video recording was taken from the box of the maxtor onetouch ii 300gb hard disk at the shop. so, i'm not very sure too. may be 300gb is too large for my home use. are you suggesting that, say, 80gb would be adequate for a day or 2 video recording via 2 nos x 24hrs of wireless internet cameras? i'm open to suggestions. thanks again
the compression chosen. since we get many days on 10 cameras at 1 frame per second, i think there is hope your recording will fit. but not revealed in your post are your settings or test results. i've shared mine. bob
hi! frankly speaking i've not bought my dlink wireless internet cameras yet. my first step is to get a storage router which i have now. next is to buy an external hard disk follow by the dlink wireless internet cameras. i'm intending to set up a simple home surveillance system whereby i can see remotely and record for say 24hrs a day.
i had the dlink wireless camera and there is a fatal flaw in that design. here's the flaw. set it all up as the wireless link and start recording. hunkey dorey and all is well. now, remove power to the camera, count to 10 and put the power back to the camera. the software locked up on the pc and no more recording. this is not worth buying. bob ps. i'm sure you've read the forum tip. if you can, in the future tell more about what you are doing and with what parts, forum members can be very helpful. as you can see, i found the camera to be a &quot;dud&quot;.
hi! thanks again. i'm not sure which dlink camera you used but i intend to buy the dlink dcs-6620g, here:-  btw, can you help with the netgear storage router and hard disk issue? thanks
as to the storage issue. i already noted that we get many days out of a 40gb drive and 10 cameras. if we get that, wouldn't this be a good answer to your 2 camera recording? if you won't take my warning about the software issue, at least get it in writing what your return options are since it's likely you may not believe this issue till you experience it first hand. good luck with this. bob
