my dad's pc is driving me (and him) absolutey mad.it's a gigabyte ga71xe-4 with a atlon thunderbird (850) and 576mb ram. it also has a hercules prophet 8500le, a 20gb maxtor and it's in a modded case. basically everytime the pc is booted up, it crashes on the xp splash screen, i think it's at the hardware detection part (where the optical mouse and keyboard flash). it used to require turn off from the plug, and after restart would load windows normally, but now it does it twice, allways following the same pattern, i have tried re-installing windows many times but to no avail, what shall i do, most parts of the pc are 5+ years old so i would not be suprised if something is not working, but what?
&quot;.it's a gigabyte ga71xe-4 with a atlon thunderbird (850) and 576mb ram. it also has a hercules prophet 8500le, a 20gb maxtor and it's in a modded case.&quot; and... &quot;most parts of the pc are 5+ years old so i would not be suprised if something is not working, but what?&quot; the old athlons created headaches even years ago with the way the cpu would take giant gulps of power. the power supplies had to be updated. an aging supply could be the cause. since it's under the 1ghz mark, any 350 watt supply will do. could be under 20 bucks to remove this from the issues list. bob
open the case and look and clean out. bad capacitors, the large ones located in the vicinity of the cpu, look for puffed up ones or leaky goo around the bottom of the caps. the vintage of your machine is a candidate for this one. power supply going bad.
no, it can't be any of these things, i have tried several psu's, and the current is for a pentium 4, so there should be no problems there, and the case has 4 case fans and a better than stock fan/heasink, so my cpu is only 40oc, i was given an idea about hard disk rotation speed, any more ideas? no leaks capacitors e.t.c
the athlon 800 is well known to me and you never revealed the models of power supplies you fitted. my bet is they were all 300 or less watts. in closing, you need to run this memory test.  what failures do you find? bob
psions along with the other suggestions. more than one memory chip? run memory test provided and reduce to one chip. un-plug all devices and remove cards. check bios for up-date. run mnf diagonstic on hdd. &quot;i have tried re-installing windows many times but to no avail, what shall i do,&quot; you can do this till the cows come home... won't do you any good till the bad hardware is found. bill
have two separate 12 volt rails one is wasted ]so is its power capacity] in that system because the mobo regulators get fed from 3.3 volts. there's no place to plug in the 4 pin 12 volt connector.
i will have to wait till i am back at my parent huse then i will do the memory test, and post the results.
ran into a problem, his pc doesen't have a floppy drive, i never really thought it would ever be needed, the age of the floppy is over really, though some may disagree, are there any other programs/alternatives to memtest 86?
tip#4 at
