ok i have a dell e520 series. long story short my old pc died and had to use my student loan money and had to order from dell or hp. ok so i have 2.8ghz intel core 2 duo 256mb xfx 8600gts (added) 3gb of ram (added) windows vista home premium 32bit and the crappy mobo they give you is basically bottle necking my proformance so i want to upgrade my mobo but to do that, i need to get a new cpu fan, psu, and case because dell make everything just for there parts. well none of that is the issue, my issue is if i get a new motherboard and plug in the hard-drive i am using right now will my current vista system work? will the vista reinstallation dvd that came with the system work? ive herd so many un-sure and mixed answers that i want to be 100% sure before i spend money on these parts.
still a maybe. it shouldn't work since the license is only for the dell but you read that some succeed. dell's answer should be &quot;no.&quot; as to the bottleneck the only one i see is the 8600 card. gamers usually go for the 8800. bob
well im not looking to play crysis and i dont have any need for an 8800 yet. but the memory speed and pcie speed on my motherboard are so bad that i cant hit any benchmarks that my computer should be able to hit. i called dell and the guy i talked to said it would work but the people they have working there arnt the brightest in the world.
if you get a different brand of motherboard, your current windows won't load, so re-intalling windows is a must. i have tried to use the xp installation that comes with dell on my other pc, but the cd's protection didn't allow me to do it. on another note, keep in mind that a lot of these installation disks that come with dell, sony, or toshiba computers are not actual windows instalation disks; they are image disks. so, they probably (almost certain) won't work on your new mobo. the kind of control that you want to have over the different parts in your pc is not easy to accomplish when you are working with a &quot;package&quot; pc built by dell or any other manufacturer.
thank you so much your are the first person to answer my question
you want to upgrade your mtrbd, thus that tells me you want to keep the mtrbd.. if not, then you replace the mtrbd. you will have problems. as the other poster mentioned, you will need a new os install cd, as most oem type cds provide install only for the system or brand they were sold under. while you can swap much of the old system(h/w) to a new mtrbd. you're stuck getting the drivers when the new os has been installed. vista, being a pita if you stay with it, may not have vista available drivers from their vendors once you correctly id the proper drivers needed. if you stay with the old mtrb. and the whole purpose was to reduce or remove bottleneck, then really what was the point if you blame the mtrbd. as the bottleneck fault. be sure to check dell's support website for any bios updates that may address some issues and if they apply to you, then you need them. hopefull, that may address yopur bottleneck issue. tada -----willy
