i want a printer for low usage - inkjet or cheap color laser ($400) - low usage-about 10 pages a month - moderate quality- for childrens color pictures and quick printing photos - not high quality photos - i do those thru a service - cost of supplies &lt; $150 per year my problem has been that inkjet cartridges seem to dry out in 1 or 2 months, whether they are used or not. this leads to a yearly cost of $300, much too high. the cost per page in reviews never seem to consider this issue - will a color laser cartidge last more than a year? - are there inkjets that will last 3 months?
just forget about inkjets in general at the rate you print. you can then look at laser printers. but, because you want cheap then cheap is it. look no further than the price because many offer decent output but again, your results are what you pay for. most seek fantastic color but well within acceptable results for many users. just about all brands have a bottom-end model that fit under $300 or less. look for sales or online offerings than meet your needs. the starter toner cart may last a yr. but it will deplete sooner only because its a small amount compared to replacement and cost should fit your wallet. if you like you may want to try kinko's(or similar) a office/copy center that with your file or original form will reproduce at roughly 10-15cent per page. use this when in a pinch. tada -----willy
thanks
for such purposes (and, in fact, higher volume in black text) i'm happy with a cheap canon printer, especially the older types for which you can buy compatible cartridges and replace the printhead yourself (i had to do that once). cartridges and printheads come separately. in the unlikely case the printhead is clogged (won't happen if you print each week, use the original cartridge, and leave the printer connected to the mains) you can find (non-canon) cleaning cartridges. i had to use one of those recently after using a refilled cartridge (not sure that was the cause, however). all other cartridges (original or compatible alike) i could use till they were totally empty. i also like the driver support for concept quality and printing half size (2 pages on one sheet) for text. kees
i have four printers of varying price and the best is the lowest cost. paid $49 for an epson c62 the cartridges (2) are sold on line for $4.25 and the printing quality is very good. i have all price ranges of printers and mainly print photos.
