i gave my old computr to my son when i bought a new system. the problem is he has started playing the online game runescape but he say's it is always lagging and runs too slow, when i gave him the pc i reformatted so he was left with a clean computer (well cleanish) ive run antivirus +anti spyware well everything really.i wanted to know if it was worth me upgrading components or just putting up with me having to go on the old pc when he wants to play games. here is as much detail as i could find. 500mb ram 80 hard drive.processor:via samual 2 796 mhz. system model:pvcle 266 syst type x86-based pc.bios version american megatrends inc. vers 07.00t smbios:version 2.3 the sound and video cards are itegrated. ps. the motherboard is mercury
while it's light on power consumption i have to write it's not suitable for games. even if i were to install a 3d card this cpu is not about games but for running at very low wattage. sorry but it is what it is. don't upgrade it. bob
will adding extra ram help at all
it's still too little for today's games. i had hoped to save you from what could be a frustrating exercise. again, i find it a great low power consumption machine for a low speed file server but gaming is not in it's future. bob
thanks, much appreciated. just thought it might speed it up a little to get him off my pc.
the onboard solution is too slow for games. if you can find any 3d card like a fx5200 or better that's a swift kick in the graphics area. bob
again thanks for your help much appreciated.
me again bob, i found a video card ( obviously not purchased yet)it is the nvidia geforce fx 5200 ddr 128mb agp vo i just wanted to know since you have the same system will it be compatible, i tried to find out with google but could not find an answer. ps: i saw something about you need to be agp compatable ? is that the screen power connection.
some do and some don't have agp. for the ones that didn't have agp you have to search for pci cards. use google.com to research what these slot types look like if you need to. bob
hi again, i downloaded the motherboard manual and it said there are 2 pci slots for pci 2.2 1 vgaport and 1 internal agp 4x so does that mean i can use either or just the empty pci slots.
you use those. newegg has some pci fx5200 cards or better such as...  my kid played most games on his 5500 (although it was agp) bob
last question i hope bob, in the manual it says 2x 32 bit slots do i have to have 2x 32 bit or one 64 0r doesn't the bit size matter because all i have seen is the 128 bit.
unless it's built by the nsa for some dark project your slots are good old pci... bob
thanks again, will give it a go and tell you if i have my pc back off my son
