i am using 2 nic cards and a direct connection with no router or hub. both computers have modems. the problem is when the device driver &quot;ndis.vxd&quot; tries to load the driver (for ics) icshare.vxd, the device refuses to load. (this information comes from the bootlog). i also have the horrible little yellow exclamation point in the device manager (computer/network adapters/internet connection sharing). i can load a new driver for the ics adapter in &quot;device manager&quot; all day long (also tried icshare.inf fix from microsoft), but the yellow exclamation point never dies. and the device still refuses to load. i am 90% sure that nothing is wrong with ndis.vxd, but i am at a loss as how to force something to load or update the ics setup completely. yes, i've tried to uninstall and reinstall using add/remove programs. several times, with the client disconnected from the host and connected. i have spent 2 days trying to get this darn network up and running. i'm soooo tired now. please help!!!! randi
operating system, but windows 98 comes to mind, and as such i would look for updated drivers for your nic along with any updates to that os. next i would sweep the machine with the usual bug removal tools and finally try another network card.
yep, it's win98se. just bought the nic and the drivers are the latest from the web (and disk). updates for os are getting harder to come by, but i have installed all available updates (had to really search for some of them) that may even remotely apply to this problem. last night, ran full scan, defrag, sfc, virus check, reg check, couple different ad-aware type programs, etc...and this was all before i knew i have a problem with the device refusing to load! had a system crash a week ago...computer wouldn't do anything, but almost everything is restored to previous operating environment (windows troubleshooter still will not function). as a result of fix, i now have a second computer (also win98se) and came up with clever idea to establish a network. clever, my ***! i'm determined now to complete this task. keep the ideas coming! randi
try removing the nic in device manager (right click and then remove) and then shutdown immediately. open the case and swap the nic to a different pci slot, and be sure it is fully seated in the slot. reboot, the o/s will detect the new hardware, go through the driver disk dance, and see if that helps. dw
ok i know this is gonna sound incredibly stupid but i just have to check, are you using a crossover network cable between your 2 computers, because the network will never run with a straight through, straight through cords are almost always blue, crossover is another colour. if your network cable is blue stop trying to get your network to work and go out and buy a cross over network cable, then try and get it running if that aint the problem (which i'm guessing it aint) then you going to need to perform a little trick with 98 driver installation, when you try to install your drivers note down what file it's asking for, just the name and it's extension, now get a good ol floppy disk and stick it in your a: drive, then use search to find the driver file on your installation cd's and/or windows on your hard drive, now when it's found that file copy and paste it onto your floppy, try to install the driver again and tell it to look on the floppy... hey presto, you've got a driver installed this problem occurs because 98's driver installation doesn't search deeply into sub folders to find the driver so by chucking it onto the floppy even the most stupid program can find the driver hope this solves your problem
swapped pci slots twice due to resource conflicts and in hoping that reinstall would fix issue...resource conflicts are resolved, but ...still can't fix ics adapter (which adds into the device manager after installing software in add/remove programs )
had crossover cable made at computer store...it's grey and all the connections are correct. cat5 ends are neat and solid and the cable has been tested. tried putting drivers in c: drive, but haven't tried floppy...pointed install program to created file on c: drive with no change in error...will try pointing it to floppy next... wish me luck.........sigh
