i set up my network of 3 pc's today with a netgear switch, 2 crossover cables and one &quot;normal&quot; cat5 cable (the netgear switch auto detects cable used so works fine with crossovers etc). well the problem is pc1 can transfer files fine to pc2 (200megs takes maybe 2mins max to transfer), similarly pc2 can transfer fine to pc1. however pc3 is having huge problems, it shows 137mins remaining for the same file!. i'v tried copying files from pc 1 and pc2 but still having same problems, i have no idea as to what could be wrong. i routed the cable thru the loft so was wondering maybe there is electrical interference if its next to a power cable, will double check that tomorow. does anyone have any ideas as to what could be wrong?, the same pc ran fine with a crossover cable with 2 pc's so i know its not the nic, this situation has me totally confused!. any help much appreciated.
look at  and tell if you made your own cables and if so, what wire pairs you used. bob
hi, nope didnt make my own cables, using a belkin cat5 25metre cable (not crossover), the other 2 pcs are using crossover. router said it doesnt matter which cables i use as it auto detects. strange thing is today its fine, maybe a restart cured it?. i'm hoping it will continue to be ok!, dont want to return this new cable, is there any way to test the cable properly to ensure the cable is ok?, right now i'm getting transfers like i used to. will probably have a look at sisoft sandra but that probably only does benchmarks. thanks again
yes, they are merely benchmarks. but in order to construct that benchmark, sandra passes a ton of data between any 2 designated machines. if sandra can't move it's measured data to construct the benchmark reading, then you know you have a real problem. if it moves the measured data but only slowly, you have only half a problem - slowness. but half a problem is still worse than no problem, and you'll have to deal with it. glad it's working now, but do watch it. if there is an intermittent hardware issue (maybe overheating?) or an unstable driver, you'll see the problem return soon enough. or maybe the system just had a brain fart. that happens too. dw
