i recently purchased the netgear ma111 wireless adapter, as well as netgear's wireless router. the router works fine w/ the computer when the computer was plugged into it via ethernet cable. however, when i try to access the internet w/ the usb adapter only, it does not work. i spoke with netgear's tech support and we ran ipconfig which seemed to indicate the existence of the internet. nevertheless, i could not access any site including the config site for the router. also, i am running windows 98se. thanks, corey
if the product is non-functional, it may be best to pack it up and try another product. you may have issues with usb or didn't follow their install notes.  has many posts where the usb devices are plugged in before the drivers or the motherboard drivers are not installed and usb problems (just like yours) begin. i read no mention of details on your part about removal of the ethernet card, setting the mode of the usb wifi and more. this lack of information leads me to think that returning the product will save you a lot of work. bob
the ethernet card is integrated in the laptop. i am not sure how i would remove it. i did install the driver prior to inserting the adapter. based on this information, do you think it is still more likely that the product is defective? is this a common occurrence? thanks, corey
you can use the device manager to disable the network card so windows won't try to remember it and use it instead of the wifi card. the product is indeed defective if the instructions didn't work for you. bob
good luck getting any help with netgear's 3rd world support people or the &quot;slim&quot; documention that comes with their products. that said, i got my netgear system up and running in 2 days mostly by myself. i'm not familar with the usb wireless unit that you're using with your laptop. i'm running the wg511 pc card and it works fine. perhaps you should go that route instead.
i hear the problems don't exist with the pc card, and i may return my usb adapter for the pc card one. any suggestions for a quick fix to get it to work? there must be some reason - albeit minorly complicated and laborious - involving configuration. and i know the adapter works - i tried it on an xp laptop
