hi, i am running windows xp pro sp2. i realize that everytime i start my computer, many event 51 errors come up within a time frame of 3 seconds in the system log in the event viewer. however, the errors only come up in the log when windows starts up. after that they don't come up. here is the log for the error: event type:
i found another person who had the same problem with the same hd model as me. here is his post: --------------------------------------------------------------------- hi all -- just came across this post after having this same event id 51 problem myself. i built a new system this weekend with the following specs: asus a8n sli premium motherboard amd x2 64 4800 processor (2x) samsung sp2504c 250gb sata 3g drives with ncq in addition to the event id 51 problems, i was having intermitent problems with windows taking a long time to boot. it was driving me mad!!! a big thank you to everyone with similar specs who solved the problem by disabling the command queueing on the controller in device manager. that seemed to work for me as well... i'll let this go a few more days but this appears to have fixed things. wondering if anyone has tried the 6.70 nforce4 drivers from nvidia and keeping command queueing on. my current drivers are the 6.65 and these clearly don't work with ncq. ------------------------------------------------------------------- it all seems to lead to nforce4 controllers that are incompatible with the model of hd. all my pata and sata controllers are nfore4 intel edition. hth
if this is that bothersome, turning it off is not an option and  is no help then you have a warranty issue. return the board as defective. bob
hi, thanks for the reply. do you think just leaving the errors alone is ok? because i have been using the same computer, same board, same hd for about 2 years now and have no major problems. other than the warning logs in event viewer, the system is showing no sign that any component is failing. its running at good speed. no sluggish performance whatsoever. i don't exactly want to return the board unless the problem becomes 100% noticable. what do you think? thanks hope to receive a reply soon
if you don't feel like trying the advice you've found then i'd just ignore it and keep using the machine. bob
hi, i ran chkdsk (checkdisk) on my hd and it came out clean. then after my computer restarted, i checked the event viewer and this time, the error didn't come up when the computer started. i restarted again and still no error. at first i thought that chkdsk fixed it but then i remembered that right before i ran chkdsk, i uninstalled a program called msi live update. it is a program that was on my graphics card utility cd that is supposed to update the vga drivers with one click. the program has been nothing but trouble to me on my computer. i have had previous experiences where the program causes (different) warnings in event viewer related to security threats and stuff. the program sometimes causes missing dll error messages too, so i got tired of it and completely uninstalled it. anyway, if i need new drivers, i'd much rather use msi live update online (its the same as live update except you run it on the web so no modifications to your computer are made. anyway, i don't know what fixed it (for now), checkdisk or uninstalling msi live update. i'm still not 100% sure the problem's gone though. i'll post back if it comes back. thanks for all the help
hi, after leaving the computer off overnight, when it started up this morning the event 51 errors came back. so, hoping it works (which it probably won't), i switched the page file to a &quot;system managed size&quot;. if nothing works, i think i'll just ignore it for now. also, i don't know if this is normal, but i realize that even though i have 400mb of unused physical memnory (ram) out of my total 1gb of ram, 700mb of the page file is being used. i just thought that the page file was only supposed to be used if the system runs out of physical memory... any thoughts on that? thanks
hi, after changing the pagefile option to &quot;system managed&quot;, the problem seemed to go away. the computer was left off all night and when in started up this morning, there were no errors in the log. i'll post back if there are any more developments. thanx
