i have been working on a problem with my netgear wgr614v5 router this past few days, to the point that i am ready to give in and upgrade to another router. but i thought i give it a try here with my situation. the router is connected to internet by a dsl modem. i have one cable line connection to it, and internet works okay on that machine. i have two other laptops and a printer connected to the router on the wireless network; as recent as a few days ago, the wireless connection was working okay. as of now, neither laptop or the printer can connect to the router. i have not changed any of the setup, and i don't have any new appliance nearby the router to cause interference. i was watching the netgear control panel on one of the laptops, it can detect good signal strength from the network, but as soon it tries to acquire network address from it, it cuts off and goes back &quot;scanning&quot;, then the whole cycle repeats. one thought i had was the dhcp server, but checking its configuration in the router did not reveal any problem. my best guess is that somehow the wireless part of the router is malfunctioning, could be something as simple as damaged antenna. since i have no other way to diagnose this, my next step is to abandon this router. it would be greatly appreciated if someone has any other suggestion on the situation.
how about getting into the router and turning off the wireless radio, then back on.
if the router is set to wep or lesser security you will see that today. we cover the settings we like to see in this forum. tell more. bob
i already tried turning on and off wireless radio, but that did not work. the security is wpa. i also have a wireless card access list, and all the laptops and printer mac address are on that list.
sorry but there is a reason we don't use mac filters. why did you add such?
i believe the person recommending it to me indicated that it's an added security, such that only those accepted on the access list can access the router. i have always had the access list from as long as i can remember, so i don't think that's the reason the wireless connection is malfunctioning. btw, what's the reason against using mac filter?
but i find some routers buckle under that use. this forum's sticky is pretty specific and we supply a suggested setup that is secure and works across most routers. if you are having problems with your router then you talk to its maker. i have no cure for such routers short of going back to our forum suggested setups. again, there are those that will suggest disabling ssid broadcast too. but let's let those that suggest such tell you have to deal with what happens next. bob
