i been having alot of restarts and lockups so i checked everything out. i noticed my -v5 is at -61.93 in the bios. what would that do? i figured it means a bad power supply. so i swapped it out and the voltage looks better but the pc is still slow. think it might of screwed the ram, cpu, or mainboard up or just need to reinstall xp? let me know what you think.. all voltage numbers before the swap. cpu temp 56c/132f vcore 1.64v vcc1.5 1.48v vcc3.3 3.28v +5v 4.41 +12v 12.82 -12v 12.77 -5v -61.93 vbat 3.28 5vsb 5.40
you are saying that's -sixty voltages, not six volts? since, you swapped the psu out and it still a problem then be sure to reduce the system to the bare minimum. remove all devices, etc. and just make a bare system, remove/uplug all drives at least. that way you can return devices if voltage become stable before doing so. the device that seems to bring it down, then that's a iffy part. when a psu problem blows-up a system it may take down other components/devices. be sure also that all cables, etc. are firmly attached/seated. i'll check the wiring crimps as well. tada -----willy
yes. sixty. i already swapped the psu and all voltage is now fine. could it of done damage to the processor or mainboard or even both? the pc takes forever to boot up. once it boots up it won't play mp3's without skipping. pc locks up with the mp3s playing also until its done or it still skip like a record would.
did you reduce the system? you want to find bad component/device? if bad voltage did any damage yoy need to troubleshoot. tada -----willy
you must not know much. nothing in the system besides ram/cpu/mb would cause the pc to be slow. so what are you telling me to unconnect stuff. stop wasting peoples time. i ended up reinstalling everything and all is well. must of been a root kit or something that wasn't detected.
you did nothing to troubleshoot any devices and fell back on a reload. if the reload didn't load what would you have done? if any voltages aren't h/w dependant then yeah, i don't what is. you will report if your problems resurfaces later. good day -----willy
i cdrom floppy ect is not going to cause a slowdown. if the voltage is normal then why would you do that. again wasting peoples time as only thing that would of been messed up and caused a slowdown would be the processor or ram or even the mb. so don't reply when you don't know.
any hardware that can cause an interrupt ( cd-rom, floppy, ethernet etc... ) request to occur can cause a slowdown. if your computer is constantly servicing interrupts from faulty hardware your system will slow to a crawl. faulty hardware can be easily caused by bad voltages... you should listen to him
