my tablet has crashed and died. unable to boot. black screen, will not power on. also, now unable to erase personal financial data and files... backup files accessible wherever i had the tablet. tablet crashed within warranty after 9 months. acer did ask me to send to a texas repair facility, except will not assure me personal data will not be accessed by repair people. advised me to take to local technician! then what? the thing does not work! anyone out there have any answers to my quandry, any advice? think twice when looking at acer.
we know from experience and the cnet moderators that &quot;we only lose what we don't backup.&quot; as to the information on this dead tablet, if it's worth that much then you take the tablet to the grinder and get a new device/thing. if it's worth fixing, let acer fix it. hope this helps, bob ps. there is no assurance any thing/device will work without error. is this something new for you?
at 86 years old,i know a lot about how things go bad...not happy when they do within 8-9 months of purchase making my sensitive &quot;stuff&quot; available to eyes of strangers if sent for repair. have other backups of the stuff, so that's not the problema. wanted to erase ere' sending to texas... sytem crash prevented... can't know if personal data vulnerable. &quot;device&quot; has disappointed, but when it worked, it was good; acer support service questionable. know i can &quot;shred&quot; the &quot;thing&quot; any time, but being a great depression boy, try my best to salvage a bad situation and cost. even at 86, will keep tilting at windmills a while longer . thanks.
most data recovery houses deal with this question daily. it's as i put forward above. you trust them or you don't. if you don't trust them then you shred it and move on. it looks like this is a hard decision for all of us today. bob
mr. proffitt: maybe i'm not understanding your reference to data recovery houses. not sure you understood earlier problem description. data recovery is not what i'm concerned about. security of personal financial data is my concern. if i'd guessed the tablet would die as quickly as it did, of course i would have erased it....would not have put it on to begin with. hindsight is.............. . acer support classified the precursor signs and final premature death of my acer iconia a500, a &quot;hardware problem,&quot; and without further ado, asked me to ship it to texas repair solution.... at my cost incidentally...even within the warranty period. great depression days remember! yep mr. proffitt... life is full of them (hard decisions i mean)... and, i don't trust them, human frailties being what they are. understand them..i think. financial data too fruitful to ignore...even when acer support tells me data not accessible to repair technicians. i'm not an expert by any means.. especially with tablet hardware....but give me a break! thanks again for replying.
they get the same question about security. you can read their stance at  but i think you see the issue clearly as in, if you don't trust them, then it's to the grinder. if you want to get the device fixed, you will have to trust them. --&gt; bottom line is it is all about trust. bob
your link rcovery link most interesting. will investigate. thanks
