i am a graphic designer and need a new computer. i currently have a g4 power pc with version 10.3.9 installed and i tried to upgrade it again because i cannot afford a new computer. doing some research i found out that i cannot upgrade to leopard or use the new cs3 programs as they are not compatible to 10.3.9 . i create graphics for print ,web and 3d .what does someone recommend since price is the issue . i was looking at the apple power mac g5 - ppc g5 1.6 ghz ,apple power mac g5 (1.8ghz, 256mb ram, 80gb hdd),apple power mac g5 - ppc g5 2 ghz,apple mac pro dual-core xeon 5150 2.66 ghz.
the others look used and won't run the latest for the same reason. so that gives the xeon as the only one to choose from.
so you dont think that i can buy a g5 and add leopard to it. the xeon is almost $2500. do you recommend something else??what do you think i can get for $1500 or less that will be powerful enough for 10.4 or more and for the latest adobe software thanks.
i was going to buy an imac so i did plenty of research on it. it comes pre-installed with leopard so that shouldn't be a problem. every review i read on the imac raved about its features and ease of use. if i were to buy any mac at all it would be the imac. what's your budget? the imac is essentially a mainstream system unless you configure it with all top of the line components.
here that fetches me a very nice and new intel based imac. can you share why you are looking at old machines? bob
i called apple store and they told me that i should look at the imacs or i can do leasing on the new 8 core workstation. not sure .
i know the imacs come with leopard. i have a new keyboard and monitor so i was looking for just for a tower. but that may be the way to go
the listing of those g5's is confusing. those haven't been made for a very long time. the new intel imacs are not 1500 and are very fast. why not a nice fast machine? bob
i went to the mac store today and the sales guy told me that i should base my decision on what i can afford . i decided i am going to get an imac for now and then in a year or two when i have more $$ i will invest in the mac pro.i am going to research and see if i can sell my g4 and get something for it. plus i just applied for a mac visa credit card and well see if i am approved. * all the advantages of a visa credit card * no interest for up to 90 days for today's purchase (2) * itunes reward points with every purchase * open line of credit up to $25,000 (4) * no prepayment penalty * no annual fee * flexible spending
