gateway profile 3,win me, toshiba dvd-rom sd-c2502. combo drive: dvds play, but get message please insert disk in drive when insert cd. tried different cds, so not disk. tried cleaning cd, same message. have external cdrw, works fine. please advise. staarborn
change the drive and retest with a new drive. bob
i also posted this message in winxp forum in error as my os is me. one reply sent me to microsoft site (for xp) which advises change dma transfer mode to pio mode (whatever that is). another reply states had this problem after blaster worm infection. could either of these be applicable? i'm hesitant to change the drive and wind up with the same problem because of something in the system...
sure, but you can test if the drive is workable by booting your nt/2000/xp cd. i'm finding this to be a quick test if i want to waste anytime on a failed drive. did you clean the cd lens? bob
bought a cd lens cleaner from radioshack. inserted into drive but couldn't run it. don't have nt/2000/xp cd to boot. have winme. gateway sent 3 restoration disks with system. any of these? i tried disc 1 (hardware drivers, partial backup of applications, nt4.0 driver locator utility) in the drive. it opened once, but then i couldn't get it to open again. i can get it in the system through the external cdrw. would it help to run the restoration? if drive is no good, why do dvds work fine?
&quot;why do dvds work fine?&quot; zombie drive. you'll see a drive that as time passes begin to fail some disks. it causes the owner to second guess if the drive is failing. the nice thing about a shop is we ask them to bring a failing cd (more than 1) and a good one. swap the drive, demo it working and ask if they want it fixes. about one half want the old drive to be fixed. i'm never sure how they want to do that. bob
have lately come across on many os (xp win2000) where you load a cd into a cd drive and you use explorer to veiw files and it ask you to insert a disk as if the drive did not read or recognise the disk.
