well, i currently have a broken compaq presario from '04 that is broken, and hp is making very little progress in helping me, so if worse comes to worse, i was thinking of what computer i should get. i am on a budget of about $650. i would like a good built in gfx card, that would be able to play games like starcraft ii, team fortress 2, and mirror's edge well. i'd also like it to be able to run phot editing software well. (gimp, pse7, etc) i'll post more detail, but i think thats about it. oh. i'm canadian, so keep that in mind for companies and prices.
there may be little support past a few years and certainly none for free today. today all support outside of warranty is a pay for it deal. i'm finding folk calling this not being nice but employees cost money, phone lines and more. back to your search. there are far too many desktops out there for that price. bob
in the us, many a &quot;white box&quot; type system contains everything but the monitor are going for $399 on sale or not. depnds on brands but generally again some others are sold at $499 as well same type of deal. these even at basic level are better than any '04 system. while some are comanq and hp, emachines offers some too. dell, gateway, emachine, compaq, hp, acer, sony and toshiba all have some entry level system and/or deals online, check out the respective websites and compare. other online vendors offer deals too, notably newegg, tigerdirect, geeks and zipzoomfly, check for canadain sales. as for support, check what best fits you after the typical warranty. in warranty, certainly some maybe better than others, but generally speaking support is getting harder to please the consumer. don't expect too much any more, off-shore support and long wait times is typical. but heck, it keeps me in business as unhappy consumers call me from time to time with such complaints. tada -----willy
@ r. proff.: i didn't mean the service was frustrating or annnoying, i meant that it took days or near a day for a person to get back to me via email. hp phone support was much &quot;worse&quot; though, as i got transfered 3 times, and given a dead number. but that is just a slight gripe, the people themselves that i talked to were very nice and understanding, too. @willy: thnaks. i've been looking at a few acer's with 4gb ram, one of them was an athlon x3 with a pretty decent gfx card. i am currently on an acer, and it seems to slow waaay down after a few years, even with cleaning it. newegg has a few good deals, a lot on some gateways, but a lot of the good (core 2 duo) computers are over $599. i'll have to lok at tigerdirect again, only looked at their laptops. thanks to you both.
did you try newegg.ca and their &quot;picker&quot;? there was one hit at  and while you might find better, let's see what you think. bob
wow, that looks.. pretty amazing, thanks, i didn't know about that. plus i had been looking at x3's and i3's. i'll consider that. shipping price isn't great, but not bad either.
