hi i have a client who requres tablets for a number of users. am having problems sourcing the best tablet: requirements: o/s windows or android as a vital app they/program they use is only available on windows or android 3g capability (either through direct sim or dongle) as they work rurally and will not always have a wifi connection be able to print. we have had trouble finding a printer in nz that is cheap enough to purchase and is easily connected to by the tablets. seems to be a hard ask finding samsung tablets in nz at a reasonable price. any ideas would be really helpful.
i haven't found connections to printers to be any harder than usual for windows 8 pro tablets than in the past. maybe you mean something else but i'm seeing folk demand easier than the usual. they want no drivers, it just connects and prints. is that what you are seeing? bob
thanks - yes thats not a problem with windows8 but its also finding a tablet that is 3g compatible which is causing the issue. any ideas on a tablet that meets all those needs?
why is not too interesting except it gives us a better choice of carriers, lower costs. as importing is a problem i can't share models we see in the usa. but it appears you have yet to find any in your market. doesn't that clarify that what you want is going to be something in the future? bob
am going to find a forum in nz! thanks again
you probably won't find what your looking for in a retail or online consumer outlet for a pure tablet based device. my advice is to check with the local nz wireless providers for a tablet based device as they will have to support the data/wireless plan for windows or android and the hardware was most likely designed specifically for them. by comparison apple supports the ipad regardless of wireless carrier because they own the hardware and os.
the units with cellular are rarely outside the normal carrier channels for well discussed reasons. i can't cover this in full detail but here we use the run of the mill tablets but a hotspot box for the reason i gave and more. you seemed concerned with costs so it seems you either forge an alliance with the cellular carrier or take a big risk in importing something. i've seen a few try that here and they get burned later. but folk will continue to try it. bob
