does any one know how i can transfer the program files and data from my old 10g hd with xp home edition on it to a different pc with a 20g hd on it? the 20g hd presently has windows 2000 pro on it which i assume i will need to reformat. i have norton ghost 9.0 if i was to plug the 10g hd to this computer would i be able to do a drive to drive transfer? is it possible that xp being a newer os than 2000 would have the mb drivers needed for this computer to reconize the old xp hd. thanks for any help.
it's quite possible to copy the entire drive from the 10 gig to the 20 with ghost or other such software. as such, all data is intact. however, xp will not startup on the new hardware. you will need the original installation cd and will need to perform a &quot;repair&quot; installation. you will also need the product id code and will be required to reactivate windows. it's possible that xp will know much of your hardware but probably not all of it. gather all the drivers first. this would also be a good time to visit the web sites of all your hardware manufacturers and get the latest drivers. definately get the latest bios for the mb while you're at it. good luck.
you know, i've never use norton ghost, but for certain i could tell you how i resolved such problem. when i bought new pc at first i wanted to keep my old hdd (as it has much needed data), but it was only 40gb. so i after long searches i found clone disk software . it's the easiest and most convenient backup program. i just create an exact image of my hdd and make a bootable cd (due to highest level compression it takes not much space). and recover cloned hdd onto new pc automatically. if you'll use the same way, you needn't reinstall windows and you'll automatically create pretty full backup of whole your system! only after restoring you'll have to download upgrades for new pc configuration.
i'm not sure of how this would work. do i need to reformat the hdd then start it with a bootable cd then put in the clone cd and do a repair install? i'm confused? thanks for any help!
as i know, acronis bootable cd doesn't demand to format the hdd, as it installs clone over your old system, and if you format your hdd, nothing terrible will happen. also it doesn't matter what is your new one hdd size, just it mustn't be smaller then your old one.
