hey everyone, my friend just gave me a few computers that were having problems, and wanted me to make one out of them. i decided to use the newest mobo, the gigabyte ga7kml (amibios) and realised is wouldnt boot. no fans, nothing. i changed the psu, and was happy to see the fans going (they were going full speed, no slowing down.), but my satisfaction was short. i quickly realised that no video was coming out through the vga port. not only that, but three short beeps would come out only when i plugged in the monitor. i decided to install a graphic card, to try to get an image appear on the monitor. still, no video (but the beeping stopped). i have tried three graphic cards but to no avail. i tried swapping the ram with many other ram modules, still nothing. there are few things i have yet to try. 1.)resetting the cmos. this one i'm not too sure how to do, but i'm sure the manual would tell me how. 2.)disabling onboard graphics. i looked in the manual and from what i know theres a way to do that by going into the bios, which i cant do. infact i believe the mobo wont post at all. 3.)swapping the psu. i doubt its this, but it could be. 4.)letting it run for about an hour, maybe letting it post i read somewhere that sometimes a computer takes ages to post, you just need to give it some time. if i could get some help that'd be great.
didn't find that board. i was going to look up beep codes but the number looks wrong. on the surface it sounds like no ram is on the board.
ok sorry its the gigabyte ga7vkm i dont know why i got that wrong. and yes there is ram in the machine, i have tried many different (compatible) ram modules. plust the ramlled is on and stable.
i keep messing up. its (this time i know for sure) the ga-7vkml
&quot;three short beeps, indicating bad base 64k memory&quot; this points to missing or incompatible ram. the basics here are. 1. make sure the power supply is connected proper. i did not read the full manual but if there is an atx12v connection, connect it. 2. clear the cmos. i've seen this happen on machines where the owner had overclocked. 3. if the prior owner had updated the bios and failed, the cost of fixing this issue usually costs more than another board! bob
4. use one stick of ram. try each slot per test power up.
if there is atx12v, i dont know where it is, but i will check the manual. the power supply is plugged in properly, i have cleared the cmos, but it still doesnt have video. i have tried with different ram, one in each slot... etc... but i still get the same beeps. i doubt that the prior user has tried updating the bios. they werent that technologically advanced.
if you're using ram that was in one of the 3 original computers; it could quite possibly be the wrong type for this motherboard (meaning the wrong speed), or it was dead in the first place-hence the 3 beeps on every posting. it would be best if you could swap these sticks out for either new ddr memory sticks, or try to find some kicking around because it sounds as if these ones are dead. also, here is the gigabyte link for downloading the manual:
all signs point to bad, incompatible ram or blown motherboard. i know a few new techs that thought that if the stick fits it is compatible! bob
i was using ram from my home computer that was compatible with the mobo (i read the manual to find what types of ram it took). it didnt work. after looking at this:  i determined that i had bad capacitators. time for me to get a new mobo.
at least the mystery is solved sort of. i haven't seen the 3 beep failure mode with bad caps yet but given what caps do, it's not any long stretch to think that's it. bob
of your motherboard to your next reply so that we can check if we can see if indeed you do have bad caps. not that we don't believe you, just seems odd.
