first, i want to say thanks for all the responses to my previous post. here's wht i have, and here's what i need: i bought a belkin wireless g router, have installed the software on my desktop that has win xp. that is working fine, as far as i know, i am able to get on internet from desktop with it all hooked up. problem is, i'm not sure how to get my notebook to recognize the router. it is a toshiba tec 8200 that has a wireless 802.11b pcmcia card. i've tried belkin's tech support for an hour online with no human, so i'm turning to the techies here. i thought maybe i had to install the router software on to my laptop, but it doesn't seem right, it's telling me not to hook up router yet, as if it's the first time. anyway, i tried just opening internet explorer on my laptop, but no network settings detected. what am i doing wrong here??? my network card should be compatible as far as i know. help!
a wireless icon on the taskbar? when right clicked does it offer to view available wireless networks?
the problem is your router is probably set to g only. what you need to do is go into your router and change the setting from 54g only to 54g auto. 1. go to router page (default is 192.168.2.1) 2. go to &quot;channel and ssid&quot; on left collum 3. under wireless mode, click the arrow and change it to 54g-auto. hope this helps!
forgot to say the default password on the belkin router is nothing....just push submit, and you have to use the wired computer.
i read somewhere that i should not use the default ssid, if i change it, how many characters should i use? and, on my laptop, the tray icon for local area connection is x'd out with my wifi card in. thanks again!
i don't understand how to follow your directions. sorry, can you tell me how to get to the router page again? thanks.
hi, i can't see any icon for wirelss adapter, i do have an icon that says intel peoset that gives a choice to select an adapter. it gives an ip address, network drive status is loaded, etc.... i checked my device manager and the network card is working. i have 2 icons in the control panel, one says wirelss link, one says wireless network. under wiress network, it ask me to add/edit configure a profile. i have no clue what to do here. this is a second hand computer that was obviusly configured for another network. can you help?? thanks.
what is the model name of your belkin router? router manufacturers usually have a quick start instruction manual (usually a couple pages with pictures) that will tell you how to access the router's administration page. if you don't have this, download it from belkin.com.
that you are apparently running on your taskbar has the needed tools to connect to your router. if your ip/subnet/gateway addresses are all proper for your router, you should have no trouble connecting. report back on those figures as well as the os and network adapter being used.
i went to my win 2000 laptop's &quot;network and dialup connections&quot;, opened up the x'd out &quot;local area connection&quot; (is that correct? there was another &quot;home&quot; network icon that when i clicked asked for user name and passwordand wouldn't connect) then highlighted internet portocol tcp/ip, clicked on &quot;properties&quot;, typed in ip address i found on my xp desktop 192.169.2.1, submask 255.255.255.0 dns server 192.168.254.254. still no luck connecting, i'm sure it has something to do with he previous server and it's probably something fairly simple but i can't figure it out.
