i'm looking for an easy-to-use, moderately price external hard drive (~80gb, usb) to serve as a backup device. do experienced users here have any specific recommendations. i've reviewed the different selections listed here, but find no reviewer ratings and user ratings are all over the place. thanks much!
this fails as a backup on 2 points. 1. no write protect switch. connecting such to an infected system can result in the backup being lost. or operator errors! 2. no backup to the backup. a backup system has multiple copies so that if one fails, you go get the next oldest copy. this would be one backup device and no copy to fall back on. if a copy is all you need, then such will be fine. but you won't see me put my lifetime digital photo collection at rish on such a system! bob
i define &quot;backup&quot; as a scheme or plan but not as a device. you develop the plan suitable for your own needs. you must capture the information that is important or even critical. you must determine what might threaten it and take precautions against these, etc. you should also have a recovery plan. no backup plan is any more important than is the ability to recover what is lost. once you've made all these decisions, then you get the appropriate hardware, software, etc. then you get to be diligent in using it. my own scheme involved actual testing of the backup and recovery methods until i tuned them to meet my needs.
i was talking to a user a while back about backups. he was telling me about some product he uses and how he backups this and that and this and that, sounded good. so i asked have you ever tried to restore using these backups? answer=no so i asked how do you know the restore works? answer=oh it will work. so i said let's test. wipe the hd and restore. answer=subject title
thank you for your insightful response. it's people like you make life miserable for someone trying to ask simple questions on forums like this. thanks for nothing and you might ask yourself the same question you asked me!
you have to meet a few people who lost it all to understand that backup is not optional. and a test of the backup is not to wait till its needed. all the respondants want you to never experience the true misery. bob
backup s is plural
geez randun i didn't mean anything negative. my post was directed to steve and not you. i think it's great that your on the backup route. you can learn from all the mistakes that others have made or do it the hard way and make all the same mistakes on your own. i was just trying to point out that there are two parts to a backup. backup restore you can spend hours daily/weekly/monthly doing backups only to find that when you need them the restore function does not work. it's a heck of a time to find out the backup compressed the data better than was expected. (bummer) anyway no slight intended.
obviously i've either mis-stated my inquiry or users here simply didn't understand. i've backed up data for years on my pc to tape drives. i currently use retrospect 6.5 and a seagate tape drive. and yes, i do have a backup plan and can restore data at will. now, that i've made that crystal clear, does anyone want to actually answer my question and recommend an external hard drive that can replace the tape drive. if you don't have a civil answer, please don't bother responding. thanks.
i really have no idea what all those guys are rambling about. it should not really matter much which enclosure you buy, as long as you make sure the drive within is of high quality. i suggest choose anything with a seagate drive in it, as seagate drives now all come with 5 year warranties. as for the enclosure itself, these are not really expensive, and if the enclosure fails (ie not the drive itself within the enclosure) you can always get a new enclosure and through the drive in the old one, into the newer one. generally you cant go wrong if you purchase the vantec nst-250u2 enclosure with a seagate drive inside. also you cud consider getting a dual-layer dvd drive and backup tyo dvd disk, which is probably a much better bet and will probably cost u much less. just make sure you get quality dvd disk like verbatim, tdk, or maxell. good dvd burners include nec-3500a (the best) sony d22a, samsung h-552b
i'd used about every one and they all &quot;work&quot;. which model is available today? bob
until reading your explanation which qualified your knowledge and previous experience, it's a bit hard to know where to start and stop. no one here (i hope) wants to insult a knowledgable person nor do they want to overwhelm a real &quot;newbie&quot; with technical garble that only serves to prove their own expertise without really offering help. so, a reply to a what seems like a straight forward question can be difficult to tailor to specific needs. what i would advise is that you hope for lots of responses regardless of whether they are on target and pick the ones that suit you best. don't get too flustered. this is a great place to pick some pretty good brains but a bad place to always get succinct answers. as for hd enclosures, i would go one of two ways and the rest is up to you. you can purchase external drives already in an enclosure or you can buy the enclosure and drive separately. the latter is what i do. i think the major hd manufactures that you already trust are the best source for drive/enclosure packages. i put seagates in my enclosures and feel comfortable saying they are a long time and reliable company. mine run quiet and cool and seagate offers what you need. if i was buying one as a gift or personal use, i would not hesitate to buy a seagate with usb2. please don't let this experience get you down.:)
i had a 40gb maxtor external, it went, and i can't use any of my spare hds with the usb case, i have 2 120 gb maxtor externals, both holding the same data, normally diconnected ( i only connect to a pc, for read/write, which has been completely scanned ), a 120gb internal ( which is external most of the time ) holding much of the same data, and the same data is scattered around a few more internal hds. i haven't lost any data but it's not easy to find what i'm looking for when i want to check on it. system, it's not. data bank, ok. i probably have 10 copies of some files (over-over-overkill) but i wouldn't even mention the possibility of cleaning the system up, unless somebody knows of a utility which can sort it all out. hah!!!!
the number one reason is... no write protection. while you mention it's unplugged most of the time, without a write protect feature a missed virus or even operator error can wipe the backup out. as such, this is not a valid &quot;backup&quot;, but just a copy. bob
