hi everyone i have a plextor px-712a drive. it does not read some dvd roms which other drives are able to read. when i insert that dvd rom in the drive the drives led blinks with an orange colour (orange colour usually indicates that there is some problem with the disc). the discs are fine as they have not much scratches on them. some people told me to clean the lens using a lens cleaner cd. i used it but it didnt work. my system info is: 1ghz intel celeron windows xp professional 256mb ram 40 gb harddisk dvd burner px-712a. what should i do. your suggessions are highly appreciated.
let me add one thing to the above initiated discussion that when i insert the disc for the first time the drive does not read the disc by blinking the led but then after i insert it three four times again at last the drive starts reading the disc. but this is true only for some discs but others are not read by it even on repeated insertions.
need more info. what os, what type of pc, how old is drive, does it read any disks at all? thanks, paul
didn't see your info the first time...however does it read any disks at all? thanks again, paul
it reads all the cds but when it comes to dvds it reads only some. it reads some others when inserted for the fifth or sixth time
what you are saying is, it reads most cds, and not certain dvds. i noticed you said the disks are fine, not &quot;many&quot; scratches. dvds are a fussy disk. i have many dvds and let me say, one scratch in the wrong spot will keep it from playing in my dvd drives as well, or takes a few times to open them. some drives will play a scratched dvd while others can be a bit more fussy. most of my old cds that are scratched badly , still play with ease. this has to do with the format of the disk also. since the format of a dvd is (well, let's just say more condensed for now) it is also vulnerable to lighter scratches as the laser spreads even a bit and is unfocused, the dvd will skip, not play right away, or at all. cds are not so(once again just for purpose sake) condensed and have a slightly better range for margin of error. this is currently my take on your problem but others may have another idea. i just feel if it was in fact the player, it wouldn't work at all. also, it may be the software you use. some won't play certain regions as to where some play more. this is my take on it. others may have other suggestions but i do feel this is what's happening. take care, paul
