ok, so... my computer died a tragic death. they tell me his capacitors blew, they expanded to an unnatural volume and started leaking a mysterious red powder. i suspect this is what was causing the comp to endlessly reboot every 40 seconds when i would try and turn it on. after an unsuccessful exorcism i brought the big boy to a more professional computer shop. and they're the ones who told me the motherboard is dead and there's nothing i can do about it. i had just recently bought a 1 gb ram module though, and it feels like it would be a shame to let it go to waste. as a bonus buying a computer that uses one of those old rams (ddr1 i think he called it) will be much cheaper than buying one of those new i5 supercomputers. so i want to transfer my rams safely. ideally i would just swap them from on computer to the next while they are rig next to one another, but i don't... perfectly trust this computer store. i want to open up the computer i buy and make sure the stick will fit while still in the store. that way i can catch any problems with them right next to me. but how do i that? i only have 1 ram case, and i have 2 modules. and it's been raining like crazy in these parts! i'm not just going to step outside with the card lying naked in my hand will i? so, any tips?
there is no ddr1, but it maybe in reference to ddr. there is ddr2 and ddr3, the latter new ram modules. any new to you mtrbd. that uses ddr isn't really the latest mtrbd. out there. your best bet is ddr2 usage and that's not ddr1. these aren't interchangeable. you're really need to move on, but if you find any mtrbd. that uses ddr, it will say so via the specs. so review whatever you get and verify that requirement. alas, for low cost buying a ddr2 is the better choice, but if you need to buy then ddr3 is far better. that choice i leave to you. you can find older mtrbd. as closeouts, ebay, craigslist, etc. in keeping to swap that mtrbd.. cheap entry new systems are available under $400 if that keeps within your budget. tada -----willy
you are asking about something widely discussed. in short you ground yourself and pull the parts out. then same for installing. seems like some need more than that quick version. bob
@ r. proffitt yes i understand how to insert a card once the computer is already in my house, what i am asking is how should i store the ram (what kind of container should i use) to get it to the store. because right now the only thing i can figure is to use a ziplock or my bare hands (i don't trust aluminum paper...) @willy hold on, i wrote it down somewhere...&quot;one 512mb ddr400 pc3200u 184-pin ram, and one 1gb of the same type.&quot;. that's what was in my old pentium iv when it died. you're saying this type of ram isn't interchangeable? and i wouldn't be able to pop them into a new pentium iv? if i'm going to push up to 400$ i might as well wait for boxing day and see what deals show up then.
if you don't now then you truly need to know what specs your old system was. visit  and using your known model# or mtrbd. info verify what you have. i'm sure that ddr is the end result. you can not swap ddr and ddr2 ram into each other slots, beleieve it, there is a physical limitation of the actual ram module, google for pics. if you find another p4 mtrbd. then again verify if you can re-use ddr into its ram slots. this is all explained clearly by the specs of that system/mtrbd., so be sure what you have. as for your actual ram 512mb and 1gb both being ddr aren't going to be installed in any ddr2 slot, period. though, if you find a new p4 mtrbd. and ddr ram capable, yes the ram can be re-used. as for handling any ram, re-use the anti-static bags or material. if none is present, the best available substitute, use plain copy/office paper, just keep handling to a minimum and de-static(esd) yourself before handling, by grounding to some metal. google for esd characteristics. i hope, i made myself clear. tada -----willy
sorry but plastics unless treated for anti-static would be a bad idea. the surface charge on plastics can kill chips. aluminum foil is far better for this. bob
