i've been happy with a canon pixma ip2000 printer, and can replace the 2 ink cartridges for less than $2.00 each. a new canon printer, &quot;free&quot; with my camera purchase, uses proprietary cartridges which cost $30 each, so i'd like to find a replacement for my trusty ip2000 which will use generic and inexpensive ink. do you have recommendations?
the latest canon is the ip3500, it uses canon's more traditional 4 ink tank system. around $16 for black and 14 per color. i wouldn't see any problem finding generics or refilling due to their simple design. you might check at walgreens and see how much refills are. i would avoid epson because of issues w/ printhead clogging. when you step up to the ip4500 you get two paper trays and auto paper feeding. also an extra lighter black ink, and higher print resolution for photos. if using refilled ink is a concern then i'd stay away from advanced photos printers and some of the newer hp's that use the 02 cartridges. refilling in those might cause problems with their newer permanent printhead system. hope that helps.
in the past i would have defended epson printers as being dependable and wonderful machines. i cannot do that any more. i have been royally disappointed with the entire line since my first c80. that printer served me well for years. however the subsequent printers, c82, c84 and c88, and the cx1600 all using the lovely but problematic durabrite ink clogged. epson refuses to acknowledge they have a problem and just continue to sell a product that is bound to fail usually shortly after the warranty is over. i can't say i am thrilled with the hp printer i have either. my second hand canon i use at my work place seems to be doing better than either the epson or the hp. i'd look at canon again.
check your prices, it seems to me. my canon cartridges cost $14.25 each, which makes me much happier than when i was using an epson printer, which did indeed use $34 ink tanks. and don't even start about hp, which uses such prorietary inks that you can't even buy third-party tanks.
general information:  note items in right column:  i hope you get lots of responses. someone i know needs a good cheap laptop printer. the price for cartridges is also important. so important that the next time i buy a printer i'll make my decision based on the cost of ink cartridges then choose the printer based on this information. recently my wife and i made a visited walgreen's where they refill cartridges for less then new ones can be bought. $5.00 less.
epson photo stylus rx700 is what i have,and i'd like to see a better printer. i don't think so! prints 8 1/2 x 11 and down,prints cd's dvd's greeting cards,and much more. it has 6 inks,which i get (generic)for $3.16 each! prints better than a photo shop! no clogging problems at all with the rx 700. plus i received a $150 rebate! after a years use ,i love it more and more!
sorry for the very late reply. yea canon printers use mostly dye based inks so they don't run into the clogging issues that you get with epson. lexmark printers are so so. even with getting new printheads each time i've heard of people still having problems. and when i worked at staples i saw more problems w/ lexmark print quality than w/ canon. it is such a same to see the decline in recent quality of epson products. i have an epson cx3200 all in one and it is working great. clogs up every now and then but nothing permanent and i've had it for about 3 years now.
i have had a canon multifunction multipass c555 for 12 years. i set it for black only mode which then accomadtes a larger black tank cartridge. i have refilled the cartridges for 12 years with no problems. canon tells me that new models will self destruct the cartridge the first time the cartridge is empty. once empty the cartridge will tell the electronics its always empty. any ideas?
the black cartridge filled ok but the color did not. the printer would not recognize the color cartridge after refilling. we had them refilled at walgreens. saved $10.00 on the black, would have saved the same on the color. the same evening that the color failed we picked up the color cartridge at meijer for the same price new that we payed for the refill. this was not an &quot;on sale&quot; item. black works fine, so far.
i am so disappointed with my epson artisan 810 printer. the print heads clog and epson refuses to warranty the product becuase we used non-epson ink. the problem is that the epson ink is very expensive and the non-epson is less expensive than the epson ink. (even though it is still much more expensive than canon's - so you know what my next buy will be) it is a shame that a company like epson would set such a trap for its loyal customers..
i'd hardly call somebody who buys and uses cheap non-epson inkt as &quot;loyal&quot;. do you really mean that? if had you read the warranty certificate, i'm sure you would have read that using non-epson ink would void the warranty. that's a quite normal provision. you'll find that other printer manufacturers do exactly the same. you can't blame epson for that in the least. it was your own choice to do it or not to do it. and you did. so be it. my advice for your next printer: stick to proprietary cartridges during the warranty period. kees
actually the magnuson-moss warranty act of 1975 prohibits that sort of warranty terms. it would be like a dvd drive manufacturer saying the warranty was voided by using the wrong brand of dvd disc or car company for the wrong brand of gas etc.. walgreen's backs this up at their website:
years ago during the dvd format war a few drives would burn out if you put in the wrong media type. no one succeeded that i heard of to get the unit fixed under warranty. the makers would tell you &quot;you put in the wrong media. sorry we warned you.&quot;
