plea from a digital artist. is there anyway you could please, please, make it a point to include in the specs of new tablets if they have pressure sensitive pens. sometimes its very hard to figure out what new tablets have this and what ones don't. often it is buried in a review and given little acknowledgement.most times it doesn't show up in the &quot;spec&quot; sheets that are with reviews. even better if you could tell us levels of pressure sensitivity, and who makes the tech for it (like samsung using wacom). this info is very important for a digital artist looking into getting a tablet. even a simple &quot;this tablet has a stylus, with 1024 levels of pressure, uses wacom technology and tablet has enough power for serious photoshop users&quot; you cant imagine how hard it is to find some of this info at times.
there are less than a handful of pen equipped android tablets so this one is very easy. the answer is no. it appears what you want is not made. bob
i know the samsung series 7 has the s pen, that uses wacom tech. but it was not easy to find that info.
1800samsung and they still answer questions. but i looked and it failed other requirements you made so it looks to still be no. are you trying to find a replacement for the usual wacom device that follows?  bob
i already have a cintiq. i want a digital sketchpad. my only requirement was to ask cnet to include this kind of info in their reviews. as for the series 7 slate, last years model ran photoshop fine, has wacom tech, and was pressure sensitive ( i believe only 256 levels) the new series 7 slate  pretty much fits the bill....but its hard to find the info in reviews....that is what i am saying.
clover trail tablet pcs with digitizers: samsung ativ smart pc (wacom) asus vivo tab (wacom) thinkpad tablet 2 (wacom) dell latitude 10 (wacom) hp elitepad (not sure which type of stylus) hp envy x2 (possibly...not sure which type) ivy bridge tablet pcs with digitizers: samsung ativ smart pc pro (wacom) sony vaio duo 11 (n-trig) microsoft surface pro (unknown, but it will definitely have some sort of digitizer stylus)
and the answer is always been the market isn't there. i see you listed a few digitizer equipped pc tablets but a quick check shows some don't meet your specs. -&gt; i'm unsure where you are going with this. that is, let's say your list met your criteria. why didn't you buy them? bob
i think you are missing the point somewhat. my original post was not an inquiry into what tablets to buy. i have done the research and know some i am interested in. the post was a plea to cnet to help people like me by including information about a tablets stylus,pressure,etc into their reviews and spec sheets. often this info is not included or glossed over in most reviews and is almost never on spec sheets.
these are the discussion boards for cnet members. if you want to feed back to the cnet writes, find an article and look for the email links. but my question is still, if you found an unit from your list that met your spec, why didn't you buy it? i have run into many of these &quot;artists&quot; and they want the ipad with that 1024 level digitizer for 99 bucks. they always tell me &quot;they'd sell millions.&quot; sorry but as it turns out, the market is not there and it's a lot more money because of the volumes. bob
i figured maybe some people from cnet might read these forums....and yes i did e-mail a few editors. i haven't bought one yet, because i an saving the $$ for one, and i want to see what is coming out in the near future. perhaps i am reading it wrong but the way you wrote &quot;artists&quot; in quotes like that, comes off as rather condescending. i am an artist with 20 years of freelance, and 14 years of video game experience. most of us artists that want a digital sketch book know its a niche market, and are willing to spend a good amount for the right product.i have never met a digital artist that expects prices for a tablet to be $99. almost all the artists i have worked with would pay a premium price for a tablet that meets our needs, and yes those needs are that of a niche market. there is a market there, its just a smaller market, but that doesn't mean it cant be profitable for a company. wacom does quite well selling most of its products to the niche of digital artists, and has only recently gotten into more mass market products. anyhow this is pointless and getting way off track. this post was about addressing reviews.
i added that since artists are where this usually comes from. i'm sure you've heard many of them blame the tools or the cost of the tools. after hearing this for many years but no big market i have to agree that what you see is the result of market forces. wacom has been around for decades. i've only been at this a little longer (see a ge-210? i wrote my first program on that.) and yes, i have met the 99 buck artist request. it's on the more extreme but the usual artist is well, a little short on change most of the time. maybe they have to produce with what they can make or afford? bob
perhaps a hobby, part time artist is short on cash most of the time. but digital artists working in movies,tv,video games, advertising, web design can earn quite a nice chunk of change. we artists are all not moody, dark, depressing ,broke and wear black all the time. good artists don't blame tools, because tools are just that...tools, talent and hard work make something exceptional. the computer is just a very, very fancy pencil, its what you can do with it, not what it is that matters.
the artists that i know that do well, get that screen i linked above and they're pretty happy. there is a bunch however that want an ipad with the wacon 1024 pressure point system and more. for you guessed it 99 bucks. keep writing the reviewers and hope. bob
all i can write in my defense is i've been hit with that a few too many times. with &quot;the arts&quot; (sorry if using quotes seems to upset folk) changing media over the years maybe what is needed is some national endowment for the arts to promote the development and subsidy of the things that these artists want. and again, keep writing the folk that do those reviews. here it's a discussion forum and i don't see the reviewers to chime in. bob
ill keep on the editors. you would think it would be easy to mention if a tablet has a stylus, and how many levels of pressure it has, maybe a little more difficult who makes the tech...but even that cant be too hard to find out. this little bit of info like this in a review would greatly help artist with me in looking at what tablet to get. i am sure there are artists that want everything for nothing. my experience, as i mentioned, is just different from yours. myself, and the other digital artists i know have talked about this for a long time, and most of us would be willing to pay $2000 and up if a tablet really met our needs. $1200 and up if a tablet is mostly there ( i think i mentioned, the 2 things that seem to be missing for us artists types is more that 4gig of ram and a dedicated video card) to be honest, most of us keep hoping(but in no way expecting) that wacom would team up with a manufacture, for a wacom branded high end tablet.....but none of us are really expecting that. wacom already has the attention and devotion of the niche of digital artists, and many of us have willingly paid a high price for the cintiq, that's why we think they would be a good company to market to this niche. i am excited to see what win8 (non rt) tablets are coming in the next months....who knows maybe something will really stick out.
