my motherboard died in my (e machines t6420) 4 days out of the 1 year warranty, and my brother's did the same in his t6420 just within the warranty. 1. is there any way to find out if these boards are commonly defective, as 1 year seems ridiculous? 2. do i have any recourse? who's the right person to complain to besides the tech dept which diagnosed the problem? 3. any suggestions for a good quality upgrade motherboard if i'm stuck with the repair? thank you
i see them to be under 99 bucks (most) at newegg.com and geeks.com. so while this failure may seem spooky at first i run into blown usb and keyboard ports during winter (north of the equator) due to electro static discharges or other reasons. one of the downsides of not maintaining your own machine will be paying about 300 or so for a repair. bob
at a minimum, give emachines a call. explain the problem and they may get you a new motherboard. it's worth a shot. if you must replace the motherboard, you can get info on your current t6420 motherboard here:
e-machines conveniently lists only a $20 tech support line, and after many e-mail correspondances with support, they still would not give out a (customer service number). so basically they just hope you'll go away! unless any one has a better way to get their attention, it looks like i will have to get a motherboard. are their any brands which stand out over the rest, and would upgrading to a faster speed comb. board be a difficult transition?
fyi, my 13 month old e machine t6420 motherboard just died. also, fyi, my e machine notebook died last year after being only 18 months old. i don't think it would be smart to buy another e machine....nor to repair an existing e machine. since 1985 i've had desktops and notebooks from toshiba, compaq, hp, e machine, ibm, sony, etc...and has always been the cheapest price but has always died on me. all the other computers just got obsolete.
motherboard in my *14* month-old emachine t6420 just died. wish i'd seen these posts last year when i was considering which box to buy . . . all my research indicated emachines were pretty big bang for the buck . . . guess you get what you pay for.
i have an emachine t6412 and the motherboard died 1 day before the end of the warranty, we took it to best buy who sent it to emachines and they gladly replaced it.
thanks for all your responses. i had the computer repaired finally this week, no thanks to e machines. the place that repaired it contacted e machines and after talking with several people and calling different numbers to get a replacement board, the representative said if i had contacted them within a week or two after the warranty and asked for a supervisor they would have repaired it under warranty. what a crock! i repeatedly asked for a supervisor during several online chat sessions with their technicians and they never once connected me with a supervisor, nor would they give me a number to call to speak with a representative. i saved all those frustrating e-mails. it appears many users had the same problem and guess what, that motherboard is not available. my next computer will not be an e machines/gateway. brad
dear friend, i operate a computer consulting and repair business in michigan. i have only ever had to replace motherboards (this entire year) in the very same brand and model of computer you made reference to. i've spoken with other repair personnel in this area and we've discovered it to be the e-machine case that causes the motherboardss to fail. there was one customer who'd replaced his motherboard twice before finally replacing everything except the case. on his third go-round, his motherboard again shorted and failed after a while. as near as we can tell... the stamped hold-down holes in the e-machine case have a larger surface area than your conventional hexagonal screwin hold-downs, which we feel is the primary culprit of the unprecedented e-machine failure rate.
i to, have a t6420 which lasted a whole 18 months before its untimely demise. such a long life. called e-machines at there non toll free number ( 408-273-0888),thank god for nationwide cell plans, and vented on them. did no good of course, but i feel a little better. i guess i'm going to strip the e-machine of all the drives, most of which were upgrades i installed, and buy a new quality case, motherboard, and cpu and install my drives and boards in it. one things sure, i'll never go near a e-machine or gateway again.
i also want to add that two (2) emachine model t6420 computers purchased just over one year ago have also failed for myself and my mother. problem appeared to be bad power supplies at first, replaced and appeared to fix the problem, but then the video output went out on one followed by non-booting. second computer also failed without being able to power up the system, psu replacement did not correct the problem. the co-incident that both computers failed within the sametime frame (and just out of warrenty) leads me to believe that gateway/emachines have sold defective products. i am bringing this to the attention of an attorney and will inquire as to whether this should provide grounds for a class action law suit against these people. anyone else interested if we move forward with such a lawsuit???
i also have an emachine t6420 that died just shy of two years. very frustrating. i contacted gateway and the tech agreed that emachines is not a good product and they are replacing them. it sounds as if emachines was selling defective computers. let me know if this turns into a class action suit. thanks.
i've had my t6420 about 2 years now, only problem i've had was to replace the hard drive about 3 months ago. not happy about that! would love to know about any lawsuits.
i have had my emachines t6420 for almost exectly 24 months. motherboard is having problems. i can't restart and usb mouse drops out all the time. also video jumping around. a friend of mine who owns a computer support business did a remote on my machine and thinks a bad capacitor on the motherboard is the culprit. he says this is common in emachines and dell optiplex. emachines support is completely useless. what a bunch of total idiodts. their answer to everything is to do a full system restore. i have no doubt they knew of ms-7207 motherboard problems long ago and continued to sell these crappo units. anyway, here is my question. i am going to replace my ms-7207 motherboard but i have noticed that it comes in two versions. one with the nvidea geforce 6100 chipset and the other version with the nvidea geforce 6150 chipset. does anyone know if the 6150 chipset motherboard is compatible in the t6420? in other words would it operate on the same drivers and bios and would i be able to use the same restore disk? if yes then i intend to get this board instead of the original because it offers dvi out connections for monitor. thanks, strat100
the xp os will want to re-activate and won't since it's another motherboard. you learn this after a few forays into the swamp. bob
can you ellaborate? are you saying that i have no options here. that even replacing the motherboard won't help me because the the restore disk won't work on a new motherboard? i'm lost on that one. i thought i would be ok if i just took the old processor and memory off of my old motherboard and put it on a new motherboard? my computer is working right now it just has problems and i want to replace the motherboard. i would like to use the 6150 chipset but it's not crucial. i have no problem using the stock motherboard that came in it. sounds as if you have fallen into this swamp yourself? strat100
how windows detects changes in the hardware. also the supplied os is often locked to the system as supplied. i only note this so you won't be totally surprised about not only having to install a few drivers but having to get a xp license as well. bob
i see what you are saying now. emachines is really a racket. i will never buy another thats for sure. they are the worst company i have ever dealt with. what cheap crap they sell. anyway, there is no way i am going to pay them $160.00 for a motherboard and then still have to jump through hoops to get it all to work. my plan at this point is to scrap everything but the case, hard drive, and media reader. i think i will find a deal on a motherboard/cpu bundle, power supply, and a new liscensed xp. i don't know what other choice i really have right now. i undestand the tower case is pretty generic and should fit most components. is this your understanding as well? thanks, strat100
that is, their written agreement that i will be avoiding the 99 to 199 dollar price tag and bill for windows... -&gt; emachines has no corner on the market on this issue. just about every retail machine will not run the supplied windows if you change the motherboard. look up hp and the word &quot;tattoo my motherboard.&quot; bob
i've replaced motherboards numerous times on e-machines, sometimes with the same make and model, other times with newer or different models. though i don't use a &quot;restore disk&quot; per say, i've never had any problems reloading windows xp and using the existing license key that is affixed to the side of the e-machine. at the time you need to &quot;activate&quot; your operating system, you will notice an option to change the key. if you choose that option, you can enter your actual key and click generate id. with this new id, you'll be able to authenticate with windows. if not, call them, it takes about 6 minutes, they don't give you any problems and you'll be activated before you hang up.
my emachine died on friday. came home and tried to power it up and got nothing. at first i thought it may be the hd, but soon discovered it wasn't. i can at least get all my data off the hd before i wipe it completely. i rebuild computers a lot and i've never had an issue with activating an os. it's all automated, unless something goes haywire on their end. then, you just read the numbers and they repeat a different set back, you enter them and your done.
i replaced my motherboard last week on my emachines t6420. replaced it with a biostar geforce 6100-m9. boot up went smoothly. for revalidation for windows xp i ended up having to call windows but once i did it went smoothly and had no problems. so far motherboard is operating just fine and i didn't lose any previous info or have to do a restore or anything. i am having one small problem though. my cpu fan and system (case) fan are running fast all the time. my cpu temperature seems ok and is normally running at a bout 24 degrees celsius and under gaming conditions at about 34 c so it does not seem to be a heat problem. i did add a little heat sink compund back to the top of the cpu where it meets the heat sink when i did the install so i know it is transfering heat ok. this seems to be more a problem with the fans not beiung sensed. i have checked my bios and have everything set correctly there. have cool-n-quiet set to auto and my power options in windows set to minimum power management. not sure what the problem is but it is annoying with the fans running fast all the time. loud. anyone else encountered this problem? strat 100
i purchased an emachine t3092 from circuit city in paducah kentucky. the capacitors on the motherboard have leaked battery acid which has eaten the traces and done other damage to materials inside of the case. if you are having any trouble with emachine and would like to have all of your money refunded to you by means of a class-action lawsuit (nothing is necessary on your behalf unless otherwise specified) please email me at polachelliot@aol.com thank you for your time elliot polach
i bought this machine in march 2006.. it is now in the shop for the 3rd time.. 2 times to replace the motherboard.. (these two times were within about 4 months time... this time they say is most likely the motherboard but i haven't gotten it back so not sure what will be done. email me at yorkiepaws@msn.com if i can be included in a class action suit.. thanks, elizabeth
i was wondering if this class-action lawsuit was still coming up or if it had already been settled. i bought my emachine t6420 in dec. 07 for around $700 or so if i remember correctly and had to replace the motherboard in jan. 08 for another $160. just recently i tried to upgrade the video card so i bought a pciexpress card, but the motherboard doesn't seem to see it there. the one time that it did see it, the computer froze during the windows loading screen. i am definately down for getting my money back for a machine that has seemed to cause problems for just about everyone who has owned one. please let me know what is/has happened with this lawsuit. thank you jon plouffy_69_01@yahoo.com
