i've just recently moved to a new house and switched from a broadband connection to dsl, and ever since then, i can't stay connected to aim or msn chat services or even connect to limewire anymore. i've tried other chat and p2p clients, but still none work. how can i fix this? thanks
try the virus forum and use the tools noted there to clean up as well as winsockfix (noted in that forum.) hopefully you can recover enough to avoid a total wipe and reinstall of this os. bob
woah, calm down. i run frequent virus scans with several programs, and comes up. viruses aren't my problem.
these are not viruses and are well known to damage the os. giddy up. bob
i run spyware and adware scans frequently too. but let's get off this subject, please.
if not, why not?
first, please run another scan with adaware and spybot just to be sure nothing snuck in when you weren't looking. bob's point in the other subthread is that &quot;frequent scans&quot; isn't frequent enough when something unknown has happened since the last scan. and if you are running windows xp, get their new spyware scanner and run it too - it is a very good utility and finds stuff that adaware and spybot miss. now, on to the next part... dsl is one of many forms of broadband, and it (dsl) comes in many flavors. it's like saying you just changed your primary form of roadway transport from an automobile to a chevrolet. not much information there - a chevy is an automobile and chevy makes a number of models. so... can you tell us some specifics about your dsl - provider name, connection type, and hardware involved (modem type and is a router in the configuration). assuming there are no malware issues and you can get to the general internet without trouble, two possibilities come to mind quickly: you are having a port-forwarding issue for these specific services that needs to be resolved in your modem/routing configuration (or in your software firewalling, if you are using any such); or your isp is doing some sort of &quot;traffic management&quot; by blocking certain ports or packet types. dw
i'm have alltel dsl at 1.5 mbps connection running through a regular router. anything else?
