hello all i was wondering if anyone has used one of these drives. i have only seen 1 review for it so far. i need some usb drives to backup important word, excel files and to backup the programs i download from the internet for my palm. i am backing up programs, but i will not be running the programs from the usb drive. storage is all that i'm looking for. i ask about this particular drive 'cause it's on sale at a good price. thanks for any help/advise regards fritzmom
the lexar 8gb with the lcd was under 20 last week. see  it's fast and cool. bob
i do agree that it is really convenient talking about the actual size. but i was disappointed to find out that you can not reuse it when you try to delete old files from the usb and replace it with another file, a message will pop up that says you can not store anymore because there is no enough space. when i checked the general preference the capacity showed used: 7.69 gb on disk (7,685,210,112 bytes), where in fact the only data stored left is (micro usb quick start up guide) only. unlike my other usb which is of course another brand, i can always delete old movie files and replace it with new ones. but i will appreciate if anyone can tell me if there is a way to reuse the drive. by the way i am using mac. thank you
while you can storage on flash media, don't count on this as permanent storage, temporary at best. just too many issues arises and all the requests for help can't always be fixed. you still need to store the most precious of your data to discs as a more safer place. that doesn't mean you can't use flash drives, just don't don't store them there indefinitely. as for flash drives sales, they come and go. there will always be another one either at brick fronts or online stores on sale. in my experience, i've used toshiba and kingston drives with good results. however, don;t fall for super cheap drive like a-data, etc or any that seem to pop-up on sale often. tada -----willy
you should try emptying out your trash, because if you have put files in the trash from your drive they still take up space. if that doesn't work you could maybe try and format your drive by going into applications&gt;utilities&gt;disk utility and formatting the device to mac os x extended (journaled) (or ms-dos if you are transferring files between your mac and a windows computer). cheers, sam
