i need a camera that is small and compact. i am hoping for something that is less than $100 but definatly no more than $120. i was looking at the linksys wvc54gc but i hear bad things about it. does anyone else have any recomandations for me?
get one of these instead:  the lukwerks camera is simple to setup and the software is excellent. it's a little more than you want to spend, but you will want to smash the wireless ones against the wall after hours of fiddling with them and still not getting them to work right. many radio shack stores are starting to carry this lukwerks camera, so you might want to check it our there and see if it fits your needs.
the company i work for installs secuirty cameras and we have tested just about all the lower end cameras. we found d-links (depending on the model) to be ok but not impressive. most of ours now use axis cameras. the 206w can be bought for under $190 if you shop around. the new 207w (has audio) can be found for as low as $260. these cameras have excellent picture quality up to 30fps at 640x480 and good color quality. i've never tried the wilife ones but their obvious lack of specs makes me wonder just how good of cameras they are.keep in mind that you will want a camera that can handle low lux levels like 4 and under. otherwise video will get grainy in lower light levels.
from the system requirements page on the wilife web page:  resolution selectable: 320 x 240 or 640 x 480 pixels frame rate & bit rate: selectable illumination: 2 lux minimum
im not found of the wilife cameras. i have seen them on engadget before (  ) and that says that i can only see my video feeds for 10 mins a day online. and to get more, i would need to pay a fee. now i think that is just rediculous. that is why i am more towards a wireless camera.
i work at wilife. viewing of your cameras over the internet is a free service offered by wilife for lukwerks users. the subscription services referred to in the engadget article reference some initial plans regarding the internet service and are no longer correct. the service is free.
