i presently have a amd duron 950 mhz computer with 368 mb of ram with a atx tower case & 250 power supply.windows xp with a 8x4x32cdr_cddrw and a dvd drive. my problem is my hard drive is only 20 gb and i only have 3 gb left and was looking into purchasing a external hard drive but was told by a computer tech that i would be better off getting an upgraded computer with a better motherboard with an internal hard drive (160gb). i only use my computer for the internet and storing my pictures and music. what should i do, purchase an upgraded computer or put in a new 160 gb hard drive.
it depends if your still satisfied with the performance and utility the computer is giving you. buying a 160gb drive might be a problem if your motherboard won't support it. if i were satisfied with this computer i would get a couple of 80gb hard drives. use one for your operating system and applications and use the other for your larger media files. i assume you have usb support, but is it usb 1.1 or usb 2.0. usb 1.1 is about one tenth the speed and you might not be satisfied with the data transfer speed when loading photo files. again, the motherboard has to support the higher speed. an external drive does have the advantage of doubling as a &quot;backup&quot; drive should the system drive fail. it's up to you. sooner or later you are going to want to upgrade but it doesn't necessarily have to be now, especially if you are satisfied with what it does. hope this helps a bit. let us know. and life goes on... jack
well yes and no. you could get a second internal hd, with your system 120gb would be as big as you should go. move your pictures and music to the new hd. umm, maybe a bigger psu. your usb is only 1.1 so sending to an external hd would take a while to do. i assume that you have the istall cd for xp, you can get cpu mb combos from fry's and tirgerdirect for $70~100. new psu for $40~50. 512mb of memory $40 after rebate. even a new video card $50. all of this would be $200~250 and be 4 times faster than your current pc. john
you might as well get a new machine. belive me there are systems out there that are cheap as $500. you should get an emachines, they provide a solid value and many come with an agp slot for some good gaming. my cheap system even came with a dvd burner.
thank you for your imput. i think i will follow your advice.
yes, life goes on. but with me, computers are very difficult. i want something a little better but wondering if i realy need it. i know i need a new hd but again, you mentioned i need a new usb2. as i only have two usb1 with a hub. so there are things i should upgrade and i think i will upgrade as with another hd and a new usb port. thanks
ignore this post if you've already upgraded: i think the newest emachines, on sale for about $600 would be perfect: speedy cpu: amd 3500+ (939 pin, good for future cpus) empty pcie x16 slot gracious 200gb harddrive dvd burner enought ports for you, an 8-1 card reader with tons of usb ports... here is the official site:  just an idea.....
dear uncertain: i fix many customer computers. the first thing i do when i meet with a customer is understand his needs, not mine. you sound like a very light user who is happy with his computer but needs more disk space. a savvy tech can transfer all of the information from your current drive to the new drive without skipping a heartbeat. then you could use your existing drive to copy files to for backup. in addition, partitioning the new drive with system and data partitions would give you added reliabilty against system failures. you processor and ram are adequate for the average user and fulfill the needs for xp. as i said, if that is the only issue (disk space), then you could probably get by another 3 years or so with your current system. if you think you need or want a new system go for it.
i have faced the same question that you have now several times in the past and its one that only you can truely answer. you have several options. 1. you can add more ram very inexpensively. this could be below $100. in cost. 2. you can add another hard drive for well under $100. and still use your current hard drive. 3. you could purchase a barebones system and add your cd/dvd/floppy and all of the other extras you currently have for well under $400. if you do not use your computer for anything other than the normal surfing and word documents your speed for the processor is fine, however, if you are looking for mp3/dvd downloading you probably will want to upgrade to a faster speed for your cpu. the computer i just built cost me under $900. and it is pretty good too. it has an amd 64-bit 2800 processor using a mach speed 754 motherboard and corsair for the ram. barebone system $199 ram 2g $205 hard drive 80g $ 89 17&quot; flat panel $247 ati video card w/256gddr $120 total $860 all of these prices were with no rebates and includes the shipping. i put this together myself so it didn't cost me anymore for the labor. my system kicks and i can do just about anything. i won't have to do another upgrade for at least a year or two.
if your computer has been reliable and you are not using it for anything but internet and picture storage, all you need is a bigger hard drive. keep in mind eventually your system may not be able to run future programs due to speed and other limitations. check hard drive prices and compare what it would cost to get a new computer with the hard drive size you want. prices on low end machines are pretty cheap. i personally am a mac user and will never go back to windows! check out the new imacs.
...but only if you feel the system is ''sluggish'' for what you do. otherwise, turn a deaf ear to the ''upsellers''. i'm so tired of seeing people, who will only ever email & websurf, get sold a windows media center edition pc (w/dvd burner, tv tuner, 7.1 sound, etc...) w/p4, mega-ghz. cpu's & gb of ram. unless you feel you need more- just look for a great deal on a new hard drive, as you planned. that, alone, will speed things up immensely (3gb of free space isn't fun for the system to maneuver in). i recently picked up a 200gb seagate (only maker to offer 5 yr. warranty) for $50 after $50 rebate- free shipping, too. a good, reputable online vendor is newegg.com. an 80gb just cost a client $56. many of the drive maker's include disk cloning tools on their cd that comes with the drive. this allows you to move the existing system to the newer, larger drive. however, if it were me, i'd opt for a fresh install of xp- unless it was loaded recently. ram is always a good investment- assuming a good price & open slots on the board. if increasing ram means you'd have to pull a smaller stick out to do it- then forget that. good luck & have fun with the new drive, tracy ps- if & when you decide on a 2nd pc, keep the original as a spare.
hello, your bios may not recognize a 160 gig hard drive. due to bios limitations as well as those unique to windows, partitioning and formatting drives larger than 137 gigabytes without proper driver or controller support will result in data loss when storing data to the drive beyond the 137 gb barrier. in order for you system to recognize more than 137 gb you will need to utilize one of the following recommended solutions: if you have a motherboard that has a intel chipset (810, 810e, 810e2, 815, 815, 815e, 815ep, 815p, 820, 820e, 830m, 830mp, 830mg, 840, 845, 850, or 860) please visit intel's web site and download the intel application accelerator. intel's application accelerator supports the full capacity of drives larger than 137 gb. if you do not have a motherboard that has a intel chipset then it is recommended that you purchase an ultra ata 133 pci card that supports 48 bit logical block addressing (lba). you can purchase the maxtor ultra ata 133 pci card, which supports drives that are larger than 137 gb, directly from us or your local distributor. if you do not follow either of the above steps, and you attempt to use a drive that exceeds 137 gb and/or that relies on 48-bit logical block addressing by attempting to &quot;tweak&quot; the system even though your ata controller, chipset drivers and/or system bios do not properly support 48-bit logical block addressing, data loss will occur when storing data to the drive beyond the barrier.
if all you do is surf the net and store pictures, i see no need to upgrade. but! your older pc will most likely not use usb 2.0 that is alot faster than usb 1.1. most external hard drives use usb 2.0 but are backwards compatible to 1.1 - but are very slow using 1.1. i would say get the hdd and possibly a usb 2.0 expansion card to install into the computer case. the card should not be more than 20 bucks.
if you want to go cheap, look for a used hd. ebay, amazon, overstock auctions, even possibly a refurbished one. i've bought a few to put in older pc's to sell. there are always (of course) risks, to buying used. i would probably just look for a deal on a new 40+gb. that way you can always re-use it when you get a newer pc. i have no idea why people are bringing up more memory. your guestion was about your lack of storage, and had nothing to do with memory. 368mb is more than adequate for what you are doing, and is probably all you can use in a pentium 3, (some p3's won't allow more than 256mb). from your question, it sounds like the simple solution is to increase your storage, and worry about a new computer later.
my idea for your situation is pretty close to the others. buy a usb 2.0 expansion card very inexpensive and easy to install with xp, just carefully plug it into an open pci slot. then get an external hard drive 120 gig should do and this is the low end of the price spectrum right now and you will not have to worry about possible bios limitations. move as many user created files as you can to this to free up more space on your c: drive give it some more breathing room. then you have a great external backup drive for a new system down the road a few years and a very easy way to transfer files to a new machine later on too.
your computer does what you want, so a new pci card with usb 2.0 and a new external hard drive will solve your problem. although you may also need some tech service to install the pci card if you're not sure that you can do it... i would say that the whole upgrade would cost you around $105 - $150, including a decent size external hard drive. now, your computer does what you want but everything can be done much faster, and it's not going to live forever! withing the next couple of years, if you try to install a new program, you may have troubles and disappointment. within the next couple of years, certain parts of your computer may die... etc. i would rather invest on a new computer than on upgrades for an old one, specially after 3 years have passed since i bought the computer. but that's just me and you just have to think if it's worth it now, to spend the money on upgrades rather than on a new computer. because the upgrades cost you 1/4 or 1/5 of the new computer and you won't get as many advantages as with a new computer! good luck with whatever you decide! and try to get an amd athlon or athlon 64 or pentium 4 if you actually buy a new computer (athlon 64 is the best right now). no celeron, duron or sempron... their processors are not as efficient and your computer will become old faster.
i reread your post and realized you have an amd duron, not a p4. i still say you don't need more memory, and your mobo probably doesn't support it.
just watch the weekend flyer's and you can get a 80gb internal hd for $30 to $40 after rebate. the rest seems ok for your stated use. if you want a new computer--the day after thanksgiving the stores will have a adequate new box for $200-$300 complete.
the make and model number of your computer will help us make a better decision on how to help you. a simple internal hard drive is all you seem to require for now. a 120 gb drive can be bought for $100 and with rebates bring the cost down to $30! just watch your weekly ads like best buy, circut city, ect.. internal hard drives are cheaper than external and not that difficult to install. if you need help just ask this forum, we love to help. since you are running winxp a memory upgrade can be both cheap (depending on if it is pc133/100 or the newer ddr ram) and very easy to install. xp is a lot happier with at least 512mb of ram. again, watch the weekly ads. as i noted, info on your computer is helpfull so we can steer you in the right direction.
i would say sice all you do is search internet and pics is try a bigger drive. dont got any bigger than 40 gig as youre pc may not recognise anything biiger! go get one of real fast 36 gig drives i believe made by seagate
ross, i too am a consultant who tries to put my customer's needs ahead of my profit. your machine is midlle-of-the road. the duron is not a great performer and usb 1.1 connectors are a limitation. 368m of ram is a little light, but i'll bet you already upgraded that once. having said that, unless you are going to radically increase your use, i would stick where you are, and buy a new machine only when you have hardware failures in the future. here's a few things to consider: 1) i don't see where you mention that you tried windows disk cleanup to recover space on your hard drive. in windows xp, there is a easy utility in the performance and maintenance area of control panel to do the cleanup. 17g of space used is a whole lot. most users with your situation have a lot of unneeded data on their hard disk instead of data they want. i have been able to delete gigabytes of data when i show people what is presently on disk, wthout affecting their everyday use. an often forgotten space hog in system recovery. this a nice feature if you make a change that breaks the system, but often too much space is allocated for pcs where little changes on a day-to-day basis. if you are running stably now, with no virus/spyware concerns, you can turn off system recovery, which erases the older restore points, then you can immediately turn it back on a create a new one to return to. (note that this technique is often recommended to clean up virus and spyware infestations by the major av vendors.) this will free up space that is essentially useless: you would never go back to those points anyway. 2) your windows xp license is probably not transferable to a new pc. when you try to activate it, microsoft may tell you that you have to buy a new retail license. that is a big cost factor in an upgrade, so you're generally better off buying a new pc. 3) if you decide to buy an external drive, you can also get a usb 2.0 or firewire add-in card for your present pc, that will overcome some of the data transfer limitation. $29 is a fairly common cost. 4) never forget that a hard drive, internal or external, is a very fragile storage place for things you really want to keep, like family pictures or tax info for instance. they do fail, and fail catastrophically, without an affordable means of recovery. these should be burned to a cd for safe keeping, copied onto a second cd, and one copy should be stored away from your home. if you lose or misplace a copy don't forget to make another. thanks!
wanted to mention, using an external hard drive should make transferring to a new pc in the future much easier ...
if you're really happy with what you have now, then just get another internal hardrive. check up with your motherboard (mobo) on what's supported. -find out the largest capacity supported. if it's not as much, you could still get a larger one than that and just partition it to utilize the full space. &gt;winxp will require sp1 or greater to read hds greater than 137gb in capacity even if your mobo supports it. &gt;bios updates may be necessary as well. -7200 rpm -2mb buffer cache was standard on older hds. 8mb is mainstream now, with 16mb already out.... mostly on newer/larger hds. 2mb isn't &quot;death&quot; perse, but 8mb would help cut back on some bottlenecking that occurs in hds. -maxtor, seagate, western digital are among some of the good brands out there in hds -how an internal hd connects to your pc. for yours, likely the older ide interface (with the wide 'ribbon' cables). sata is a thin cable that's on newer pcs a usb 2.0 card (try to have at least 4 ports. like with hardrive space, you don't need a super amt of it, but some more than you need is always handy to have) for fast transfers if you decide to also utilize external hds. perhaps more system ram. if you feel winxp has been running slower or sluggish, then shoot for more ram. 512mb will up the performance dramatically for more resource intensive tasks and/or more simultaneous tasks w/o puttng a huge hit on your budget
no. keep your existing drive & set it as slave. install a new, larger drive, set it as master & backup your variable files (eg. word documents, excel spreadsheets, graphic & sound files) to the smaller one. take the time to move those to a cd every month or so, & you'll have an ongoing backup so that when, not if, either or both hdds die you won't lose everything.
i am the person who also has the same requirements to store movies,pics,music & games.so i would advise you to just buy a hard drive that is if u r happy with ur current pc if u want to upgrade this is the right time to do it.there is a problem when u r buying a new pc the pheripherals always do not work reliably.
- if your regular task is doing internet surfing stuffs... there is no need to spend $$$ to get a new machine, in these days, external hd is cheap, you can get a named brand hd for under $100. see below url links. - you can save your files in the new drive, then take the drive to your friend's place to swap/exchange files, or when later on, you decided to get a new pc, you still can use this external drive. - one advise is, you should save all your personal files in this new drive, it will be easier to do backup the whole drive any time, and when windows crash (or running too slow), re-install (or restore) the whole system on the old drive as a new system. and you still have your data on the side (the new drive) - as long as you get a hard drive less than 128gb, you most likely will not have any issue with the partition being too big issue (if you do not know what this mean, don't worry about it... just get one under 120gb, you should be fine.) [if this doesnt work return it just make sure you can do so before you purchase the drive.] - check your cpu's manual, if your cpu not support usb2, then may be go get an internal card for about $20. you don't really need to get it right away, just stick the new drive in, and follow the instructions to set it up (may need to partition/format), and start to use it... if you &quot;feel&quot; it is too slow, then you can go and get the internal card. inserting the internal usb card is very easy, if you don't think you are comfortable to do so... ask for help... or just save the headache and continue enjoy the &quot;slow&quot; ride... good luck. ------- hi-speed usb 2.0 pci card - 5 port usb 2.0 pci card (four external and one internal) ($19)  maxtor - personal storage 3100 100 gb external usb hard drive ($96)  iomega - silver series 80gb usb external hard drive ($89)
recently i had a similar problem with a celeron 500mhz pc. it was taking over 3 minutes to boot and even then it was so slow it was almost unusable, and the 2g disk was nearly full. but it so happened i had a spare 60g disk from a much newer pc, and noting the old fashioned 40-way ribbon on the old drive, i decided to install an ide interface card and hooked up the 60g with an 80-way cable. wow, what a difference! less than 2 minutes to boot and copying files is 3 times faster than before. plus i have lots of space free. i also found a very useful program on the maxtor website which can set up a new drive and transfer everything over from the old drive and make it boot. it seems to work with non-maxtor drives too. maxblast 4 :  after than i decided to go one step further - my motherboard manual indicated that the pc would take a pentium 3 to replace the celeron. now, i have to say that some research is required here as not all pentiums work on all boards - but in the end i bought a secondhand p3 600mhz for $10 via ebay. this upgrade got me another significant speed increase - hard to define but windows &quot;feels&quot; faster. i would definitely recommend a hard disk upgrade - plus an ide card if your current pc can't cope with the 80 way udma cable. as mentioned in some of the other posts, keep the size down to avoid bios troubles.
hello there, you asking do i really need a new computer. ok i am asuming you use your pc for browsing picture storage and music so i would say that all you need is a new hard drive, in my opinion you have enough pc specs to perform the required operations on your pc a secondary hard drive used as storage would save your c: local disk. hard drives are cheap these days can if you are not able to fit one yourseft take your computer to a small pc store or pc technician and request a hd install. if you only have the space for only 1 hd then you will need your windows xp installation cd and cd's for all your hardware or download the necessary software to get your hardware operational if you plan to do a clean install.
and are you likely to want to do things that require more power? for example, if you plan to go broadband, your processor power becomes limited on surfing. 950 mhz is really quite slow; i'd vote for the upgrade, unless you want to hold out for when the next os comes out. my rule of thumb is to go for the new system if the other upgrades add up to 50% of the cost of a new one, and i suspect that a new hd and usb 2.0 (which your motherboard may not support, btw -- be sure to check that out!) is close to that level. and i strongly second the suggestion of a second external hd as backup -- getting one of those last christmas saved my bacon when my main hd mysteriously failed to boot one day a couple months later. -- dave k.
your computer is fine all you need to do is upgrade the hard drive. you have several options, you can choose from a: get an internal hard drive, the limitation on this is you cannot take it with you. b: get an exteranl and be able to take it with you. sounds to me like the computer tech was trying to make some money off of you. a 160gb hard drive will store alot of media that should be plenty. one thing to keep in mind is the price on drives you will probably spend more on an external than you will on an internal.
really no, for what you do, all you really need is a new hard drive, and any good pc shop should be able to copy all your data from the 20 gig hard drive to the 160 gig hard drive and save the 20 gig for additinal storage, or leave it out all together.... if you're not a gamer and use the pc for only what you stated, a bigger hard drive is all you need.....
you do not absolutely have to get a new computer. if you are not overly worried about speed, then in order to save money, i would reccomend you just buy an internal harddrive and set up it up as a slave drive. you should see the documentation with the new hard drive on how to do this. anyways it is realativly simple it's just a matter of setting a jumper. so try that instead of getting a new system.
to store music and photos and surf the net you do not need to replace your pc. of course you need to replace your tiny 20 gb hard disk. i own a 3ghz p4 pc and a 933 mhz p3 (more or less equivalent to yours). both perform beautifully. i got the p4 because i edit videos and that was a litte too much for the p3. i needed more speed in rendering the videos. the p4 is about 30% faster than the p3 in my video work. as for needing usb2 you can get a pci usb2 card for about $19. that is what i did with my p3. broadband works fine in both. there is no difference in speed between the two. even the fastest internet connection is a lot slower than any modern pc (i would say above pentium 2). get the largest hard disk size you can afford. most brands include drivers to install them in any pc, whether the bios accept them or not. so, while your needs do not include video editing and mpeg2 rendering or anything very cpu speed dependent keep your present pc.
you say your main uses on this machine are web browsing and digital photography. with that in mind you must seriously consider how much time you spend on the machine performing these tasks when you consider an upgrade. as we near 2006 you also may want to consider the looming release of windows vista, with extremely high hardware requirements your current rig will not touch upon being able to run it well. with that bit of information touched upon you might now look at how much you want to spend on such an old machine. with newer machines using sata drives any drive you buy to upgrade this old machine will be totally obsolete as soon as you open the box. i could go into depth on these topics and i just may on another day but for now i leave you with this suggestion. if you aren't very tech literate and rely on hiring others for help then you should choose a new system because not only does it provide you with more hard drive space but you also get a warranty to help support you if a problem arrives.
rather than upgrading your obsolete pc, you should consider a computer like the hp a1100e. this is their base system, and it costs $250. spend another $70 on the 160 gig hd (from hp), and buy another 256 mb of ram from newegg.com. this computer will blow away what you have right now, and you will not need to upgrade for a couple of years. if you are happy with your periphrals, you should not buy any new ones. perhaps consider an 80 gig hd, rather than 160. it will save you $$$, and it's still 4 times bigger than what you have. it would take a true music/ photo junkie to fill a 160 gig hd. but if you have the $$$, go for the 160. just a thought.
i'm begging you, don't get an emachines. i had one and returned it. the hardware was ok enough, but it was the bastardized copy of xp that i couldn't deal with. i thought i hated xp until i saw a &quot;normal&quot; copy.
there are plenty of budget desktop offerings from dell, gateway, and hp. just have to keep your eyes open and see which offer is good for the taking.
