my keyboard doesn't work. or, more accurately, my keyboard works only before windows loads (i.e. it works to get into the bios, it works to navigate in the bios, it works if i use a boot disk to load dos, etc). once windows xp loads, i have no keyboard functionality. i've gone into device mangaer several times to uninstall and re-install the drivers, both in safe mode and regular mode. no go. i've tried deleting the drivers and replacing them with &quot;fresh&quot; copies from the xp cd. no go. i've run windows update. no go. i've updated the drivers for my other hardware. no go. i've even tried to do a repair installation of xp with the cd. let me tell you, entering your product key when you have no keyboard really sucks. and it still didn't work afterwards. it's not the keyboard, because it works on other computers. it's not the port, because it works as long as windows isn't running. it's a ps/2 keyboard, and i haven't yet tried a usb keyboard, i'm looking for a friend who has one that i can borrow. any ideas from anyone? i've hit a wall. i don't know what else to try. --chriscrutch
i ran into this with a logitech keyboard driver. the driver was flawed and to logitech's discredit the method to fix it keeps moving on their web site. it's a common issue that keeps coming back to some that ... install keyboard enhancers. bob
i probably shoud have said this in the first post, but it is a logitech keyboard and driver that i'm working with. any idea where to find the solution (or what to look for) on logitech's website? i was on there once already, but it was just a cursory search because i didn't expect to find anything. thanks for the tip! --chriscrutch
here's one removal page from logitech.
thanks for the article. i'm going to email logitech and see if they can give me the url for the keyboard version of that page. this worked great for getting rid of the mouseware program, but i need the itouch program installed. this is probably the closest i've come to a solution, after working on this problem for over a week and taking about it on three discussion boards. thanks so much. it goes to show that sometimes personal experience can win out over pure, unadulterated knowledge. --chriscrutch
