hello everybody, i now have two hard drives, both with windows xp sp2 on them. currently the original hdd is now connected. i installed a new 320 gb wd caviar hard drive in our desktop computer where the original 120 gb seagate barracuda hdd was located. i successfully installed windows xp sp2 on the new hdd. i reinstalled the original hdd beneath the new one. i disconnected the new hdd. i then reconnected the original hdd until we have time to install all the updates, drivers, etc, as we ran out of time and needed the computer. we wish to keep the old hard drive as it is for now, until we can transfer just the files we need to the new hdd. we would then format the old hdd and use it without windows xp. the jumpers on both hdds are at factory settings. the data cable (which is round) is labeled: &quot;master&quot; and &quot;slave&quot;. our computer is about 3 years old, purchased from a local shop: amd athlon xp 3000 2.16 ghz, 2 gb ram, ati all-in-wonder w/128mb ram, 120 bg seagate barracuda hdd. i need to know what my options are. questions: 1. is our cable possibly a &quot;cable select&quot; type & how can i check? 2. do i need to do anything with the jumpers? 3. can i now connect both hdds? 4. if yes, what will happen when i start the computer? 5. how might we transfer files from on hdd to another? 6. can we access both hdds without rebooting, how does this work? to all: tia fro your help. dan
did you buy a retail wd kit or an oem drive? if former, there should be an accompanying cd with migration software and instructions on how to move everything from old drive to new w/o re-installing os. at your knowledge level that's probably the best solution.
thank you for the response. we purchased the wd hdd retail. we do not want to copy anything but some specific files from the old hdd,...because back in february a windows auto update for ms office 2003 caused our ati video card to stop working properly. we turned off auto update. we contacted ms and ati about this and nothing they recommended has restored the tv function to our computer. that includes current updates to the drivers and ms help suggestions, reinstalling drivers, etc.. the store we purchased the pc from recommended formating the hdd. we do not want to copy the problems from the old hdd to the new one. we wish to do a clean install with the os, the drivers, and not install ms office 2003 at all on the new drive. now, i may not fully understand how this copying software you refer to works, but i do know i don't want to duplicate the same driver conflict/problems by copying it to the new drive. thanks, dan now, can anyone please provide some answers to my questions since i have a bit more information about the issue at hand?
sam, i appreciate your help. i'm sorry if my reply was a bit testy. this computer problem has gotten to me. i hooked up the new hard drive so my wife can load the drivers and programs this weekend while i am at work. i'll try setting the jumpers to &quot;master&quot; and &quot;slave&quot; next weekend, when i am off work and do have time to work on it again. dan
2 drives with active partitions with windows, even when one is master and the other slave, is windows may get confused and write to the wrong drive. then, neither will work properly w/o the other present. better for you to get a usb enclosure or adapter such as  and connect the old drive with it.
your sata/ide to usb adapter idea sounds interesting. i appreciate the info. i better understand your earlier comments about this issue. i checked and see that local microcenter has four different models. it has been nothing but a pain since that windows auto update back in february. wife lost her tv feature she used to record shows. system restore didn't even work. google &quot;remove ms office 2003&quot;, some time, and you'll see what i mean. nothing. can't remove the update, can't remove office, can't get old or new video drivers to work. i'll be glad when my wife gets all her necessary files saved to the new hdd. i'll see about buying one of these adapters try it out next weekend when i am off work. thanks, dan
aiw cards  have always been klutzy hardware. ccc suite too. try removing ccc leaving only the hw drivers, and of course keep tv software. i dump ccc on any ati cards i use. in one installation, it caused the whole screen to be a nice shade of magnolia pink in default settings and it wasn't even spring! don't know why mso2003 and patches would be a problem. i don't use auto update but have installed mso sp3 and xp sp3 and post patches which include all previous hotfixes and some optional components from sp2. don't install hw driver updates shown in ms update unless you know for sure they will work (duh, how can anyone know that unless testing in a lab); been known to crash or hang up some pcs. auto update should not be delivering hw drivers. finally, tread carefully when using tv adapters because i have found some tuner and pvr sw break too easily when other hw/sw are installed/uninstalled. good luck with your recovery.
i got home from work tonight and the wife tells me of her adventures loading drivers onto the new hdd. then she mentions the new drive is now f:/ and she had to change things when they wanted to go to the c:/ drive. now how am i going to straighten this mess out? good lord, what next? what do i have to do to format this drive and install it so it is recognized as the c:/ drive? we had gotten as far as loading windows xp sp2, the wireless adapter for the internet, and some drivesrs. i have now reconnected the old hdd so she can use the computer until we get sorted out. boy is this a pita. please, help! dan
