hello, about 2 weeks ago my usb ports stopped functioning. it says the drivers are not installed. it won't roll them back either, it is if there never were any. i replaced my motherboard due to another issue, the drivers still will not load. i tried to load them from the motherboard cd, the windows cd and a download. when i try to load it says &quot;access denied&quot;. i need to have this fixed as i need to print some photos for my work asap. if i can't get it going today i am going to wipe and reload my hard drive tonight. please help if any of you have advice. david
1. microsoft rarely gets drivers correct. 2. you neglected the tip: that is just above the message body and subject that notes you should tell what os and more: &quot;if you are asking for help to troubleshoot a computer-related problem, please be sure to include all the necessary information (ie: operating system, model number, hardware, software, etc) that will help others identify your problem for a speedy resolution.&quot; 3.  notes many things about usb. including current bios, enabling usb in the bios, drivers for the motherboard, administrator install of drivers in xp/nt/2000/2003 and more more more. 4. if it's for work, then your it staff should be called in. best of luck and if you reload the hard disk, then be sure to record all the steps for faster reinstall the next time. bob
hey thnaks. i am using windows xp home edition. i looked at usbman but could not find anything relevant. as far as the bios, i don't know how to get into it with the new board.
if you can't get into the bios and you don't know the make/model of your machine or board, usbman won't help much. as to the bios, check the manual or tell the make/model of machine or board. generic boards use the del key, and usbman notes that usb should be &quot;enabled.&quot; the error messages in windows are often mis-programmed and &quot;denied&quot; could be because your account is not capable of installing drivers (administrator capable?) or the usb ports are disabled. bob
thanks. i will ltry to get in the bios and check it when i go to lunch today.
