good day, i know laugh at the newbiee.. however i have the following system on order and am waiting for it to arrive. emachines t6524 amd athlon 64 3500+ 2.2ghz / 1gb ddr / 200gb hdd / dual layer dvdrw/ integrated ati radeon xpress 200 / flash media reader / windows xp media center 2005 /. now all that looks real pretty to me being a novice and upgrading from an hp pavilion v70s running the windows xp home edtion. i also have an xbox 360 and am wating to see how the two inter-react with each other. i have discovered cnet and am looking for a breakdown of the specs as to what it is, what it does and and how to upgrade if possible. i have been bouncing around seeking information. thanks
ok, so let's break down what you are getting into a few different pieces here: model #: emachines t6524 cpu: amd athlon 64 3500+ 2.2ghz ram: 1gb ddr hd: 200gb capicity optical drive: dual layer dvdrw graphics card: integrated ati radeon xpress 200 flash media reader (not sure on this) o/s: windows xp media center 2005. so, let's go through this bit by bit: cpu: amd is advanced micro devices and are a very well known cpu maker, intel is the other big kahuna here. the &quot;athlon 64&quot; is a model number so that you have a 64 bit processor using the athlon line as opposed to their budget one. the 3500+ is a performance index, some of the other ones go up to 5000+ in the newest 64 x2 which is a dual core ones. the 2.2 ghz is the cpu speed. ram: this is the random access memory and is where things are stored in memory when your computer is running usually. bigger is better and 1 gb is a little above the common minimum of 512 mb in most new systems. my current laptop for example has 2 gb of ram but then part of that is i wanted extra ram in my machine since i tend to have some applications that use quite a bit like microsoft's visual studio. hd: hard drive is where you store various files. 200 gb is a decent sized hd though some go for the big stuff like 500 gb or that new one from seagate that has 750 gb for the upper threshold. my laptop has a mere 75 gb so your new one beats that. dual layer dvdrw: this indicates that it can read and write dvds which is a feature on my laptop though my previous desktop didn't have a dvd drive. graphics card: some will call this a video card and it is the same thing, it is what translates the computer code into a display and the more memory the better on these and depending on what games you'd play you may need some of the top of the line ones. flash media reader: i have no clue on this, sorry. o/s: windows xp media center 2005. microsoft puts out a few different flavors of xp and generally there are 3 kinds for most folks: home, media center and pro. home is the simplest and doesn't have many bells and whistles. pro is what most companies have and does have a few special add-ons since this is commonly used on networks. then there is the media center edition which i'm still researching a bit but seems to have some special things for audio and video and most systems have a built in tv tuner and other features to make their computer into an all-in-one entertainment center. hopefully that helps decode things somewhat. if you want further answers just ask as this was a general stab at things. regards, jb
thanks jb, i'm getting the system for a fair price..from tigerdirect. i'm looking forward to the challenge of trying to understand all this &quot;tech&quot; i've seen both good & bad comments on this system cnet seems to have given it a 7 of 10. looking forward to getting the biggest bag for my buck with further research. once again thanks for your kind & knowledgeable reply. movin
that ''ati radeon xpress 200'' is not a dedicated video card. it is video circuitry integrated into the motherboard that uses some of the slower system memory (ram). to make the system a good gaming computer, many have added a dedicated video card (one that has its own very fast memory) to the empty pci express x16 slot in the motherboard and disabled the onboard video. this also means that they install a higher wattage power supply unit (psu) to handle the video card.
thanks for the explanation and advice. i'm looking forward to playing with the system and with a little help from cnet forums getting the big bang for my $$ thanks again movin
