hi, about me: i am from india - mumbai i am planning to buy a new router for my home use.. my setup/details: i will install this router in my living room (hall). i have 3 pcs in all in a 3000 sq.ft. flat. i also want to access internet from this router using my ipad2 + mobile. (want best wifi connectivity, long range preferred) i have internet access via cable lan (2 mbps line at present will upgrade to 8 mbps next month) from  my requirements: i want to connect all my 3 pcs internally (networking) via this router. i have a wired lan setup, so that this 3 pcs can talk to each other if they are connected to a router/switch from my living room. (i need fast file/transfer between this 3 pcs) there are many it geeks in my building (i want best security via this router) none of my pcs has inbuilt wifi (can i get a feature in router someway which can help me connect all 3 pcs to each other wireless (without using wired cable which i am doing at present) i want best security + best features + best future ready router (pricing is not an issue) please suggest me best option: this is the best i could have found in my area/city, can you help me decide from this 4 routers.  [...] c4f3zfwgmw if there are any other options you can suggest me depending upon my country. please do. regards,
in the usa and most countries there are legal limits to how much power your router and devices can emit. so what you should discover is that there is not perfect router that rules them all. i have many routers if you count the ones at the office but for home i picked a simple netgear 3800. it covers an area half your space with ease and further at lower numbers of bars. but i wonder why you are asking this question. that is, you should have seen this question before and know what the answer is. bob
hello, we do not have any such legal problem in india as of now for the router power etc for home users. i want the best router so that i can use it at home (in an office environment too). i have not seen this question before anywhere, as i am the one making it on few more sites, as i have to purchase this today, we have some clients expected in office and have to show them important presentations. i posted this question on tomshwardware too, if i can get better solution from available choices i have. i have only following routers i can buy in my city at present (apart from the flipkart link i gave you above), please let me know if you can suggest something.
most people will have there own opinion of what is the best router so i will give you mine. i have the netgear wndr 4500 router and couldn't ask for more from a router. my garage is not attached and is about 65 feet from the router located in the house. that would be thru 4 walls total. i can take my ipad to the furthermost end of the garage and still have 3 bars and never skips a beat. i have a smart tv, wireless blu-ray player, ipad, laptop, smartphone, wireless printer and two more laptops plus their smartphones when the grandkids are here and have never had any problems with connections.
as you can imagine there are many reasons to limit the power of 2.4ghz. that's the frequency used in your microwave oven and you don't want too much of that. bob
hello thanks for reply. i check netgear wndr 4500 it is very promising i also have following option in my city netgear r6300 wifi router  the one you said sounds good too is it better then asus rt-n66u dual-band wireless-n900 gigabit router
will it be dangerous as all routers have minimum 2.4 ghz frequency. i have a little son 3.5 years old.
i have following options available: asus rt-ac66u 802.11ac dual-band wireless-ac1750 gigabit router  inr 17625 netgear r6300 wifi router  inr 17515 asus rt-n66u dual-band wireless-n900 gigabit router  inr 14688 netgear n900 wireless dual band gigabit router (wndr4500)  inr 13555 cisco linksys ea4500 dual-band n900 router with gigabit and usb  inr 13111
my last question, before i make a purchase tomorrow: my requirements: 1. 3000 sq. ft home/office and require solid wifi even on farthest end of office (maximum of 3 thin walls between router and last room where i will use laptop) 2. at most - 1 laptop + 1 ipad + 2 mobile will use wifi always 3. router will connect to internet using local lan on rj45 ethernet 4. 3 pcs will always connect to router using ethernet cable and use internet. (this 3 pc dont need wifi) 5. we require good file transfer speed between this 3 pc 6. a usb port on router, which will help to connect to internet using 3g dongle (a backup internet) 7. we will use future xbox and ps gaming, connect to internet using wifi 8. internet tv which will require wifi 9. capability to turn on/off wifi using a button on router (not a major requirement, if available will be great) 10. turn on/off wifi and router using the software interface of router. 11. there are many it geeks in my building (i want best security via this router) 12. play with router firmware, install/upgrade 3rd party firmware (not a major requirement, if available will be great) i have to decided to buy 1 of following products only, please suggest me which one should i select from this 4 routers only. netgear r6300 asus rt-ac66u asus rt-n66u netgear wndr4500 i will purchase from flipkart, if you have any better suggestions to buy this in mumbai, it will be great:  []=sort%3dprice_desc&sid=6bo%2c70k%2c2a2&layout=grid#jumpto=114|60 thank you very much for all your help
my last question, before i make a purchase tomorrow: my requirements: 1. 3000 sq. ft home/office and require solid wifi even on farthest end of office (maximum of 3 thin walls between router and last room where i will use laptop) 2. at most - 1 laptop + 1 ipad + 2 mobile will use wifi always 3. router will connect to internet using local lan on rj45 ethernet 4. 3 pcs will always connect to router using ethernet cable and use internet. (this 3 pc dont need wifi) 5. we require good file transfer speed between this 3 pc 6. a usb port on router, which will help to connect to internet using 3g dongle (a backup internet) 7. we will use future xbox and ps gaming, connect to internet using wifi 8. internet tv which will require wifi 9. capability to turn on/off wifi using a button on router (not a major requirement, if available will be great) 10. turn on/off wifi and router using the software interface of router. 11. there are many it geeks in my building (i want best security via this router) 12. play with router firmware, install/upgrade 3rd party firmware (not a major requirement, if available will be great) i have to decided to buy 1 of following products only, please suggest me which one should i select from this 4 routers only. netgear r6300 asus rt-ac66u asus rt-n66u netgear wndr4500 i will purchase from flipkart, if you have any better suggestions to buy this in mumbai, it will be great:  []=sort%3dprice_desc&sid=6bo%2c70k%2c2a2&layout=grid#jumpto=114|60 thank you very much for all your help
