are there any netbooks out there that can be viewed in direct sunlight? almost nothing else (memory, battery life, etc.) is a concern. thoughts?
while we know the toughbooks (see google) have sunlight readable displays there is no market for the netbook version. or rather will the market be big enough to support the sunlight readable toughbook and a netbook version? i'm going with no. bob
well, i might defer to that touchscreen one from acer. t91 i think. thanks for your responce bob.
guess i'm just spoiled from using my t400 outside. i was hoping to find something in the netbook size/pricerange.
i'm assuming you're referring to glossy vs. matte displays? most netbooks and consumer laptops have glossy displays, which are next to impossible to view outdoors. there are a few netbooks that do have matte displays, however. namely the samsung nc10 and the hp mini 110. i haven't used either of them outdoors, though.
thank you. i am looking at the reviews now and may grab one of these models soon. both have reviews stating they are &quot;suitible for outdoor use.&quot; thank you for the reply.
i am not the happy owner of an hp 110-1030nr. imagine my surprise when walking through the px (military everything-type store) here in afghanistan and seeing it on display right after these posts. it came with an extended battery. i'm happy to have the extra battery life, but mixed on not being able to pack it without taking it off. but if that's the only downside, i'm sitting pretty. thanks for all of the help. chad
not = now
congratulations on your purchase. the hp mini 110 is much easier to find in retail outlets, so at least you can see what it's like in person. the samsung nc10 is much more difficult to find in retail brick-and-mortar stores, so you'd have to order one and have it shipped to you. btw a fair number of netbooks have six-cell batteries that stick out in a rather inelegant manner, e.g. dell, hp, acer, and so forth. although the extended battery life makes up for it, and then some. be safe!
the battery on this on goes straight down, creating a ninety-degree angle. it's a little odd to hold, it can potentially be a handle. but i hesitate to pack it without taking the batter off. i'll look into an extra smaller battery, that way i can pack it away, and have a few extra hours in the bag.
