my belkin wireless g mimo (f529230-4 ver 3100) loses the connection to the internet whenever i shut down my computer for a long period of time (typically overnight). it eventually regains the connection (with no further problems) after multiple attempts to use my web browser, but the times vary, and the process is annoying. never had this problem when i had no router. my dsl modem (speedstream 5100) never had this problem. belkin customer support was of no help. it seems to me like this has something to do with something timing out for lack of use, or maybe something happens when the computer shuts down, as the problem only occurs after i initially start up my computer. whatever it is i have not been able to resolve it. i have a dell dimension desktop. my control panel lists two types of connections: broadband (pppoe) and lan or high speed internet (local area connection: intel(r) pro/100 ve network connection). prior to installing the router, the modem would connect via broadband. since installing the router, it seems to connect through the local area connection (i notice that the broadband connections no longer work; they just time out now). any idea on what the problem is and how to resolve it?
it's a problem of multiple causes. your pppoe dsl is not an always on internet connection (it has to log on) so your choice on how to configure your router. mine had the pppoe and it worked fine but i needed to check off some box to &quot;stay connected.&quot; the model number seems off.  didn't find this router so i didn't look at it's manual. bob
sorry, the correct model number is f5d9230-4, ver 3100. what is weird (at least to this novice) is that when i set up the router, it stopped letting me connect through the normal dsl connection at all. it seems to now connect through the local area connection. as i write this, i am connected to the internet, but my pppoe connection says disconnected. the only connection working right now is the local area connection.
where is that? if it's on the pc then you still have the old pppoe software on the pc and that will create issues. let's recap? when we install a router to handle the pppoe we remove the pppoe from the pcs... bob
ok,i have a dell dimension desktop. when i go to control panel and then network connections, i have two basic connections: one is listed under broadband and this is titled dsl connection; this is the wan miniport (pppoe). the other connection listed is under lan or highspeed internet. this is listed as local area connection (intel(r) pro/100 ve network connection). prior to getting the router, i had to manually double click on dsl connection and then click on connect to get on the internet (it used to automatically connect, but this stopped at some point, and i was never able to find the option to select automatic connection). after getting the router, the dsl connection does not connect at all. it remains disconnected. the local area connection is connected, and this is apparently how i am getting on. when i set up the router, i did it using the setup cd, and nothing came up about deleting my pppoe. in fact, i initially was unable to connect at all following the setup. i called belkin and they had me manually configure the router for a pppoe connection. at that point, i was able to connect. now my only current problem is the lost connection when starting up. once i regain it, it is never lost, it just consistently is not there when i start up.
this is why i'm noting it. most support calls will omit this nugget. bob
