hello. my pc is shutting itself down without provocation. i can't attribute it to any particular use or software. it just happens sometimes. sometimes, but not all the time, on restart a screen appears that says that there is a cpu temperature error and to press f1 to continue. i've vacuumed the vents and ensured that there is adequate ventilation but this keeps happening. is the fan assembly what needs to be replaced? how can i figure this out? any suggestions greatly appreciated. stuart
open the box and confirm that the cpu fan is spinning?
it is spinning, and it has never sounded or acted unusual before the pc decides to shut itself off. any other thoughts?
that will explain that.
temps.
looks like i have a little homework to do. appreciate the suggestions. stuart
that took care of my clients computer. it was shutting off...freezing...not responding. simple reapplication of thermal paste did the job. good luck
probably no harm in doing that. however, doing anything to something that didn't need fixin' might make the problem worse vice better. i'd rather research and pinpoint the problem more before executing unneeded fixes. i like idea of checking temps first .. before tearing stuff apart and reapplying tp. it could be something as simple as the cpu fan. just my 2 cents. vapcmd
so if it is the cpu fan....he's still going to &quot;tear stuff&quot; apart. before spending money on a new cpu fan, if you have tp, reapply some and see what happens. if no luck, then get new cpu fan. good luck
and experience. it's infinitely better to determine that the problem is the cpu temp by installing free software and checking the temps than pulling the hs fan and applying the tp only to find that wasn't the problem to begin with. too many cases where mbs or cpus are damaged during removal or reinstallation the cpu and hsfan. i'd rather see him/her replace a dead fan (on a hs) vice pulling the hs fan and just reapplying new tp...especially if thermal paste/compound was aok to begin with. some might describe this as the 'if it ain't broke, don't fix it' philosophy. vapcmd
i would first unplug all my peripherals.. and then remove the digtial sound card..and follow up by removeing all those software programs.. and try a re-start.....what happens?? .. ok..things run good..don't re-install the digtial sound card..you will need to turn-on the integrated sound in the system set up program..f2.. once that is done..re-install the peripherals you use..usb 2.0..ok they run good.. if its that simple..you need to stop useing some incompatible software that was useing the digital sound card.. .. to use a digital sound card you should have a pentium 4 processor..and 512mbs ram.. .. audio projects alone are safe w/celeron..video requires p4..minimum.. .. sometimes i need to remove some software programs i use like once..and then they just sit there for months..remove stuff you don't use more than once..and re-install it if you need it again.. .. i'm quessing your sound card.
after reading the debate with interest, i decided to go the software download route. i downloaded and ran sensorsview and it reports a high cpu temperature between 78-85c (not sure what it should normally be). so now is the time for the application of thermal paste? or a new fan? or a new cpu altogether? help greatly appreciated. stuart
strenuos ? what cpu are you running ? the least expensive solution is pulling the hs fan, removing the old thermal pad or paste....and reapplying new tp. on the otherhand ...if you run the system hard ...maybe it's time get a better, more efficient hs fan. vapcmd
