i believe it is a mobo issue. motherboard is a msi pm8m-v chip is a celerond 2.93 ghz have installed 512mb ultra ram pc 3200 have tried numerous cdroms by different makers. first try to install xp pro, i'm advised in a blue screen of death that the acpi button is not comliant and i should update the bios. 1. i have updated the bios from version 2.0 to 2.2. i used the manufacurer's website and am sure i have used the correct drivers. 2. i also disabled the acpi options in the bios. i've disabled all the onboard items, tried moving midway through the ''d'' files the installation slows to a crawl and the installation program claims it cannot ''find'' file driver.cab. if i try again it will not be able to ''find'' another file in the same section. 3. i have tried different cd-rom drives to get around this issue. it always crashes about the same place. 4. i've tried different installation disks and different operating systems types. no luck. even my knoppix (linux on cd) cd hangs. 5. i've moved cables, the ram, reset the bios, tried diffrent parts. nothig is working. basically my bag of tricks is empty. the bios posts just fine, i just can't get any os to isntall. any ideas out there?
could be power supply rating, bad ram, bad board, bad cpu. the hard disk is unlikely since knoppix is a cd boot. time to call the maker up and ask what parts they want to exchange. bob
thanks for confirming my opinion. i've called the seller and will be exchanging the mobo. i'm just not looking forward to tearing it all apart. ;-( such is life. thank you again for your time.
it's an overlooked component. some try something they had laying around or think &quot;350 watts should be plenty.&quot; bob
i'm not sure of the brand, i'm not at work right now. i doubt it was a name brand. i did try another different stick of ram and got knoppix to load but not xp. thing is the overzealous person in purchasing immediately took the upc's for the cpu and ram to send in for the rebates. she did this while i was away from my desk and had them mailed before i knew what she had done. grrr. so i can't return the ram or the cpu even if i wanted to. i would have asked her to wait until i was completely done. i'll try an alternate power supply first thing in the am. this is so weird, i've never had a mobo post but then not work right.. thanks again for all the advice, you have know idea how much i value your time!
the sign of failed boots is typical of the 350 and smaller psus. while those should be enough...
