does anyone know if there is a way to enable the usb port of a tv to access video files held on a nas drive? my aim is to access the drive via wifi or ethernet. presumably it would need to present the drive as a mass storage device to the tv's usb port since that's basically what the port picks up. any suggestions would be most welcome. the tv does not support dlna and i'm trying to avoid having to buy a separate media player e.g. wd live tv box. &lt;div&gt; &lt;/div&gt;
this sounds like the fellow i met yesterday that wanted to make cellular phone calls without a cell phone. rather than upset him i just nodded a lot. for you my nod is to the logitech revue. bob
i hear what you're saying but the budget won't stretch that far! is there any kit which might achieve what i'm looking for? i imagine others will have considered this as it would seem to be an obvious solution to centrally accessing media files for viewing on the telly. a lot of modern tvs have pretty good built in media players. but is it possible?
because such needs some little computer in a box (like the revue and such) and that i limit explanations to 3 or less paragraphs let's go with this. -&gt; what have you found that does what you want for your price? if nothing then what happens if you try the 99 buck price? and wait, wait, don't tell me about the roku stick at  bob
i was just hoping there might be a cheap and simple piece of kit which might achieve what i'm after. i've done some research and haven't found anything - hence my question. i realise that if it ends up costing the same as a media streaming box then it would be pointless! has anyone found a set-up which does this simply and cheaply?
i've seen the older roku refurbs on woot.com for 49 bucks. but i had that and gave it to my brother and now have the logitech revue which is now 99 bucks. there is a zero cost solution you may have already. hook up your pc to the tv and you are done. bob
i suspect that might be the only realistic option!
there are 2 devices which do exactly what i'm looking for:   the first is reported to be the better device, and they're not that cheap so it's questionable whether these would be worth the money over a network/dnla type media player.
and less capable. good luck and tell us how it turns out.
today it looks like you can get both units for 89.95.
