my mickey mouse phone company (citizen's telecom/frontier communications) wants an arm and a leg to &quot;rent&quot; their 356k dsl wireless modem each month. but they say i can buy one from a third party, & they'll hook it up for $25. i'd like to be able to buy & intall one myself, but i'm not sure which type i'll need, which manufacturer is best. gateway, 2 wire, or whichever company can provide the cheapest that will do the job. i am a senior citizen, running mac osx10.4.11. can anyone advise me? every penny counts. thanx
i loaned my dsl modem to a neighbor for troubleshooting. so while hookup is a breeze sometimes they must do that step if a wiring change is required in some external box. but you should be able to install the thing. but back to setup. i can't count how many know knowthing about pppoe. if you don't you may not be ready to install. bob
i can set up any acct information, preferences, etc - just need to know what dsl modem would be easiest and most compatible with my provider and my mac os.
if not, let them do it the first time. also if you didn't research pppoe. it shows you may have issues.
call the geeksquad and have them come to your home and take care of it and also get a tune-up and it,s all covered if you have a problem down the road. sometimes we just have to pay!
at my fl home, i've installed a pppoe (point-to-point protocol over ethernet) ethernet modem and separate wireless router on an at&t line successfully. i want to try it myself on this phone line from mickey mouse telecom, but i need to know what type wireless dsl modem works best with my mac os. this phone company charges $19.99 per month for dial-up so slow that the connection times out before pages load. its cost for the &quot;light&quot; (cheapest) dsl is $29.99, + $3.99 for modem rental. i'll only use it for 6 mos of my one year mandated contract, so instead of paying $33.98 a month for 12 months, i'll effectively be paying $67.96 per month actual usage. mickey mouse telecom has no provision for temporarily suspending service, as other companies do. i don't want to pay them 1 cent more than necessary!!
writing just a bit more tells me you shouldn't have any issue. i didn't know that you had setup this before or what country you were in. go for it. bob
thanx for everything, now... linksys has lousy support for mac, any clues about which manufacturer has decent support?
but you don't need it. for a setup with modem then a router you just have the router do the pppoe login.
