maybe i am just doing something slightly wrong, but i am trying to make it so that i can be on my laptop and print to the printer that is in my home office, and also have a shared folder that i can transfer files from my laptop over to onto my office pc. here is my setup: -motorola cable modem which goes into a -linksys wrt54gs router from this point i have the office pc plugged into 1 port and a vonage phone adaptor plugged into another port. i am able to get the internet access on both the office pc and on my laptop when i connect wirelessly. i also have 2 printers connected to the office pc. i figured it would as easy as choosign to share the printers from that machine, but i guess not. do i need a print server? do i need to send the cable modem into the comptuer first and then out to the router? (i don't want to do this becasue i use the router for qos) i would also like to be able to share a folder on the office pc so that if i work on a document on the laptop i can just copy it over to that machine for storage because i also backup everything on the office pc to off-site storage. any advice on my setup? thanks tucker
first you have to make sure that the firewall is either disabled or if it is enabled that you have all the available ports open to the machine. secondly, you have to make sure that they are part of the same workgroup. for some reason i've found that they have problems when you don't keep them in the same workgroup and do basic file sharing.
maybe i am not understanding this perfectly. you said check the firewall and the ports. are you saying on the router or on the computer and on which computer? is this to share the printer? also, what ports do i need to open? do i allow these in the router or in the firewall? (i use mcafee firewall by the way on the office pc and symantec on my laptop since it is a work pc). also, how do i make sure it is part of the same workgroup? if this is more info then this forum can provide, is there someplace i can go to get this info? thanks
the network setup wizard on all computers and choose &quot;enable file and printer sharing.&quot; this is also where you specify the name for your workgroup. hopefully all of your computers are running xp to simplify things? you will need to configure non microsoft firewalls.
will running thw windows network setup be a problem becasue the laptop is my work computer? i don't want to mess it up by adding a new &quot;workgroup&quot; but that could also be why the shared printing isn't working. advice?
sorry i neglected to understand that this is a work laptop and therefore a member of a different workgroup. but it's still simple to join your home workgroup when needed. hold down the windows logo key and press the pause/break key. on the system properties box select the computer name tab and click the change button. select the workgroup option and enter the name of the workgroup you want to join. you will have to restart the computer.
