i started with a 20gb hard drive, and just added a 120gb hard drive. everything is still on the 20gb. i use xp. where should i put files? should i keep xp on the 20gb and move all my data and programs to the 120gb? or vice versa? any ideas on this? one thing i will be doing is putting old hi8 tapes through my camcorder (via firewire) so i can convert them to dvd. i would assume i am best off transferring these to the 120gb as it is faster and larger. but should i move anything off my old slower 20gb hd; would my system performance increase by moving everything over to the new drive? oh, and how would i do any of this? thank you!!!
&quot;where should i put files?&quot; where you can find them. &quot;should i keep xp on the 20gb and move all my data and programs to the 120gb? or vice versa? any ideas on this?&quot; i just did something similar. i used ghost2002 to copy a system from one drive to another, removed the older slower drive as a backup and made the newer faster drive as the master and wher the os is and files are. much nicer and no big questions. &quot;one thing i will be doing is putting old hi8 tapes through my camcorder (via firewire) so i can convert them to dvd. i would assume i am best off transferring these to the 120gb as it is faster and larger.&quot; you'll answer this soon enough since for each 2 hour home movie (which is best limited to 1 hour, your choice), i see my temp workspace to be about 20 to 30 gb. this question will sort itself out as you will soon realise. &quot;but should i move anything off my old slower 20gb hd; would my system performance increase by moving everything over to the new drive?&quot; your choice. but what i did. &quot;oh, and how would i do any of this? &quot; i used ghost 2002. but the drive may have come with software and instructions to do this move. try that. bob
thanks for the quick and helpful answers, bob! i will move everything over to the new drive, and then make it the master. is there a need to change anything in bios, or do i just switch the jumpers around and let the system boot up? as far as transferring data, the new drive is a western digital and came with data lifeguard tools, which should do the trick, i believe. i will then use the old drive as my back-up drive. is it okay to just leave the old drive in as a slave, and back-up to that on occasion? or is there a chance that if the system crashes, both drives could be obliterated? and thanks for the tip about preferably limiting movie files to 1 hour. sorry to ask more questions on top of my questions! much appreciated!
&quot;i will move everything over to the new drive, and then make it the master. is there a need to change anything in bios, or do i just switch the jumpers around and let the system boot up?&quot; too dependent on the machine in question. the last time i did this, the bios settings were on auto and not even a jumper was moved because 80 conductor ide cables use the drives in cable select mode. &quot;as far as transferring data, the new drive is a western digital and came with data lifeguard tools, which should do the trick, i believe.&quot; i've used that. seems to work for most. &quot;i will then use the old drive as my back-up drive. is it okay to just leave the old drive in as a slave, and back-up to that on occasion? or is there a chance that if the system crashes, both drives could be obliterated?&quot; i removed the drive for various reasons. - the drive was smaller and slower and created too many questions about where to store files. - i didn't want to upgrade the power supply or worry about cooling issues. - yes. data on writeable devices is at risk during any disaster. bob and thanks for the tip about preferably limiting movie files to 1 hour.&quot;
