i have an amd x2 4400 in a thermaltake xaser iii v2000a aluminum case with an asus a8n-sli motherboard. i have an amd certified opteron/64/fx heatsink fan (it was inexpensive) and currently idle at a temp 40-47c. my warning goes off when it reaches 60.8c. when i play some games, such as call of duty 2, i reach the warning temp and i shut the comp off. would a better heatsink fan eliminate this and reduce idle temp? if so, which one do you recomend? this doesnt happen often and the case has 7 fans.
what's the ambient temp in the room where the pcs located ? re a better hs fans....lots of options ....take a look over at overclockers.com ...they've got reviews on lots of aftermarket products you can read about. you could also try removing the stock hs fan and using a more efficient thermal compound..something like arctic silver 5.
i live in a typical college apartment and its usually 72-75.
the stock hs fan, clean it up good and reinstall it using some arctic silver 5. they've got good info on how to apply it. if that doesn't do it...then i'd spring for the better hs fan combo to add to that mini-hovercraft. almost hard to understand how that cpu could be running hot with all those fans unless of course it wasn't sitting flush now. let me know how it works.
out of curiosity, what hsf did your 4400+ come with? the newer ones are being shipped with the hsf that come with the opteron processors - they're a 4 copper heatpipe design and there's an amd hologram logo/sticker on the top of the fan. those are quite good for a stock hsf (i was using one with my opteron 170) and you'd probably have to spend close to 50 bucks to exceed it's performance. if you have that, try re-seating it as vapcmd said, with special care not to put on too much or too little as5. if you don't have that hsf, i wholeheartedly recommend the zalman cpns9500 . with room temps in the same range as yours, 100% load (running 2 instances of fold@home) and my opteron overclocked to 270, my temps hover between 47 - 52 degrees c. idle, we're talking about 32. the link provided happens to be newegg, but if you look around, you may be able to get it for around 50 shipped.
i just took a look at your case, and just like my thermaltake, the zalman cooler would be blowing the air straight to your exhaust fans and out of the case.
i purchased the retail box 4400 with fan.
a buddy of mine told me about the zalman fatality. is it any better than the one linked to me?
different designs and i haven't seen any tests between the two on the same system. the 9500 is simply one of the very best air coolers out there as far as cpu temps go - see this comparison for more info. again, not only is it extremely efficient at cooling the cpu, but it blows all of that hot air directly out keeping your case temps lower. i'm sure that the cooler that you linked is great, too, but i would suspect that it falls a little short of the 9500's performance as far as cpu cooling goes. it may, however, keep some of your other components a little cooler because of fan orientation (blowing down on the motherboard). two things to consider, though - 1) it's very big in diameter - make sure it's not going to conflict with other components in your case, 2) you're paying an extra 20 bucks over the 7700 for an additional 400 rpms and the fata1ity name. for my money, i obviously felt the 9500 a better choice, although i'm certain that you're not going to be disappointed with either.
