hi all, i've recently bought a laptop and set up a wireless network at home. both computers connect smoothly, and the pc can see the laptop's shared folders, but the laptop can't see the pc's shared folders. any idea what might be wrong? both computers run xp, both have home networking enabled with the same workgroup name. my suspicion is on the firewalls: i have the laptop running norton's personal firewall, where i've set up the router address as a trusted computer. (but does that open me up to all internet traffic?) the pc is running windows firewall. file and printer sharing are excepted from the firewall, but i still can't see the laptop and don't see any other place to specify the workgroup or laptop to allow traffic. anyone have any ideas? i'm out of 'em. thanks - --beth
try access home pc from laptop using its \\ip\&lt;sharedfolder&gt; (type the shared folder you know) . i was also having same problem. i wasn't able to see homepc in the network neighbourhood then. i guess this is the way i resolved it before.
uninstall the network from laptop and resetup the network by using your xp cd. if not then uninstall the network completely from all the devices and install by the one xp cd in all divices.
is the pc xp home or xp pro? this is too much for me to get into here, but basically, you want to create an account for the laptop on your desktop pc. setup an account on the pc for the laptop, example: laptop give the account a password! setup a user account on the laptop called ''laptop'' and give it the same password as the account on the pc! from the pc you will need to give ''laptop'' permission to access the folders in question. that's all i can really get into online. if you need help, invite your local 7 year old over for milk and cookies.
is the pc xp home or xp pro? this is too much for me to get into here, but basically, you want to create an account for the laptop on your desktop pc. setup an account on the pc for the laptop, example: laptop give the account a password! setup a user account on the laptop called ''laptop'' and give it the same password as the account on the pc! from the pc you will need to give ''laptop'' permission to access the folders in question. that's all i can really get into online. if you need help, invite your local 7 year old over for milk and cookies.
remember; you have to enable file/print sharing on both the laptop and desktop in order to share both ways. if you only ran the network setup wizard on the laptop, your desktop is not setup properly for sharing.
