is there a formatter board in 3300c scanner? if so does this board control the color duplicating when scanning a photo.is there a site that would look at a photo problem i have with the scanned photo? thanks
my 3300c and 3400c died with a dead sensor unit. repair exceeded a new scanner (after shipping), so i have a new working scanner. i'll write &quot;most likely.&quot; if you want to post an image somewhere for the forum to look at, please do. bob
what would be the best way to scan and send photo for you to see?
i find the geocities/yahoo to be fairly painless. but let's be clear here, if the scanner fails on another machine, cost of repair (including shipping) exceeds the cost of a new scanner. parts outside of an external usb/parallel cable or a wall power supply are not obtainable. well, lamps are, but not much else. bottomline? try it on another machine? bob
my sister in law has a 3300c scanner,she has a new hp computer.she is showing the same problem that i'm getting.she has not used the scanner except for when she scanned the same photo that shows the problem.she doesn't scan photos becayse her printer is an old hp 500.and it does not print with any quality.
&quot;control the color duplicating&quot; this is about the boiled down version of your issue that i can read. let me make a few comments and then see what pops up. but first, with every post is this tip: &quot;tip: if you are asking for help to troubleshoot a computer-related problem, please be sure to include all the necessary information (ie: operating system, model number, hardware, software, etc) that will help others identify your problem for a speedy resolution.&quot; no notation from you about the color settings of the video card. there are a few that are unaware that to display photos on the screen with any quality, you really need to be far beyond the 16-color, 26-color and even 65-thousand color settings. the 3300c (when ours was working) did just fine and produced a number of good scans. while one could fault it for not being color-accurate, the truth is it's a consumer grade device and we can't get pantone accurate colors. add that most pc's displays are wildly inaccurate and some pictures look terrible. after using such things for some time, you get used to what's good and what indicates a problem. more words on your part or propping a scan up anywhere may reveal more. more words meaning sentences like &quot;i set the scanner to 600 dpi, 24 bit-color and saved it as a jpeg image&quot; reveals a lot about the process you are using. read your posts and you can't tell much. tell more and post an image somewhere. bob
