i have a computer i built. it has been operating fine for the past two years, however in the last eight months i have gone through 4 power supplies, all of them various brands and from 400 to 600 watt output. i have a 1.8 ghz athlon processor, 1.5 gig of memory an asus motherboard, a dvd writer and two 80 gig hard drives with a video and sound card on the pci slots. what happens is there is a loud pop and the power supply burns out. i took one apart and the fuse inside was blown but after resoldering another fuse in the power supply was still dead. this has happened four times now in the past seven or eight months. i have had the electric company check my power and they put a recorder on my line and there have been no voltage fluctuations or spikes. i just lost another power supply yesterday. would appreciate any help or ideas anyone has on this. thanks.
perhaps what you have is a load issue. plug&gt;&gt;&gt;bad caps&lt;&lt;&lt;into goggle.
thanks for your reply. i was thinking load issues too which is why i bumped up to the 600 watt power supplies but the one that went out yesterday blew when my computer was in hibernate so i don't think that's it. i also looked at the bad caps info. i don't see any of that on my board and don't have any of the symptoms they give either. according to my motherboard and temp monitoring program my voltages and temps are all well within safe range. i am mystified. thanks for your help.
a bad caps issue is also found on other devices. for a psu to go, it needs a reason. it appears you haven't found the real reason it went bad. i suggest you tear down the system and inspect it. a bad mounting on the mtrbd. and/or chaffed harness, etc. can be a cause. you didn't provide details on your system, but if the psu goes, then very possible a device like a cd drive, video card, excessive heat, etc. is faulty. you just can't trust *anything* until tested elsewhere. afterall, 4 psu going bad suggests that. of course, bad ac power is still a possible issue. a floating ground, poor connections, or reverse wiring can be a home issue. an ac line tester brought at radio smack can see if the wiring is ok. also, if not already a surge protector of decent quality can help. if you have one, understand it works usually only once when a true power hit/surge, thus look for a led type telltale showing its active not ac power present. alas, an electrician should be called to really check the home wiring for the pc outlet(s). good luck tada -----willy
