i have a vista pc and have attached a samsung ml-1740 (usb) laser printer to it. vista found the device, and installed drivers for it. it completed with no errors, and vista says it is ready for use. when i try and print to it, it fails to print with no real specific message. printing a test page from control panel, simply says &quot;test page failed to print. would you like to view the troubleshooter for assistance&quot;. i have deleted the printer, downloaded newest samsung drivers and installed again...still no go even though control panel says the printer is &quot;ready&quot;. any suggestions would be appreciated.
i find many pcs with new installs missing drivers and more. taking a page from the hp printer fiascoes, the usual is we have a firewall installed or a non-administrator account. bob
thanks for the quick response. after i submitted the original post, i tried installing an hp deskjet printer i had lying around. in response to your question, no i never actually did have a local printer attached to usb. so i installed the hp and it works perfectly. i was surprised actually, cause i thought it was a usb issue. the only thing that i can think of, is that i had this samsung printer on my old xp laptop and this vista pc was printing to it via workgroup sharing. maybe now that this same printer was moved locally, vista isn't seeing it as local...the only problem with this theory is the printer is detected and showing ready. if i remove the usb cable it shows offline too. so there is communications. also, i am running as administrator, and no firewalls in place. thanks again.
sorry for the prior typo. as i read your reply it sounds like the old failed printer issue. or if a network the old permissions, accounts issues that i think is covered by the it staff. bob
i am sorry, i don't understand your response. who are the &quot;it staff&quot; in this case? is there a posted document or something i can look up, on this forum? i do believe you are on the right track with the old permissions or accounts ideas, but can you be more specific on where i could look? thanks. tony
just to clarify, the printer is not networked at all. it is directly connected to the vista pc via usb. it was connected to an xp pc and networked and the vista pc printed to it via network. but now it is directly connected. thanks.
it could be as simple as. 1. the port is bad. on desktops, use the rear ports first. 2. the usb cable is bad. try another. i was under the impression that the network was in some office. offices must have an it staff. bob
the cable is fine...as i had mentioned i got another hp printer working fine with both the same cable and the same port (and others as well). the printer is good too....tested on another pc altogether. i am sure it is a vista problem, and i have the latest drivers from samsung.
vista on the support list. ouch.
