hi, i just bought a t6212, and wanted to upgrade the graphics card. i was thinking aboutthe ati x800xl. but anyways, will i have a problem using this card? the card i believe calls for a 420 watt power supply. does anyone know the power supply on the t6212 and if this would pose a problem?
that card plugs into a normal pci express slot on the motherboard. i don't think the power supply has anything to do with it. forget about what it &quot;calls for.&quot; computers don't use nearly as much power as they claim. a 300 watt supply is more than enough for any system. besides, one graphics card hardly makes a dent...
get the card and plug it in...if runs fine then no problem. however if playin a intensive game and computer restarts or sudden restarts happen for no apparent reason, consider getting a new power supply.
the emachine t6212 comes with a 300w power supply. the ati x800xl is a fine card. seaninwa in this theard installed a x899xl and didn't mention upgrading the ps:  someone else in that thread, rickgut2004, installed a 450w power supply with his t6212. if you have problems, then of course increase the ps.
graphics card is bascially just one little chip. with no moving parts, unlike a harddisk, how much power would it really consume? i've heard of people using larger powersources, but only for these really weird servers with dozens of harddisk arrays connected to one machine. 300w comes standard. how much more do you need?
it depends on the power supply. some are weak (low cost ones) even at 450w and can't supply a continuous amount to handle the additional stuff. when a factory puts out a computer they try to match the power supply for what they have installed at the time of delivery. so, if you start adding stuff like high end video cards and other things then that particular ps may not pass the muster. some reading material:
oh yeah? and so what drives the fan on this? .
a fan is a fan, how much power would that consume? ^_^
just a little more than this --&gt; graphics card is bascially just one little chip. with no moving parts .
