hi i am going to build a new computer for gaming. i.e. crysis, bioshock etc. i am wondering what would perform better? intel core 2 duo e6750 & asus p5n32-e sli plus 775 pci-e nvidia 650i or amd x2 dual core am2 athlon 64 4600 & asus m2n-sli deluxe skt am2 if its too hard to tell w/o tests dw.
over at  for most the intel core 2 duo will be the winner (for today.) bob
thanks. i saw a bit of tomshardware on youtube but all of the stuff was like 5 years old p4!
he has the core 2 duo and x2 amd results too. since the c2d wins today i'll stop here. bob
intel is an industry leader. amd is nothing but cheaper copied intel knockoffs adn i say that with complete honestly and certainty. intel's performance benchamrks say everything you need to hear. as for a specific processor - given the selection i would choose the core2duo however if you really want the best processor available i would go with the new core 2 extreme. this processor is unique in that it has 4 core ( different the the current standard of 2) which function as mini engine/processor. infact crysis has be optimized for use on the core2extreme(c2e) chip, which means that crysis was designed/coded to work better on the specific chip. crysis is going to be a sick agme - nowhere else has there been such a high multi-threaded game with advance enemy ai!!! yes - the enemy becomes smarter base on your playing and processor ability!!! good luck an happy building... fyi the processor is the heart, mind, lungs and nerves of the computer so try to invest in the best on you can buy!!!!
thanks. i will try to afford a c2e but its like 500 (im english!) and thats quite alot of money! for me anyway considering im only 13! but thanks again.
i have a nice core duo 2.0 ghz laptop. it's fine. no 3d games since it has only the 950 gma solution but for a desktop you can go with dual core pentiums and get quite the bang for the buck. bob
monopoly. we'd have less cpu development and much higher prices. it wasn't long ago that amd was in the driver's seat. in this case, it's clear competition benefits consumers and end users. keeps the mfgs on their toes. vapcmd
this is true however let us not forget other competitiors like ibm and via technologies that also make processors and have been way before amd's time. yes a competitve marketplace breeds innovation at lower prices yet it also derails research & developement through creating a resource shift to marketing which is typically becomes half of cost of the product. in addition, intel didn't need competition to drive its innovation as it was already dedicated to exponential improvements through its commitment to moore's law. a mere 25 percent marketshare consisting of niche segments (ie. gamers) is hardly a driverseat as much as a stowaway.
