my lexmark x7170 printer prints extra black vertical bars when i copy or print anything. i first noticed this when i was attempting to print a page from the internet. i thought it might have been grayed out areas from the internet site. then i copied the page to word and printed. the same bars showed up. then i put a document on the scanner and copied. the bars continue to appear. i had the black cartridge refiled before this happened. could this be the culprit?
if you've been around the usual service counters you find consumers that can't use a new cart since it costs more than a new printer. and printers over 2 years old with rare exception are never serviced but tossed and replaced. the x7170 looks to be that old. bob
i didn't want to buy another cartridge without being pretty sure the old refilled cartridge was the problem. i know this is an older printer but it has been working great until lately. i will buy another cartridge and hopefully this will solve my problem.
it could be the cartridge but it could also be traces of ink on the rollers, in that case you'd get some roller cleaning sheets, available at most box stores. a mr. proffitt stated, this is a pretty old printer, if a cartridge or cleaning sheets don't resolve the issue, time to replace.
i appreciate your offered suggestion that the rollers may need to be cleaned however the lines i see are definitely printed, not smudges. they are similar to bar codes.
that having been said, have you tried uninstalling and reinstalling the printer software. you didn't mention anything about your system, os etc. i'd reinstall from scratch and also take a look at lexmark's site for upgrades/updates.
does it work the same on other pcs or even the &quot;self test&quot;?
i am still running windows xp home. the first thing i did was to uninstall and reinstall the drivers. the lexmark site provided me with no information on my printer.
i have not connected my printer to another computer. the problem was there when i printed a print head alignment page. i am assuming that would be like a self test. the problem is also there when i make a copy. i am convinced the problem is in the refiled printer cartridge.
and not the pc.
that, too, is part of my problem. i don't have another pc to connect the printer to. when it prints the problem while making a direct copy and from the head alignment it convinces me the problem is in the cartridge.
but when i wrote the printer, a cartridge is part of the printer however i've seen such things and only those new to the repair counter would know it's the cart. but worth changing as it's cheap. bob
evidently this unit has been problematic, there seem to be some fixes that lexmark offers, driver fixes, etc. typically a cartridge shouldn't create garbling, i'm still software suspicious.
they see it on a copy without using a pc so that's a sign. not a good one.
yuppers, toast city...unless, and i doubt, it is simply the cartridge.
reply to the top. yes, i know it's not threaded but it's how this buggy works.
