when trying to connect from my laptop to the network we set up on our d-link router i get an error message that says &quot;windows was unable to find a certificate to log you on to the network [ssid]&quot; my desktop that connects wirelessly and my roommates laptop do not experience this issue. i've searched the web and found various solutions like unchecking the certificate in the ssid's properties and such. the problem is though that in my list of wireless clients, the network does not show up as a wpa-psk connection when it is. it shows the network and says (wpa) on my desktop, but this one has it configured as an open wep connection. if i go to the advance settings and try to manually enter it as a wpa and enter the password, it just wont connect. i am completely stumped as to why this wont work. the internet works when i plug the laptop directly into the router, and when i remove security settings for the router. thing is... i live in a heavily populated college area where everyone is trying to steal peoples' internet so i can't leave it unprotected. any suggestions would be appreciated, i feel like i've tried everything at this point. (reinstalling my wireless network adapter software as well) thanks in advance
oops, sorry. it appears the details are missing.
sorry that was dumb of me it's a d-link dir-616 router i'm running windows xp on the affected laptop and the network adapter is a d-link dwl-g630 also this computer and network adapter both work fine if trying to connect to any other wireless network so it's not like faulty hardware is an issue.
it looks like you set it up for a radius server. but i can't tell yet. focus on the router and be sure the router firmware is the latest since i've seen this error where some machines connect and some don't. the poor owner couldn't accept it was out of date firmware so they ended up paying 2 companies to come look. the second one they let change the firmware. they wanted a refund from us. we said no. bob
i don't really know what that (router firmware) means or how to figure that out... we did just get the router though. i saw the settings on my router for the wpa enterprise thing that said it uses a radius, but that was not the option we selected. also how would that explain the reason my desktop connects wirelessly and it doesn't support the certificate settings
it's busted for sure. sorry but you may have to catch up on the wifi terminology and that &quot;new&quot; units ship with outdated firmware to solve this one. again, been that, done that and people are very confused about why it works on one machine but not the other and to them it looks like magic when i update the firmware, set it up and it works. don't fret about it, people are making good money on this situation. bob
how do i go about updating the firmware then? i've never learned any of this stuff because i've never had a problem connecting before ever but i feel confident that i can do it... i'm definitely frustrated and determined.
1. you've set it up our way at  which includes updating the router. 2. you found google.com and what others had to say about that message. if so, it's dead and needs to be seen by someone first hand. bob
why would i not set up a router with the same name as your router (you elected to not share router details such as your ssid, firmware version, etc.) so i could confound and confuse that person and maybe get them off the air? i'd like to help but your post details are weak. bob
i didn't know anything about a firmware version until now. my ssid is three's company and the firmware version is 2.3
with some drivers. now go back to a simple 6 to 8 letter name with just alpha characters. it's not a bug you find everyday.  notes a 2.23 but no 2.3. i'd install their latest at 2.24 to make sure you have all the fixes they give us. i'll use the manual from ftp://ftp.dlink.com/gateway/dir615_revb/manual/dir615_revb_manual_220.zip see page 76. is this the setting you used? bob
i tried earlier plugging my laptop directly into the router and attempting to update the firmware. i downloaded the latest version 2.24 and when i attempted to open the file on the router page to load the new firmware version, it didn't work and told me that the version i was attempting to upload may be corrupt and that the gateway would not be updated. i will attempt to change the ssid to something more simple.
if downloads are showing up corrupt i'd be scanning that machine for: a) download accelerators. b) limewire. c) p2p programs. d) winsock hijackers (see our spyware forum) and other things. good hunting. bob
