in another post (sorry i forget where) someone said that is was not a good idea to use packet writing. i rely on directcd for backing up critical files to cd. it has always been quirky and i often have trouble reading the disks on other computers but i have finally gotten it to work smoothly on the two computers that are most important to me (home and work). am i making a mistake here? what is the best way to back up to cd? thanks.
the long thread covered many aspects of what is udf or packet writing. for some, it's less than reliable. and if it is reliable all i have ever needed to do is to wait for it to eventually hiccup for those that never had an issue. which is why i simply erase a cdrw (now dvdrw), record what i want and treat it like a cdr or dvdr... bob
why do you say &quot;not a dvdrw&quot;? i am planning to buy a new notebook soon and hope to use the dvdrw for storage. is this a bad idea?
but not with any incd/directcd package. i don't trust it. this is not to write it doesn't work, but in my experience it works about 99.9% of the time. which is not good enough. bob
so how do you use your dvdrw? for critical backups (my critical office files) do you think this is your best option on a daily basis? thanks
i collect my backup in a directory, erase the dvdrw, then record my files to it. bob
.......and you find that they are reliably read on other computers? what software are you using?
&quot;.and you find that they are reliably read on other computers? what software are you using?&quot; you didn't write about use with other computers. that issue pans incd/directcd and is its biggest weakness. when i use the simple erase and record (as if it's a cdr or dvdr), then most other machines see if as i need it to be. that's a new question about compatibility issues with incd/directcd. the answer is that you get to test for such. i don't have to test since i do not use incd/directcd or such. ---------------------- today i use nero, cdburnerxp, roxio, easy cd, and k3b to create my cd and dvds. for video work i have other titles i use, but that was not the topic. bob
