okay, i learned the hard way... my hard drive failed in my dell inspiron laptop recently. it was still under warranty, and i had backed up all of my necessary files to a flash drive, so i was able to reinstall everything rather easily once the new hd was installed. but... i would feel better if i permanently stored my digital photos and my husband's business info on an external hd (i also make photo storage cd's &quot;just in case&quot;. i plan to regularly, once a week or so, store all new files (on both the laptop and the desktop computers) on the external hd. then i will unplug it and put it away until needed the next time. does this sound like what i should be doing? what i dread most about making the decision to do this is the external hard drive failing, as i have read about. obviously i don't know a lot about this subject, and that's why i am turning to the cnet forums once again. so tell me, you pool of knowledgeable people, is this the best way to permanently store data and photos (external hard drive, and photos also on cd, and note that neither of my computers will write to dvd)? also, what are the most reliable brands of external hard drives? i see a lot of positive reviews about seagate and western digital. thank you all so much, in advance, for your help.
&quot;store all new files (on both the laptop and the desktop computers) on the external hd. then i will unplug it and put it away until needed the next time. does this sound like what i should be doing?&quot; that's a fine copy but is not &quot;backup.&quot; here's why. since said unit has no write protect switch what stops the virus, trojan that caused you to go get your copy to not wipe out that external hard disk? this is a fine first step in backup but read this forum where people do this then discover after recovering the laptop, said laptop couldn't read the external due to a long list of reasons discussed in this forum. it's all here for you to look over. -&gt; add one more copy and you may have a backup. that is, the stuff you can't lose on dvdr. it's cheap insurance that the pictures you can't lose don't get lost. bob
quite frankly nothing is safe in this pc world. you have to realize that the possibility always exists of a failure is around the bend. your best option is to store on dvds or cds and make at least 2 copies of the same data/material/files you deem precious. you can then use any ext. hd you like and no, i wouldn't recommend any brand because they all have proven to come-up with some issue sooner or later. the most important part is &quot;handling&quot; of the ext. hd, treat it like eggs, regardless of any robust features. flash drives have gotten bigger, so you can store those &quot;real precious files&quot; as yet another storage area, but only within a time frame you feel comfortable with and then burn to dvd/cd -or- not and just fill it and get another one. do, what makes you get into the habit of back-up and ease of storage. remember, if anyhing multiple copies of your data and prove it works, retrieve/verify data. too often users forget this important step and stumble when their copies aren't working. tada -----willy
when i realized, last month, that the hard drive on my laptop may have been on its way out i purchased an 8gb flash drive and transferred all of my file to it. i was surprised at how much capacity was remaining, so i transferred all of the desktop files to it, and there's still plenty of &quot;room&quot; remaining. i didn't know that transferring back to my computer from the external hard drive may be problematic, and i thank you very much for this information. basically, we have files for my husband's business which consists of mostly word and pdf documents and jpeg and tif image files. and we have digital photo files for mostly personal, but some business, use. am i correct in assuming that i should, instead of investing in an external hard drive, keep using the flash drive as a primary backup and periodically transfer those files to a dvd for permanent storage?
as inexpensive as the cd-dvd burners are in desktop pcs...there's no reason in the world not to have one ... $25 to $40. check'em out at your favorite pc store or on line vendor. dvd media (4.7gb) is inexpensive too. vapcmd
dvd what i seem to be understanding from your replies is that permanent storage should be on dvd or cd and that i should make 2 copies. question 1- is there a significant difference between cd's and dvd's? since my older equipment has a cd writer but not a dvd writer, am i getting comparable quality by using a cd for back up instead of a dvd? exactly why should i purchase a new dvd writer, are dvd's that much better and why? question #2-it seems from the comments that as long as i backup frequently on cd/dvd, for my purposes an external hard drive would be unnecessary. based on the comments concerning problems with the external hd, it is my understanding that you cannot rewrite files from the external hd to my computers , and so i probably would not buy one. do you see any reason why i should have one? instead, i would plan to continually transfer files to the flash drive until i permanently transfer them to the cd/dvd. thank you so much for (continuing) to help me with this.
- depending on the media (disc type) and method of burning, cds and dvds can be considered permanent storage in contrast to hard disk drives which use magnetic media.. 1 or 2 copies ?? it depends on how important the data is and how/where you're storing the copies. having 1 copy at home and perhaps 1 copy at your place of business, safety deposit box, or other location reduces the chance of losing the data in the event of flood fire or natural disaster. once you've made a copy of the crtical, can-afford-to-lose data, then subsequent backup could consist of old data changed and new data. this could reduce the backup volume from dvds to a cd. question 1- is there a significant difference between cd's and dvd's? since my older equipment has a cd writer but not a dvd writer, am i getting comparable quality by using a cd for back up instead of a dvd? exactly why should i purchase a new dvd writer, are dvd's that much better and why? cds vs dvds...they're essentially the same except dvds hold 7 to 12 times more data per disc. dvds hold 4.7gbs of data whereas dual layer dvds hold 8.5gbs. question #2-it seems from the comments that as long as i backup frequently on cd/dvd, for my purposes an external hard drive would be unnecessary. based on the comments concerning problems with the external hd, it is my understanding that you cannot rewrite files from the external hd to my computers , and so i probably would not buy one. do you see any reason why i should have one? instead, i would plan to continually transfer files to the flash drive until i permanently transfer them to the cd/dvd. for your purpose, perhaps the better purchase would be an external cd-dl/dvd burner...it could used to backup the laptop or the desktop. vapcmd
i 'backup' to an external hd and a flash drive. i also make imaging backups too-best way! good luck! :&gt;)
after making a backup, store it in a safe place, preferably off-site. send your dvd backup to a relative, or keep it in a safe-deposit box at your bank. this will keep it safe from fire or theft. i would also reccomend getting a safe, for your backups and important papers. be sure to bolt it to the floor, and do not have the combination written down anywhere near the safe. a decent-sized safe can be bought at walmart for 100$, and weighs 100 pounds. the walmart safe is mainly for protection against fire, but is also reasonably safe against burglars.
for your help-- these forum is such a wonderful resource!
