i've been going bonkers trying to find a program that would allow me to transfer my 9mm tapes on my camcorder, and record them on to my harddrive. i'm using a sony vaio and it has the composite cables. i used to use the program that came iwth the computer called giga pocket, but recently the computer completely crashed and i had to reformat using a windows xp disk. so here i am, unable to find giga pocket or any program that can also be used in the same manner. any help or suggestions from another fellow human being will be greatly appreciated.
notes where to download the driver. but if you didn't use the restore cds you may have to start over with the right cds. bob
i don' have any cds, which is why i'm stuck. i've came across the drivers and they don't do anything unless i have the program installed. giga pocket is a dead end, unless i find a torrent which i can't find. i just need an alternative program that can do the same thing giga pocket does, which is have the program record from the av/component cables in my video card onto the desktop.
try this one. i only has one seed so i don't know if it will work -good luck.
hah, i've tried this, it got up to 4 percent and then all the peers dropped to 0 and now nothing connects
i'll try downloading it for you. it's at 11% right now downloading at 50kbp/s.
you are downloading from a seeder?
there are an even number of seeds and peers (4) i am currently at 48%.
you know...i opened up the torrent again...and i'm connected to one peer which has 61.7% completed which is probably you. i'm at 44.7 percent. i wonder why that is...i hope it doesn't stop or turn blue
that's me since i'm at 63% now. i'll keeping seeding until you get it.
i don't like saying thank you because i think humans should just always do nice things for other humans. majority of us don't, but you are one of the few that actually does exist. i think. but thanks a **** load, i've been working on this for the past 7 hours
you have no idea how happy you've made me. i was just starting to resort to alcohol to calm myself down. take care
nothing makes me happier then when i'm helping someone else. i hope you got all of it, my client stopped seeding. take care mate.
sony is your primary support, why not contact them for proper cd replacements(some cost), etc.. using torrent if possible and could end in yet another issue. no matter how you finally get your system up and running at 100%, be sure to backup and/or create recovery cds for an easier recovery next time. tada -----willy
