i am a victim of sporadic system instability, ranging from blue screens, to desktop hangs to file system/windows corruption. i'll fix one thing, and everything will be fine for weeks to months, and then some other problem arises. i think it's something to do with the ide bus, because sometimes an ide device won't be detected during boot, or post won't get beyond &quot;detecting ide devices&quot;. i've run diagnostics on memory and disk drives, replaced a disc drive (i try to run 2 western digital 200 gb caviar drives and a seagate 200gb barracuda) and upgraded bios on everything i could), just installed a new mobo (asus a8n5x), went to an atx case with 3 fans, and just today i got a blue screen &quot;a process or thread crucial to system operation has unexpectedly exited&quot; when i tried to add the wd drive to a simplified seagate/hp 840i dvd writer ide chain. i'm plunking down big $$ to get an antec 550w powersupply today. has anyone ever heard of a defective ide device ruining another ide device? am i asking for trouble with 4 ide devices in my box? - if so, will replacing one ide drive with a sata relieve the strain?
you never gave a good description of the machine but people who max out drives and such do have these issues. then again you could have the wrong ide cable. bob
currently i have a 420w power supply. windows xp pro, 2gb of crucial memory. i've been swapping cables in and out. some times it seems to fix the problems, but it never &quot;stays fixed&quot;. my last hope is a new 550w ps.
there's no description of the machine, the drives, drive age, details about the os install etc... i had this one owner that was a p2p user. they lost it all weekly for about a year until we figured that out. bob
it's definitely a mongrel machine, upgraded on a component by component basis as desired/required. the western digital wd2000jb drives are one year old, and two years old respectively. today it's a fresh xp pro install, with all microsoft updates applied. amd a64 x2 4400+ processor and a evga geforce 6200 video card. weekly, huh? i guess i should consider myself lucky..
about motherboard drivers. version please.
the computer in question is in detention in my closet until the new power supply arrives, i'll have to get back to you on that. thanks for your help thus far, though.
thanks for your help thus far, bob. but since i swapped in the new power supply, things have been running as smooth as a gravy sandwich. but, if it follows the pattern, things will go belly up in a month or two... the good news is, i can't think of anything else to replace! thanks again for your prompt responses!
as power supplies age they can't deliver as many watts. so when i replace a supply i add more watts. i almost bet you'll be fine for awhile. bob
too large a load on the psu often creates a variety of symptoms ...erratic drives, spontaneous reboots, etc,. etc., shame you didn't ask earlier before you replaced all the other stuff. vapcmd
sobering information. still, i hope my new 520w unit will be error-free for its 6-year warranty period. further reason to hold off on getting that usb coffee cup warmer i read about.. thanks.
