i've been troubleshooting a friend's computer on a wireless network, but i have been perplexed by some strange difficulties. the wireless care detects the routers signal with signal strength around 60%. both the router and wireless card are netgear equipment and everything thing suggests that the connection should work fine but it doesn't. this particular network is open (i.e., it has no security enabled) and the wireless card's wireless assistant indicates there is no problem connecting however the assistant also indicates the assigned ip is nowhere near what it should be. the ip should be 192.168.0.3 however the ip it says was assigned is something like 169.254.0.20. ipconfig indicates that same ip. there are no other networks detected by the card and the signal strength is pretty steady. my friend has indicated that the connection worked fine last week. i already tried rebooting the router several times but that had no effect. i am puzzled...is there something wrong with the wireless card or perhaps its driver or is it something else? oh and the computer is running on windows me. anyone have any helpful advice. thanks
is not valid for internet access. open winipcfg from start/run and try releasing then renewing the ip for the network card in question. the underlying issue may be spyware/viral in nature. if so try safe mode with networking and run the usual online scanners to clean off the machine.
yeah my friend's machine would not renew the ip stating that it was unable to contact the dhcp server. (this was over a wireless network card). i tried the same thing on the internal network card and it gave me an ip of 0.0.0.0 and would not renew the ip for the same reason as stated above. i think she has big problems...any advice?
you could try re-installing the tcp/ip protocol, and microsoft client, but that's not going to help if you have spyware or a virus. you could download stinger:  and it fits on a floppy, since you don't seem to be able to get to the internet. does the computer have any antivirus software running? are the signatures current? any antispyware software?
hi, i have had similiar problem with my pc but mine is hard wired connecting with a netgear router.i tried everything you can think of,new nic,replaced cables,anti virus/spyware scans in safe mode, including re-installing the op system xp pro and after 6 months and with help from other guys.i gave up and tried a usb to rj45 adapter and i am online no problem all for the sake of 14 .wished i had tried it earlier.so i would recommend borrowing a wireless usb adapter first to try it. good luck.
its esay to set up but no one is interested.go here and user opinion at newegg
hi, i tried posting a reply twice with no luck so hopefully this one is not duplicating my previous...i have a netgear at home (with three computers linked to it), but recently i had to hook up a linksys to a friend computer so their laptop could operate wireless, etc, eytc...i had a similair problem to yours and had to go to my internet page, type in 192.168.1.1 and access the router home page...from their i had to click on mac address clone (not sure if this would be the same with netgear or not) and noticed mac address was &quot;disabled&quot;...once i enabled it, all ip address problems were self corrected within seconds...not sure if this will be the answer to yours but i certainly would look into it...
