i have an extremely annoying delay of 30 seconds following the display of the windows xp boot screen. system completes post fine, displays the graphic then chills for half a minute. there is no disk or processor activity (checked using bootvis). also played with various bios settings and boot.ini params, however it always appears to pause for 30 before the disk starts the &quot;propper&quot; boot? asus a7n8x d mobo, amd 2200, maxtor sata disk. anyone with a suggestion?
i found one machine that when the bios was set to boot from cd first... it delayed for about that long. to speed it up, we set it to boot from the hard disk. lucky for us the bios has a boot from menu that pops up if you press some key so we don't need to set the bios to boot from cd if that's required. bob
are you using any usb external hard drives? they can sometimes cause a delay such as this. sounds like a windows problem.
thanks for the suggestion .... checked the bios and boot order is floppy&gt;scsi (system disk)&gt;hdd. tried scsi&gt;floppy&gt;hdd and scsi&gt;scsi&gt;scsi no change. ;-(
hmmm ... no external disks and yes ... definately a windows problem! thanks, you did open another avenue of investigation, it's a sata system disk and has a raid controller associated (although it's not raided) and there is an error with xmasscsi in the event log on startup. this does seem to occur after the 30 second delay in the startup sequence of events but is worth some experimentation i guess. oh for another 30 seconds! thanks again.
i'm having a similar problem. after the post info leaves and the win logo comes up, i get a 30 sec. flashing cursor. i believe mine is also related to a raid (asus a8v) problem; even though i'm not using sata ot raid. like old age, i don't like it but i'm learning to live with it. check back to this post occasionally 'cause if i find a fix for my problem, i'll post it here.
scsi takes a long time to do it's controller thing. you've found out why you get the delay. if you want a faster boot, remove the scsi and use some ide drive. bob
