hi, i bought a new custom computer and everything was going well, until after 1 hour of usage(after instaling windows and a few programs) the computer shuts down, and now i can't even turn it on. the motherboard led stays on but i can t get a post or a fan spining. please help pc specs: i5-3570k, asus p8z77-v,corsair 8 gb 1600 mhz ram, ocz 700w, seagate barracuda es 750 gb
time to call them and ask what they want to do to fix it. it's new, custom so they should be used to such calls. bob
by custom i mean i bought it by pieces and build it myself.
good to know. now it's the old call the suppliers up and ask what they want back. you do take a bit of risk about such building your own machine but all the parts should be in warranty so it's a pain but you are now in the rma and swap parts till it works again phase. bob
the problem is most of the parts form my &quot;new&quot; pc are used including the motherboard and psu... so if it comes to that i will have a harder time trying to get my money back. just my luck...
your top post lead with it being new. now it's not new but something else. it's pretty hard to diagnose as it is but when dealing with dead computers the common advice remains the same. if in warranty, use the warranty. if out of warranty you have to decide if you are going to be a pc repair tech. there are millions of posts about fixing a dead pc. basically you swap out the most suspect part. if you can't tell which part then you use the old advice of &quot;replace the cheapest part first.&quot; bob
now that we've heard more about this computer, did you happen to use an old case? if so, take out the motherboard and remove all and i do mean all standoffs that we use to mount the motherboard. now only install the ones that are needed. but first, build the pc on a chunk of cardboard. if it works there it could be that old issue with an extra standoff. i've lost count of folk that tell me it can't be this because it worked. hopefully you've been around long enough to guess why this matters. bob
since this is a build of gathered used and/or some new, you need to rebuild again. as stated to you, its best to remove and build on some cardboard and check operations that way. use a household fan to cool it as added cooling. if it works for some extended period, like in hrs. then you then need to check/inspect the case as mentioned. note where standoffs are, etc. and return mtbd. alone to case. tighten screws but don't over do it and make some are grounded if plastic standoffs are used as well. understand what psu you have, is it single or dual rail type. if dual, balance the load requirements better or replace entirely. build the pc as basic as possibel and check results to see how it operates. also, just where did it fail after 1hr. how did it fail, shutdown, froze, didn't respond, still loading s/w, maybe the last action is the culprit. don't do any oc'ing if so done, return to defaults. have you updated the bios yet before any major installs, etc.? was the parts tested elsewhere or do you know its history, etc.. if you got a good deal at the time, you may now know why, it was an iffy part. in other words don't take things for granted, you now have to sort things out and test results. last, did you apply heatsink paste correctly on cpu as that can be a sign it failed when it got to be too much heat or pushed into a upper heat range. further, do all fans or cooling work as intended? you need to know your &quot;airflow&quot; as some operations may conflict. it may already bee too late if due to heat stress the weakest link finally gave in and failed. one thing i have the habit of doing is swapping the psu out, if during power-on the cpu fan just twitches or spins for a moment, then nothing. if it isn't the psu then that leaves the mtrbd., and any issues arising from operation, not good. so recheck your work as best as possible. tada -----willy
thank you for the post, but i think the mobo is dead, i have tried everything you said and nothing, no post no fan spin no nothing, just a single green power led. when i tried to reset bios, the bios led started flickering not blinking. i contacted the seller and he said he would refund.
when i was testing the compouter i wasnt even using a case, the mobo was on top of a anti static bag on top of a box, so that was not the issue.
