hi,i brought a motherboard ,put it in pluged in everthing i needed to ,but the only thing that happens is the little green light on the motherboard comes on , i asked the guy who i brought the motherboard off,he told me i need to turn the cpu switch to on,what i want to know is were is it ? hope you can help me
but have him show you this switch and the motherboard and all working. else just ask for your money back. bob
as the &quot;cpu&quot;. perhaps he means the power button. you said you plugged everything in. do you remember wiring the front panel connections part of the motherboard? did you double check power switch connection? the green light means you have the 5v power to latch the power supply to &quot;on&quot; but it doesn't start the computer.
yes i did wire up the power buttons etc but still nothing happens i even got the guy on the phone ( the man who i brought the motherboard off) and we checked everything together.still nothing
with system off, do... find the frt. panel on/off button and its wire harness. follow that wiring to the mtrbd. where it connects. disconnect and then momentarily short those pins and it should try to start. if it doesn't you got another problem. if it does start, you got a bad wiring or switch. be sure, you locate proper on/off wiring. some users confuse on/off(power) with remote power(any other power label) or wake-up connections if so labeled. tada -----willy
you can try to start the ps from the mb connector as well. if you have a dvm, you can see if the voltages are there. i've seen a number of power supplies that show evidence of an attempt to start but shut down immediately. watch the ps fan carefully when you try to power up the pc. if it twitches and stops, this means it attempted to start but shut down do to detecting a load problem. this is generally a bad power supply or something it's connected to. switching power supplies are tricky to troubleshoot as they also don't like to start when not connected to a load. if you can connect the ps to another mb and the ps starts ok, this usually rules it out as the problem. it doesn't rule it out as possibly being of insufficient power to operate what it's connected to. i'd remove all connections to the ps but the mb. this can also include ram and cpu if you wish. if the ps starts ok as evidenced by it's fan continuing to run when it hasn't before, this makes the mb suspect. it's also not uncommon to have standoffs under a mb causing short circuits if you have it in the case. you can check this by putting the mb on a table and just connecting things outside the box. good luck.
