i have a p4 2ghz, 2.5gb ram, pny geforce 8600 gt (w/ 256mb ram), and i am using a 32&quot; hdtv. i bought the card when i upgraded my old pc to some new super pc about a year ago. about 5 months ago i noticed that when i play games like crysis, hl2, age of conan, left 4 dead, dead space, and day of defeat: source. i have been monitoring the temp of the video card and it idles at about 56-58c and when under high stress it goes up to 80. pny tech support said that the card normal operating temp is up to 100c. i tested my ram with memtest over 6 hours straight and it found 0 errors. i used the nvidia ntune stress test and it finds no errors, but i don't know if that counts for anything. anyone have any ideas what is causing the lines? btw i do get some artifacting also. thanks.
type 8600 defective at google?
thanks for your quick response. when i type that in i find articles on defective 8600m, the mobile cards, no mention of the 8600 gt. didn't help, but thank you for your response.
the 8400 and 8600 on pcie cards are dying. i'd make the call and see if they'll replace yours sooner than later.
if you registered the card with pny, you have a 3 year warranty and can rma it to them (  ). otherwise, start shopping for a new card.
what do you think it is? could it be the onboard ram? should i get another pny card, ive never had problems with any other their other products.
nothing remarkable but the issue was not their making. i'm unsure why some need the board to do more than what you reported to motivate them to get it replaced. at least i know the issue and can get it changed out before this company goes under. bob
i started the rma form. i keep boxes and receipts for everything i own for about 6 months after i buy an item. so i have thrown away the receipt and the box, i believe i do have it registered, but no way to show this fact, because i can't get anyone on the phone at pny's offices to corroborate this. long story shorter, i can't return it for rma. guess i will have to buy a new one and take the lesson learned.
is a lot of denials all around as the body count keeps rising. for now, for today any 8400, 8600 m or not is an avoid and in my opinion &quot;no sale.&quot; bob
yea, i did finally get a hold of someone over there that wanted to help me figure out what is happening, he said since i ran the ntune stress test and it passed fine that it is likely nothing at all wrong with the card. he suggested taking a spare hdd and loading windows, the drivers, and one game and try it taht way to rule out some software (like norton) isnt the root of the issue. i'll going to work on that later on, let you know what is happening. thanks again
