hey guys. i just got an hp pavilion a1010n pc bundle. it has an 340 intel celeron d processor (2.93ghz), 512 pc2700 ddr sdram memory. 160gb 7200rpm ultra dma hard driveand dvd+-rw / cd-rw. my &quot;know it all&quot; brother in law fried the processor i had bought from ebay because he did not do what ray had suggested to do and what i told him he had to do. and i got so mad that i just decided to get a new pc/laptop for now. so since i couldn't see the laptop i wanted before buying it (they didn't have it in the store, only online, and the other one wasn't put out on display), i went for the pc at best buy. i'm still going to fix my old pc and maybe sell it or just keep it as a back up. (any other suggestions?) after the rebates, i'll be paying only $540 plus tax. i think it's a good deal compared to what my old presario ended up costing 4 years ago. but i will like your opinion, like always, cause you guys are the experts! have a great day! ylc
we have a few 2.0 ghz celerons that do just fine for just about all use except &quot;games&quot;. some of the older games are fine, but the newer games seem to be a little strained or just do not perform. that model is a bargain and isn't a slug compared to machines just a few years ago. even 256m is passable for everyday use. as long as you don't want to play the latest games, you should be fine. bob
i really don't buy games to play on the pc. i only play ocassionally the ones online. thank you for your input!
during the day when i'm not home for more than 4 hours, is it ok for it to leave it on standby mode or should i just shut off my pc? always curious about that... ylc
there's a long discussion about that and i'll lock this dicussion if need be to prevent forum bloat. &quot;for 500+ opinions on the subject.. ...see the link below for lots of information about whether to turn off or not...: cnet computer off or on link  i turn all our computers off at night, if nothing more than to save power and dust accumulation. the rest is up to you. hope this helps. grif &quot;
emachines t6212 would be 64 including tax and it would last longer with a pci-express and athlon 64.
i know that emachines are cheaper, but that's because they are crap. i will never buy an emachine, i've heard too many bad experiences from people who've owned them. i love my pc and i'm glad i got a great deal! thanks anyways.
but i guess i turning it off will be better. the only &quot;good&quot; reason mentioned there is that if you leave it on you don't have to wait for it to start up... that's just lazyness and mine's fast so... i'll turn it off thanks.
i am not a power user. any powerful conmputers that i build are for someone else. one of mine is a 1996 pii 333. i have tried to defrag it twice in that time and never noticed one iota of difference, so i don't do all the good things that everyone say that just must be done. i never run any test programs to time things or any such things, so my opinion re that type of thing is useless. i do read up on the latest technology, and read the stuff the overclockers talk about, but that's it. built a socket 939 system for a granddaughter in oregon, sixth grade, &quot;designed&quot; a computer game and wanted to learn how to write programs for games. for power users at this time the amd socket 939's seem to be the way to go, but not for the things that you use your computer for. the one that you bought sounds perfect and the price is amazing. i can't build one for close that price if i use [buy] legal microsoft software. i have helped a neighbor that had a new hp. i was totally impressed with the amount of data they provide about each model on their website. some of it if fairly technical, and thus a little tough to understand for a normal user. but it is there. main thing, robert may have mentioned it. i don't think that they supply the recovery/restore cd any more, but you can buy it, or they tell you how to create one by burning a copy of their &quot;hidden&quot; partition [which is the recovery software] to a cd. just to be safe, make two, mark them well and never lose them. i hope that you simply enjoy the heck out of the new system. you might enjoy rebuilding your old system. if you own a digital camera, you could send me a photo of the cpu mounting assembly, to see what it might take to make it secure.
i am enjoying my new pc, it's so fast! i did call best buy because i didn't see a windows xp with my new pc, and they told me i could create a recovery cd like you said, or buy one from hp. i am still planning on putting the cpu in my old presario as soon as my brother in law pays for the one he fried. i'll keep in touch. thanks
