ok, i have a western digital 80 gb hard drive. i have it hooked up as a slave right now and am attempting to format the drive with partition magic. i can read from and write to the drive just fine in winxp pro, though windows says it only has about 36 gb (i previously had a partition on the drive splitting it in half, so i'm guessing that is where this is coming from, but it no longer shows any partitions, just the one small drive). partition magic shows the drive as &quot;bad&quot; and produces an error when attempting to format (bad parameter/argument). pm also reports that the drive has a bad mbr (master boot record). in windows i can format to ntfs just fine, but nothing changes in pm. i want my other 40gigs back and to partition the drive again. is there any software or special jumper setting that can get it right?
just use xp's disk management tool and move forward. the 36gb could be proper if you selected fat32 for the partition. try ntfs and go native. in closing, reveal the version of pm and what size the drive is being reported as in the bios. bob
to robert's always sound advice, i would consider downloading western digital's diagnostic tool set and check out the drive. a utility is included to do a low level format (write &quot;0&quot;s to the drive) and this should make things almost squeeky clean if the drive is in reasonable condition. i am not sure about the wds but some drive utilities can, when bad sectors are found, reallocate the space to spare areas of the drive. of course bad sectors are not a happy finding and could mean the drive is failing. anyway, this will remove any partition information and you should be able to partition and format the drive to the limits of your bios recognition of it. good luck.
did you realize that xp can't create a fat 32 partition larger than 32gb? you could create one by booting with a win98 boot floppy and running fdisk, but xp can't handle it. if you use ntfs and get all 80gb then the job is done, what more do you have to prove?
hey, i downloaded wd's utility and it worked! i ran both the quick and long tests and neither found any errors, but when i wrote all zeros it worked! thanks for the advice, everyone; i learned some things!
