about 6 months ago, a thunderstorm was in the area and caused lightning to go through my computer (which was turned off, but unfortunately not unplugged). when i attempted to turn it on the next day the only thing that came on was a fan somewhere in the computer. i tested out the hard drive in another computer and it came up fine; the cd-rom drive works as well. is there anyway the problem could be the power supply unit? or is that not likely the problem?
remove baattery, or unplug push poweron button
just unplug and push power on button?
i took the side panel off the case and here is what happens when i plug the computer into the wall: the power supply fan comes on. a light on the motherboard comes on. when i press power on, the computer does nothing! help!
or the power supply is fried. you can take the power supply out and take it to a computer store and have them plug it in and test it. it's usually free. if the supply is ok, the motherboard or the ram sticks are dead.
the problem with lightning is the problem(s) could be anything. once, you figure it out, something else could go in short order or make the fix fail quickly. i find that replacing the psu is about the quickest and safest bet to attempt a repair on first try. i suggest you unplug ac for about a min. then replug and retry. if it works, great, if not then remove ac again and allow it be left alone for 30min. unplugged. retry again a fter that, otherwise if it fails again, test *all* componets one at a time elsewhere. basically, the mtrbd. or psu usually are the cuprits in such cases. take my advise and ''do not take anything for granted, test it''. fyi - lightning hits my area often and 6/21 last night hit my p/u truck(pretty sure). it works but is acting strange, so lightning does weird effects. oh yeah, i unplugged my system. further more, i use several surge protector and line conditioner to quelch such hits and surges. you should look into that as well once your system is up and running. good luck tada -----willy
the power supply fan comes on when you plug the power supply in????? not normal. the light on the mobo is a light that tells that the 5 volts standby power from the power supply is present. this powers the logic that turns on the main power supply rails [voltages] when you hit the power button. normally the power supply fan would not come on until one hits the power button for the system. you may have multiple hardware failures. easiest is to try a new power supply [might as well get one with a50 or 100 more watt capability]. you don't have to install the new one to test it. just unplug the ac to the old supply. unplug all of its connectors to the mobo. plug the new supply connections to the mobo, and plug it in to the ac power. disconnect all other old supply connections from the various devices. then turn system power on soley to see if the power supply turns on and the cpu's hsf powers up and the front panel led's etc. if that is a go, then remove the old supply and put the new one in.
in a previous post i stated: &quot;i took the side panel off the case and here is what happens when i plug the computer into the wall: the power supply fan comes on. a light on the motherboard comes on. when i press power on, the computer does nothing! help!&quot; i reconnected all the components that came with the pc i.e. hard drive, cd-rom drive, etc. now not only does the power supply fan come on along with a light on the motherboard, but the whole system seems to be turning on. upon plugging the computer into the wall i can literally open and close the cd drive, i can hear the hard drive booting up, the fan that cools the processor even comes on. however, the green light on the power button does not light up showing that it is on, and i get no signal from the monitor. it is like the computer is turning on - but not really! has anyone ever heard of these symptoms before????
i tried to reseat the ram, and made the system bareboned (only motherboard, processor, psu). still the same symptoms.
that the mobo power turn on logic circuit has failed. the main rails of an atx supply are turned on when the mobo puts a logic low on pin 14 of the power supply to mobo connector [pin 16 on a 24 pin power connector]. thus, i would suspect that the circuit in the mobo has failed in the low state [or of course, a failure of the supply's control circuit inside the supply could fail and cause the same indications]. the atx power supply can be turned on while sitting on a table in its box by simply plugging the supply into a hot outlet and connecting pin 14 of its mobo connector to any one of the pins in the same connector that has a black wire [ground, common, return, you name it]. thus if the power supply had the failure internally the supply would turn on by simply plugging it in to a hot outlet [the connector to the mobo unplugged]. if it doesn't turn on under that condition the problem is the mobo connection to pin 14. when not connected to the mobo the fact that the supply turned on is noted simply by noting that its' fan is rotatiing. seems that this simple problem has been around way too long.
