i have looked at all sorts of dvd burners and found one i like (lite-on-ihap422-08-dvd-burner). it meets all of my system requirements, but i can't figure out if pata will work with my computer. it is ide, the right size. i googled pata and just can't quite figure it out.
is this an addition or replacement for your system ? vapcmd
i have a dell optiplex gx280. it is 3.2 ghz, 2gb ddr2 ram, xp pro sp3. i want to replace my cd drive with a dvd burner. my cd drive is a samsung sc-148a, and i'm pretty sure it is ide. i am looking at the lite-on ihap422-08. it has the features i want, and is okay with the size, and system requirements, but i don't know if the pata connection is right. do you need any other info? thanks
vapcmd
guess i can get the lite-on. yehaw.
just like the (old) optical drive it replaces. let us know how it goes. vapcmd
i finally made up my mind and ordered an lg gh22lp20. i think with help i have received here, i should be able to set it up. i even think i can switch it to the master from the slave. if not i will probably be back here again.
to jumper a new drive same as the drive it replaces. vapcmd
hey i got my dvd burner today and installed it. it is pretty cool. i have watched a dvd, but not burned anything yet. i got some dual layer discs, and am waiting on some lightscribe ones. i have a couple of questions. in my old setup, both of the drives were setup in the 1/4 position (i guess it is neutral). i guess neither of them were master or slave. my new drive was setup as the master. i did not change this. will this cause problems, and should i change the old drive to slave? also, when i was in bios?, i got the impression that i could have used the unused sata output for a sata burner. am i wrong? i kind of hope i am cause lg has an sata burner that reads hd and blueray. thanks
when you say 1/4 position ...not sure i follow . . . do you mean the jumper placement ? usually jumper placement is clearly marked on the drive by ma, sl, cs, etc., ide drives are usually jumpered as master, slave or cable select. i prefer to jumper ide drives as cable select where the master and slave are determined by their position on the ide cable. drives at the very end of the cable becomes master and the drive at the middle connector becomes the slave. bottom line if the drives are working ok ...i'd leave them as is. re the bios...it's certainly possible the pc could have sata ports you could have used for a cd or another hard drive. link below indicates some models have one sata connector and others have two  vapcmd
it was just what the diagram i was using from the dell site, was labled them as 1-4 was (cs) 2-5 (sl) and 3-6 (ma). i think mine was setup as both cs. the cd drive was at the end, the dvd recorder was in the middle. i think it is working, but can change it if it will make it better. about the sata. my computer has an sata harddrive. it has two sata ports. one is empty. i got the idea that i could have used the empty sata port in bios. it said the empty sata port was for a harddrive or cd drive. i wouldn't have been in bios except i was told by the person in the dell forum that i needed to make changes there, but i didn't need to. guess that is only if you add a drive, not replace one. thanks for the info
sounds like every thing is working ok and you could add another sata drive...cd-dvd or hdd, if desired. re the bios and replacing or adding...right. no need to change the bios if you're just replacing an old or failed drive. vapcmd ps...just make sure you keep the dust bunnies out of the case...they easily clog the case fans and psu fan as well as the cpu heatsink and fan.
clean as a whistle inside and out
