i connect to the hospital records department through a nortel vpn (contivity). all was going well until an update in the client was required by the hospital. it was recommended the the old vpn client be uninstalled before installing the new. in doing so, there was an incomplete uninstall, leaving two items in device manager which i cannot manually delete and which prevent an install of the new vpn. the two items are ipsecshm (nortel) and wan miniport (atw). nortel tech support will not assist me, saying that the hospital is responsible and the it people at the hospital won't (can't) do anything and tell me to just reinstall windows xp. there has never been as previous vpn client installed on this system which i know is a known issue. please help! joe
they'll know what to do about this since they'll have others with the issue. bob
thanks, bob but i have exhausted that. this is a new issue which they (the hospital it people) have not seen and their answer is to re-install windows xp. any other suggestions? joe
why not run system restore to a previous date, this will get rid of the duplicate. it may be possible to restore the system to a date prior to the first vpn client install. tommy
type xp repair install in google.com to see how to do that without a total wipeout. the usual issue are firewalls. but since you don't have any, that's not it. bob
great idea but i tried that also. the system restore feature will not restore the system to any date prior to the day of infamy (9-11-06), even going back each day for two months. norton go back doesn't help either. thanks, joe
i find it hard to believe that nt said &quot;we can't help.&quot; usually any it department can open a ticket with nt and get assistance. in any case here's what i found online.  i have had this problem numerous times in the past where the installation proceeds then ends with the messages: during the installation of the device. the system cannot find the file specified and it goes into a detection loop here is the solution: windows 2000/xp has a bug that it cannot properly detect new hardware by *.inf files, if the runonce registry key is missing for the following location: hkey_local_machine\software\microsoft\windows\currentversion this key is often used by installers to execute post-reboot programs, but sometimes they accidentally delete this key. important: this article contains information about modifying the registry. make sure that you understand how to backup and restore the registry, in case a problem occurs. please read the linked microsoft knowledge base article prior to editing the registry. go to start run and enter &quot;regedit.&quot; go to hkey_local_machine\software\microsoft\windows\currentversion with currentversion highlighted, go to the edit menu and select new key name the key runonce, leaving everything else about the key alone.
