hello, ive tried numerous things to revive my buffalo 120 gb external hd. i have tried from recovery programs, such as ontrack's easy recovery and actives undelete, and yet i am still getting nothing back the problem started about 8 months back when everything was going great, and i forgot to &quot;safely remove hardware&quot; or hit the little green arrow before unplugging. so now the drive is not recognized, it is a raw drive, and i cant even convert it in command prompt. every time i try to access the drive it says would you like to format now? and i always click no, because i think there might be a way to get everything back but theres a question, if i format it to be ntfs or whatever, is it possible to do a format recovery using recovermyfiles? it would mean so much if somebody could just give a great solution to this annoying and time-wasting problem. thanks eitan
sometimes that works to let you get your files out. read  bob
eitan, call buffalo tech support... your drive is less than a yr. old so they should talk to you. i can't imagine them not having a recovery procedure for this type of failure. regards, jack
thanks for the suggestion, but im not exactly sure what a knoppix cd is, if u can explain wat to do, or how i do it that would be of great help, and if this doesnt work i will just call buffalo and see if i can recover it, which was another great suggestion thanks eitan
you didn't read the supplied link. it showed what knoppix can do for you and how they used it to access files and more. best of luck, bob
the knoppix cd is downloading now, im not sure if i downloaded the right thing tho i also tried a program called testdisk, which was the closest ive gotten, but i got confused with what to do next, because it said everything was ok so i will now try the knoppix cd thanks again eitan
thanks everybody for all of your suggestions i finally was able to recover my drive, and it was soooo simple, i feel so stupid i downloaded a shareware program called partition table doctor, i ran fixboot, which rewrote my boot sector, and after one second, i was able to open my drive i highly recommend this program, considering it was done in no time, i am going to go celebrate, thanks again eitan
