im using xp home (pentium 4, 1.4 ghz, 256 mb ram, geforce 2) and i just installed a plextor px-716a dvd burner with the latest firmware (1.06) and software for it. this was installed yesterday and i burned a data cd to make sure it was working right after i installed it. it is on the secondary ide port as master with nothing else on that port. ultra dma is on. when i read the booklet i think it said something about older computers not being able to work with ultra dma and that the computer would hang. i dunno, thinking of the possibilities. i get the following message when i start windows (after it detects the drives): we apologize for the inconvenience but windows did not start successfully. a recent hardware or software change might have caused this... (options): 1. safe mode 2. safe mode with networking 3. safe mode with command prompt 4. last known good configuration (your most recent settings that worked) 5. start windows normally i tried them all and none worked. i disconnected the dvd burner and still none worked. the computer kept restarting after trying every option. when i selected safe mode, a bunch of files loaded, then it restarted anyway. the farthest the computer starting up progress goes, is to the windows sign where it then restarts. can someone help please. i have files that are very important to my job on it. tell me if there is anything else u want to know.
1/ check all cards and leads are firmly in place 2/set your bios to run in safe mode - if you are running in ultra dma mode and your cable is not up to it then you will get similar problems to what you are experiencing. if you are able to boot ok reset your dma to a lower setting. 3/you may have slightly damaged the hard drive cable so use the one the dvd is using and just boot to your hd. 3/ if you can boot to your cdrom then use the xp recovery console and at the command prompt type: chkdsk /r this may fix any registry keys that were not properly written to when you previously shut down. 4/ if you have a virus emergency disk use it!! let us know how you go - if this doesn't work we can try 5 6 7 8 9! also if you get an error message just before it reboots this may help with diagnosing the problem. for future purposes i will give you some guidance with producing an emergency cd that will allow you to boot into a cd with a system similar to safe mode - this will allow you to may repairs using a number of programs. regards, peter
try ur steps this weekend and get back to you. before restarting, i get a blue screen with a whole bunch of text on it. i cant really make anything out cause it appears for less than a second. i would love to know how to make that emergency cd. thanks so far
even if you have to reboot a few times - particularly if any numbers appear as these are a clue - but even the odd word will do like &quot;volume&quot;. as for emergency cd's, in case we get separated here is the link - you can tailor this cd to your needs and include a virus program or just download as is - the trouble with xp is it is not dos based, therefore when problems occur and the operating system crashes only the recovery console is available, which for most users is not user friendly.  regards, peter
it was sent to the pc shop in emergengy status. its fixed and my relative didnt even find out what was done to it. yet to burn a cd to check if its functioning. im downloading that program now. thanks much
what was wrong with it???? - or are u embarrassed????? lol peter
system files were corrupt and they had to be repaired. think they said something bout a virus. i dont know how true that is. im having difficulty making that bootable cd. i have to be slipstreaming and the sp2 file was corrupt so i have to download it from another source. i will keep trying though.
i keep getting an error message while slipstreaming. i download the sp2 file (it version) off microsoft's website and the sp2 file (for home computer) off another site, i get the same error message during file extraction for both. extraction failed file is corrupt the process stopped here for the sp2 file (it): extracting file: mscorsvr.dll to directory: c:ddf798d2a9310af7847c5dba6ccf can you direct me to a working sp2 file or tell me how to fix this.
what program are you using to extract the files? - i use &quot;winzip&quot; from  when you say &quot;extracting&quot; do you mean you are trying to extract all the &quot;cab&quot; files from the large xpsp2.exe file you downloaded? or have you done that already and you are now extracting individual files from the cab files? what method are you using to produce a slip stream sp2 disk - let me know so i can read the method as well and follow what you are doing??? peter
here is a well explained method  peter
wow, that was easy and it worked. i doubt ill be able to test it but i hope it will work when it is needed. thanks, you have been of great help. i bookmarked the page and will pass on this knowledge to other people in need. thanks again.
i abandoned this program, no need to focus any attention on it.
