been getting this error message for a while now - at first i put it down to dirty or scratched cd's, however i now notice that it is also giving the same response to my e drive (both asus drives, one dvd rom, one cd rw) and also to my floppy a drive. to my knowlede the only recent update to my computer is the upgrading to the latest norton systemworks. very annoying so any help will be greatly appreciated. col.
o/s - windows xp home (original installation, not upgrade from previous version) tried removing the driver and forcing an update but still got the problem - though this did fix it long enough for me to run a cleaning disk on the drive. tried different types of disk as well and no format is recognised, (cd cdr cdrw and audio cd)
run the anti-bug suite courtesy of r proffitt:
ok, carried out all of the above but to no avail i'm affraid - although ad-aware finds 54 items but then crashes b4 it does anything about them. gonna keep trying with that one after clearing the quarantine in spybot and see if that helps, but in the mean time any other suggestions would be appreciated. thanks col.
didn't get round to delting the quarantine in spybot - all of a sudden the computer started to recognise the drives again without me doing anything extra. i did try to roll back with system restore but got an error on that as soon as i opened it telling me that it could not protect my computer and to restart. it seemed to be after this restart that it all worked again. very odd!!!!
.
for anybody else who develops this strange bug - which, by the way, returned. look at what you have recently installed - i totally forgot i had installed microsoft publisher, it was this program which caused the bug - delete the program - fix the bug. only problem now is - i want the program - oh well - such is life!!!!
you sure the software/application isn't looking for media in that drive? check what defaults you have set for publisher. options / general. just a thought.
problem returned, seems it wasnt microsoft publisher aftrer all. the real reason, after much searching has turned out to be norton systemworks 2004!!!! apparently it has issues with any version of nero burning rom earlier than nero 6. as i only 5.5.9 this causes a conflict. removed systemworks and no longer have the problem. if you also have this problem then either upgrade to nero 6 or remove systemworks. apparently no one is getting a response from the manufacturers of norton who are burying their heads in the proverbial sand on this problem with their software. hope this helps anybody else with this issue and btw - cheapest place i have found for nero 6 is e-bay, worth a try.
after 5 versions (2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, and now 2004), the only reason i see for it is a cheap way to get nav (which looks like a misfire in 2004) and disk doctor. the rest can be done without. reference  the same bug continues on in most if not all versions.
symptoms are as following: you get a message a:\ is not accessible incorrect function when accessing the floppy drive and d:\ is not accessible incorrect function when accessing the cd drives in windows xp. if you boot with a floppy all hardware works great. if you boot xp with a cd in the drive you are able to read that cd. the problem seems to be with nero burning rom. (system also has norton system works 2004 on it.) i uninstalled the older oem version of nero and installed the newer oem version 5.5.10.53 and everything works great! i really hope this helps someone as it took me a while to figure out what was going on. good luck!
