can someone tell me what's involved in replacing a currupted bios chip on a motherboard? is there any special tools that are needed. i have a soyo kt333 dragon plus motherboard that i tried to update the bios on, and it has appeared to have failed. i can't get my system to boot up. i even tried resetting the bios using the reset jumper on the motherboard, but this did not work. i have ordered a new bios chip from soyo. i'm just wondering if this is something that i could probably do myself or if i'm going to need to take it to a professional to do. any help would be greatly appreciated.
if so, all you need is that chip from the motherboard maker. my bet is it will cost about the same price as the entire board. bob
i had a look at the manual for your board, and it is a zif socket. this design is intended to make the bios &quot;switcheable&quot; whether you decide to make a go of this yourself is entirely up to you. if you feel you have the expertise to do it, then i say try, but be careful, the pins on a bios chip are delicate. make for absolutely sure you're grounded. esd build up can turn your new chip into a really expensive little ornament. i can only assume as was stated in a previous reply, that you opted to replace the chip as a less expensive alternative to replacing the board?
if you have a socketed bios chip, its pretty straight-forward in its replacement. just, remove with care and then ordinate new bios in its place. your manual or online gotted manual for your mtrbd. should explain the bios location. if you're unlucky, you may have a &quot;soldered in&quot; bios chip and should be sent in to be replaced/fixed, not for the uncustomed. if soyo is senting a replacement, it should be a socketed bios. you should check if the old bios supported &quot;boot strapping&quot; a very basic boot-up routine to help recover(via reflash) the old bios or similar notation on the topic, dig for it. enjoy -----willy
you say it's a zif socket. it sounds like it shouldn't be any harder than installing a processor. i opted to buy the bios replacement chip because i figured it would be cheaper and less of a hassle than replacing the whole motherboard. the bios chip cost me $20 plus shipping. with it being a zif socket i feel like this is something i can do myself. thanks for your help.
where did you find that it said it was a zif socket?
