hey everyone. i'm looking for a nas system. i really don't want a noisy external hd in my room on at all times next to my sony vaio laptop, so i'm looking at a nas for my home network so i can leave it on downstairs and access it anytime. i've been looking tirelessly at the options reviewed by cnet, but can't seem to find the right solution. i want something that... - can accept a 250gb+ ntfs filesystem (for importing video...i pass that 4gb mark after 18 minutes of recording) - has a rj45 port for my router as well as firewire/usb connections (for a direct connection to my laptop if i need additional speed, or the network stops working...) - can be accessed via ftp (if possible...so i can access my nas anywhere) the challenge is to find something that can accomadate all this. does anyone have any idea what i should consider buying?  qqrdz1qqcmdzviewitem this 300gb nas drive seems to meet almost all my wants, but the fat32 hd can't be converted...there must be something out there like this that supports ntfs. the guy selling it also seems to get a lot of complaints about the nas systems he sells, so i don't really want to buy it.
first the problem with fat32 is that the maximum filesize is 4 gigabyte. for our office our first nas was given away due to that limit. next the real issue came home is even at 100 megabit the transfer rates are quite slow. your average usb 2.0 is some double to quadruple that speed. the internal drive double or more than again. see the slowski's commercial? with a little google you can find other nas with the better linux or ntfs (file systems) and maybe you can more to gigabit network speeds to cure the speed issue. i now have the dlink nas, but the speed issue is still there until we upgrade the network switch to gigabit speed. in closing, i think you'll be disappointed even if the filesystem is fixed. bob
i see...thank you for your response. if speeds are an issue, i may have to live with an external hd in my room. speed is important when i import from adobe premiere, so i may have to live with a noisy hd in my room.
