hi guys/gals: don't ask me why, but what i am trying to do is have two network connections on my pc - one wired and one wireless - balance internet requests based on type. they each have local static ip addesses. for example, my wireless connection 192.168.1.11 is my default - it goes to the web as my default connection. what i would like to do is use this in most cases, but say when i am attempting to get an mp3 file (for example), the wired connection is used. environment - windows xp pro i know this may seem silly to do, but i was hoping there were some great minds out there that might have some ideas on how this could work. also - the ability to do this at the application layer would be ideal. changing a bunch of windows settings can be tedious and would need repeated on each different machine. either way, i am open to any ideas or suggestions. thanks! nick
mind you are probably using windows so that means the only adjustment you can make is to establish a route to one or the other network based on the ip address. tell me you understand routing and then we'll move to the next step. this will never &quot;bond&quot; the 2 channels. bob
hi bob, yea i know a bit about ip routing. what i can't get my mind wrapped around is intercepting the http get requests and being able to change the interface it goes out on. i read a good deal about &quot;bonding&quot; and not sure if thats what i am looking for. i want to be able to, effectively, choose which interface i use on each request. most talk about bonding or this type of thing leads into a reply with - you should just by a better router with load balancing. i am not looking for this. i want to write an application that filters the request and chooses an interface based on the content type. i appreciate your fast response. let me know what you think. thanks, nick
we can only establish subnet the internet to give differing routes for which subnet we wish to send it to which gateway. if you want to bond the interfaces you can't do it native. bob
thats alright, i dont really want to bond them. i want to create some sort of nat, one that lies on the client side and chooses which interface to use. do you have any suggestions?
ics, routes and such. the nat we do with ics is only going to thoroughly dismiss what you asked to do in your first post. -&gt; so is subnetting the internet going to accomplish your goal? bob
