1.) four pc home lan, full file and printer sharing. 2.) d-link gigabit router. 3.) external usb-2 80 gig hd connected to one pc. 4.) set external drive to sharing, works fine for backing up &quot;stuff&quot; from other pcs. 5.) power off either the usb drive or the pc it's connected to and sharing goes away. have to reenable sharing again. normal? any way for the external drive to remember it's shared?
so can't offer much more than how i set it up. i turned off system restore monitoring of the drive, set the drive letter manually, and use automatic caching. i set permissions to read and change but not full control. i can power off/on and the drive letter remains as does sharing. my bios knows the drive by manufacturer and model just as if it was connected to the mb for what that's worth. maybe, for some reason, windows doesn't see it as the same drive each time you restart.
that powering off and on just the drive, it remembers it's shared. but if i power off then on the pc, it forgets. i did assign the drive letter and volume name. permissions like yours. how did you set system restore off just on that drive? specific drives are not allowed on my xp pro. wayne
my computer/properties/system restore and select &quot;settings&quot;. you can't do that? i'm not sure if it makes a difference. i know that if i unplug a drive and use another usb port for it, windows sees it as a new drive and gives it a different drive letter. it also turns on system restore for that drive by default. i can't figure why it thinks its a new drive. does your bios id the drive? if not, i would wonder if windows forgets it saw it once and shuts off sharing.
the settings option in the system restore tab. haven't tried looking in the bios. will do it now.
and see if shows by model or if generic. mine shows full model #.
device manager only shows usb mass storage device. and this ibm bios does not list the drive. that may be part of the problem, this is an ibm thinkcentre. built for business &quot;stuff&quot;. it's powerful, p-4 3 ghz hyper thread (dual processor) with a gig of ram. sweet machine. i've replaced the 40 gig hd with an 80 gig perpendicular recording seagate and added an lg dual layer dvd burner with lightscribe. customized. but i digress, sorry. it must be something in the way the ibm handles usb drives. no biggie. when i want to back up &quot;stuff&quot; from my other pcs i'll just plug in in each one.
under usb devices somewhere not have it default to auto with each restart. i've forgotten the process but i had to halt during post and go usb device setting and restart until the drives appeared by model #. i exited and saved the settings. i also can allow more time for usb devices to present themselves. i had to add a few seconds for one of my drives that was a bit slow to spin up. you might see what options you have in your bios to remedy this.
