if you can help, i'd sincerely appreciate it.. i got a worm. i managed to download ad-ware 6 and got rid of the worm, but had a corrupt registery file and could not get 'word' to open. a computer savy relative changed from windows me to windows 2000, and 'word' worked, but dispite ad-ware 6 and mcaffee, i got another worm which resulted in a home page of porn advertisement which i could not reset(errant surfing 14 yr old lost computer privledges at this point). now the problem.. i tried to use the recovery function on this out of warranty hp pavillion pentium 3, 128 mb ram desktop utilizing the provided cd. 1 it could not find hard drive, 2 suggested using fdisk function 3 fdisk offerred 4 alternatives; only one would work 4 that fuction offered 3 alternatives; only 1 worked 5 i created a partition, 6 reformated 7 recovery disk worked, loaded original windows me; worked correctly 8 tried to install software (printer), but found out i do not have enough disk space. now i only have 1.99 gb with 1.79 already used. did i seal off the rest of my hard drive disk space? can anyone help get it back?
fdisk asked if you wanted to enable large disk support. you answered no. you get it back by starting over. or if you have partition magic, convert to fat32, then extend it. but that costs money... tutorial on fdisk at
thank you for the reply. i started over; creaeted another partition with the rest of my disk, it is now fat32. how do i make it my primary? when i try to delete my first partition i get a message that disk could not be locked?
you should have started over or bought partition magic. some only learn this by the path you have taken. here's a tutorial on fdisk that may help you understand why you can't just remove the fat16 partition.
i now have a basic understanding, but don't understand why i cannot just ignore my c drive-2 gb, fat16, and work from my new d drive- 36 gb, fat32, with nothing on it.i will go thru the tutorial again, but in the mean time, is there a way i can use the hp recovery disk, down load to the d drive and use that platform?
in a nutshell, with the pieces of the puzzle you have, you can't &quot;hide&quot; that partition. furthermore, the &quot;restore&quot; cds rarely give the user any option to install on other drives because such an option would cause support costs to rise. you may have to fix the original issue. bob
you mentioned a problem with 'primary' acknowledgement? manufacturers have different configurations but most have their jumper diagrams on the hard drive: have the jumper(s) on the back of 'both' drives been properly (re)placed on the pins for them to be acknowledged as primary or slave units?
