hi, i just bought an online game and can't get the cd to run/install. when i place cd in, it blinks for several minutes and the little &quot;cd icon&quot; at curser blinks on and off, but then nothing happens. if i go to run and select the drive it says to place disc in drive, when it is already there. one time when i canceled at the &quot;insert cd in to drive d&quot; box, my computer went completly blank except for the wallpaper. all the icons, the bar at bottom, everything. i also tried both drives. i inserted other cd's in and they work. i then tried with my laptop and it installed with no problems. it says it is compatible with vista and xp sp2. my laptop has vista. my desktop has xp with sp3. both computers exceed the minimum requirements of the game, actually they exceed the recommended ones too. is it possible the disc is not backwards compatible to sp2 when i have sp3 installed? i tried googling the problem, couldn't find anything, tia for any replies. john
such as how an online game came to be on said cd.
and look at its contents with windows explorer or my computer. no dice? then, somehow, this particular player won't recognize this particular disk. can happen, especially with burned disks. things to try then: - clean the disk - clean the drive - replace the drive - return the disk and get your money back - copy the disk on another machine and hope the new copy will be readable everything fine in windows explorer? find the autorun.inf or the setup.exe and do a manual install. kees
it's a multiplayer online game, doesn't have ability to buy/download online. it's copy protected. tried all the things you suggested, short of replacing the drive. tried autorun and manual with the setup.exe, it won't even recognize the disk. guess it's just one of those things. seemed wierd that both the drives on one computer would not read it, but could install on my laptop. they may be the same brand?, but different models. one is faster double layer dvd/cd burner, the other just a player. thanks for replies.
try exchanging it.
