good luck with it all.....i just got a eeepc1005peg for christmas and within 36 hours of start up, the hard drive crashed & got blue screen with win7. after 2 hours of (non) conversation-----they can only read from a card, i got an rma but will have to foot the cost of return which is 10% of what the thing cost. he insinuated that i abused the commputer (there are 7 laptops in my living room right now--3 dell, 2 hp, 1 toshiba, & a mac and 4 desktops---i know how to use a computer). couldn't get any company address for bbb complaints, the 'customer service' guy couldn't speak english or understand the spelling of my name, etc, wouldn't give his name or employee number so i could send a formal complaint. now that i've done a google search, i'm sorry i bought asus----your problems have just begun.....they will hang up on you, lose your laptop, say they are waiting for parts, claim you damaged it before you returned it, abused it, offer a lesser replacement, etc. i understand that parts have defects, but the distinct and universal lack of service is a problem. fortunately, the on-line store i bought it from will take it back, without questions & will pay for returning it & will refund my money! i will buy from them again. good luck!.
this has undoubtedly been the worst customer service experience of my life. i purchased an asus netbook in may 2010; this post will be a very brief summary of unbelievably poor service. shortly purchasing the asus netbook, it died. after several long and frustrating calls; their service techs told us it was a battery issue and sent a new one, which took way too long. that did not solve the problem as the unit remained dead, and after many more calls, we shipped the unit back to asus for repair. weeks later it was sent back to us with a new battery charger. we used the unit for a week, went to re-charge the battery, and found asus had sent us the wrong charger. after a couple of more calls, i requested from a supervisor that a new charger be shipped to me overnight mail; he told me we needed to send him the charger and then they would send us a new one, and not overnight. i refused to do this and demanded an overnight shipment given the complete inconvenience asus was causing me and the fact that i was about to travel and wanted to take it with me. he told me he would make the request and that we would receive a call that night to confirm the overnight shipping. we never got the call, and i have called their service line three more times, having been disconnected, then put on hold for over 30 minutes. right now i've been on hold for another 30 minutes waiting to talk to yet another supervisor to get the adapter overnighted to me. worst of all, we have been without a working netbook for 5 of the 7 months since i purchased it, and their customer service has been horrendous. i could never consider another asus product or recommend asus to anyone, and am, in fact, thinking of posting this story on as many consumer open forum and message boards as possible. i cannot imagine how asus allows this level of service to exist. all they do is throw standard answers at you, followed by bureaucratic process. if you're reading this, do yourself a favor and avoid asus at all costs.
i've posted my story to several sites, but let me know where you post & i'll do the same. thanks....................c
so far just with cnet and consumer reports, but would love to post it to more sites. let me know where you've done so and i'll be happy to post mine. i've never done this before, but they so infuriated me that i feel an absolute need to do so. the latest was that i waited for 90 minutes on the phone three days ago for yet another supervisor, then when i wasn't getting anywhere (they told me they'd have one call me back), i asked to speak to the call center manager or director, so they decided to hang up on me. and, no surprise, three days later, still no return call and still no power adapter, so i still have a dead netbook. thanks. steve
but most folk lose a battery or adapter when they send those to service when not asked to. if you include such, it is usually gone forever even with other makers so the lesson is to not send anything they don't ask for. order a new adapter so you can use the product. bob
bob, thanks for your message, but asus told us that we needed to send everything back to them. didn't sound logical to me, but they insisted. the frustrating thing beyond this incredibly poor customer service situation is that all they needed to do was spend $20 to overnight the adapter to me, but their internal bureaucracy has prevented that simple solution from taking place. steve
i've found them to rarely overnight items unless i pay. now there was this fellow that demanded that and ended up on the wrong side of someone's feelings in a repair depot. if we don't burn our bridges sometimes we get what we need but not what we wanted. sorry to read this story but service is hitting all time lows from my view. even apple blows it from time to time. bob
