alright, i've knocked out the possiblity that it's the keyboard/mouse, because i've tried three different mouses, and two different keyboards. the mouses are not picked up at all. the keyboards are picked up, but not very well. they work fine in windows, but they do not respond in the bios. it also takes multiple tries for the computer to pick up the pressing of the f1 key (for entry to the bios). this is not my own computer, this is a computer i'm working on for a friend, and i'm thoroughly stumped. at the moment, i've been dealing with using the numberpad to control the cursor, but i don't want my friend to have to deal with that for the rest of the life of this computer. it's fairly new, only bought within the past six months or so. thanks in advance.
the only item about the machine shared was the 6 months. that's a warranty issue. bob
however, if sent away, i was told that they will do whatever they have to to fix it, without contacting us first either. which means, all the data might be wiped, so we have to back everything up first. that's not something that's real fun without a mouse.
did you just reveal there is no backup plan? ouch. bob
now there is, but there wasn't. we've decided we are going to send it away, but i taught them how to back everything up so i didn't have to do it for them. no, we were looking for a way that would not require a backup first. it's very tedius backing up files without a mouse, if you haven't tried before.
how can i avoid backup? the only answer i know of is to never put anything i want to keep on that machine. bob
anyway you can help me explain that to someone who's only computer skills are turning it on, getting into the internet, and checking e-mail? really, i just assumed it wasn't worth it.
it sounds like you won't be losing your files today. &quot;anyway you can help me explain that to someone who's only computer skills are turning it on, getting into the internet, and checking e-mail?&quot; in their case it looks like there is nothing to be saved. bob
that's one way of looking at it. nevertheless, i did show them one way of doing it, although difficult, and they're waiting for the box to arrive any day now.
