we want to download netflix to our sony bdv-e770w/t77 blue-ray disc player. we have been trying for months to purchase netgear's powerline av 500 adapter xav5001 from the retailers linked to on their site. it is not available anywhere! do you know anything that might help us? is there a problem with it that is keeping it off the market? is there a comparable product available? thank you.
i am to lazy to go look for the latest news on these devices so take my comments with that disclaimer. like most things there are ieee and other types of standards. i suspect like many companies that waited to launch 802.11n wireless until the standard was publish that may be the case here. they would take the chance of being incompatible if they launch based on unfinalized documents. last i heard 1901 or whatever the spec is was to be publish this fall for 500m power stuff. even after the spec is out and assuming they guess correctly and had manufacturing all set it will take a few months to get the product to retail. i would be betting on december for first shipments and volume shipment not to be until first quarter 2011.
it's in stock and i could have a set tomorrow. bob
thanks for responding. i'm not sure what these &quot;standards&quot; mean, but i guess i'll have to continue to wait another few weeks to see what happens and if it does come to market.
thanks, but this isn't the same product.
is another type powerline unit. can you reveal what we are trying to solve here? if it's the av 500 you may have a long wait. there must be an alternative unit. bob
standard are just the agreement all the various companies build equipment to. they can do it themselves and ignore the standards but few companies do. went and did some digging. they announce the draft copy sept 30/2010. most companies will manufacture based on this since it seldom changes before the office release. the final document is scheduled for feb 2011. there is almost no way to predict when you can buy these devices. all depends how much demand these companies see. the larger question will be can you really get 500m or is this just one of those fake marketing numbers. i would assume it will be faster than the current 200m products on the market but how much we will not know for a while.
there's no other product out there that offers 500mb/s duplexed, or &quot;gigabit&quot; speeds, that's any kind of reliable. belkin has had a product out for a few ... weeks? months now? but the reviews are horrible. netgear got it right with their second and third gen products -- i'm a happy user of the 200mb/s adapters, but it's just not enough for heavy duty jobs like i do as a software engineer, and it's just barely up to the job of streaming hd movies or games -- don't bother trying to switch a lot of devices with heavy load over the xavb101 kit, you're going to choke it.
nothing from netgear in the 500mb/s class.
to go that fast we will have to wait or just get wired. for example i found that direct connection on 1000bt ethernet is my preferred connection for microsoft easy transfer jobs. bob
