i haven't done this in a while, and can't find the info on how to change the graphics settings from pci to agp. i'm having some trouble with my tv tuner card it is ati) and this is something that might help. can you tell me in simple terms, cause i did it before, but it has been awhile. i'm using me
enable agp as the first video search. it shouldn't help anything. it just tells the system during the boot to search for an agp &quot;card&quot; rather than waste time [milliseconds] looking for a pci card. once the agp card is &quot;found&quot; you are running from the agp slot. ati drivers can give one fits. i can't help you there.
program that it comes with.....and enter all of the configurations there. i about went crazy trying to get the correct settings of svideo vs the other options only because i wasn't using the tv at all and was instead trying to configure it for my vcr. a couple of emails back and forth with ati tech support got me up and running pretty quickly and i kept the notes on what i needed to do.....but it was all in the tv player program settings and they were the same for a vcr as they would have been for the tv so start there. if you need more help, post back and i'll hunt down the notes i took about this. toni
i also have ati. an all-in-wonder radeon 7500. i've had it about 3 years and it hardly ever runs right. i can get it just about right, and then the next time i want to use it nothing works. i want to watch my dvds on the tv, but the desktop is not displaying on the tv. i got it to recognise the tv display, by uninstalling and reinstalling the tv monitor in the control panel&gt;systems&gt;device manager, and the boot screen displays on my tv, but the desktop doesn't. also the ati remote control doesn't work. maybe it the canadian stuff, if a us company had anything like this i would have gotten it here. i know it is a complicated system, but i don't have these kinds of problems with anything else in the computer. i've had it running about 4 different times but it always messes up. their customer support isn't much help either. sorry to complain so much.
the mpeg licensing authority ( or .com) wants 2 bucks per video stream for dvd players. this would add 2 bucks to the dvd player software so current players often disable the tv out for dvd play. if only they would just tell you this. bob
unless you have a hdtv, it will look like &^%%^^. the resolution isn't there. i set mine up, looked at it once and blew it off. now, downloading from my pvr to my harddrive is another matter. chuck
it isn't just the dvd. the tv goes through the boot cycle, and then nothing. can't get the desktop to display on the tv. it would be nice if the dvds would play on the tv though. don't have widescreen, alot of dvds don't come in full screen, and windvd will play them full screen. the few times i got the dvds to play on the tv the picture wasn't too bad. i'm not streaming videos, i'm playing my own.
