how is it going, my pc is making me ponder. i have a 256 mb ddr 400 cl3 stick in a 3000+ amd sempron, my q is why is my available physical memory only showing 30mb yet my total physical memory is 256mb. i am running xp but the computer is only 1 month old and i am only running internet explorer on it, also if i want to upgrade my ram to hopefully solve that issue and have it run quicker, do i have to buy same brand or can i get any other brand as long as it is 256mb ddr 400 . i have 4 slots on my memory area how much can i upgrade to? a million thanx for being there... ps: is there ever going to be the perfect computer?
512 mb. no need to buy the same brand. if you have four slots, it makes me suspect that the mobo provides support for dual channel memory. are the four slots all the same color. maybe tell us what mobo you have. do you have the manual for the mobo? that should tell you the maximum amount of memory the mobo will support and the largest size stick that you can put in one slot. for me, re dual channel, i don't know if the sempron's support dual channel. possible the mobo supports it for the big brother cpu but not for the reduced capability sempron. what type cpu socket does the mobo use, 754, 939, or 940??? the 30 mb memory issue is referring to memory not in use at that moment. the operating system will use as much memory that it needs at any moment. when it runs low it uses virtual memory [page file][the hard drive] which then slows things down a little. you can always check in task manager to see how much of each is being used.
identify the memory type and upgrade options at crucial.com by your computer brand and name. after you find the type of memory and amount of memory each memory slot can handle, shop around. -nklein
you may be using a virtual memory operating system (os). linux, windows, macosx should use every scrap of ram since ram wins on speed compared to disk access. when more ram is needed, it's freed or something is swapped out. the concept of &quot;free memory&quot; is something you worried about in non-vm oses such as dos. bob
either socket a or 754, thus they will not support dual channel. if you have a socket 754 mobo, the only way you can use dual channel with it is to use a fx51 cpu and registered memory. thus no specific rules re putting in more same type memory.
thanx for your message, regarding the memory slots i looked that up and it seems i have 4 total 2 blue color and 2 black color i cheched crucial.com and it seems i am only allowed ddr modules 400 cl3. i am not sure what my mobo is since the pc was open box and it didn't come with any manuals nor discs. thanx for your help...
for some reason they were talking about you in the speakeasy forums. i personally don't like the speakeasy forums, as i have issues with the people in them.
if you have that information ... see what the mfg recommends. you could also go to corsair.com and crucial.com and see what they say works with your pc. if it says you need ddr400/pc3200 unbuffered ...just go to newegg.com and buy this. you'll never regret it and thank us forever....or at least for a while. vapcmd  corsair valueselect 1gb (2 x 512mb) 184-pin ddr sdram unbuffered ddr 400 (pc 3200) dual channel kit system memory - retail $76.24 plus a few bucks shipping model #: vs1gbkit400 item #: n82e16820145440
