hi, what would be a good spec for downloading music and using the internet a lot, but not playing games?
anything that is internet capable is the short answer. there are not that many web sites available for downloading legal copies of music tracks, i can think of two, spotify and itunes to begin with, and we can't discuss any illegal options. but that makes no difference to what you use. tablet, notebook, laptop, desktop, mac, windows, linux, ipad, even iphone and other smart phones will do it. with such broad requirements your options are huge. mark
i would like something reliable and that lasts, preferrably longer than 3 years. my first pc from evesham lasted 5-6 years, but the one i bought from novatech only lasted 3 yrs when i paid about &#163;500 for it. i want something more reliable than that and prefer to spend a little more to get something that works well. i would like the internet to run reasonbly fast aswell, i don't like waiting
i guess my budget is around &#163;400.
the novatech one actually lasted 4 years. id like something that will last 4 years without becoming slow in the last year. also, where is the edit button?
it always runs at the same speed as new. compared to new machines it would seem slow. bob
ok, thnx. is there any websites you would recommend for buying computers(already built)?
if you look at the top 100 at  you notice a lack of any desktop pc making the list. folk are not buying many today. why not a laptop? bob ps. yes there are plenty of desktops out there. i can't pick one for you from the some thousand models but almost any should be fine given no gaming, etc.
are these good? which is best? i don't need a laptop, i have one from work and they overheat and are more expensive. i want something reliable and fast as im impatient and short of time(i dont wanna wait 5 mins for a website to load). is zoostorm better than hp? is amd as good as intel? will all these have slots for putting in another internal harddrive to get my data off it?
i can't predict which will be trouble free for years but here i'd get the intel cpu units first on my list. why is simply because at the office and home we use visual studio a lot and it may upset amd fans that we had better performance on those. bob
they are coming out of the silly ward to give you thumbs down. lol
&quot;military intel.&quot;
are graphics cards used for anything other than games? i mean, if i go for the one with the lower end graphics card, is it going to affect anything like movies/internet ect..? appreciate the help. oh also, each post window seems to get smaller and smaller, if a thread gets enough replys, do the last posts in the thread become unreadable?
but for now, the current non-dedicated ram gpu systems (often called onboard graphics) play hd fine. and so far i see no change in internet speed. as to forum oddities, yes they are there. bob
iv decided to get a laptop instead, but not sure which one yet.
i note the laptop pickers but look again at  maybe the first or second laptop isn't a bad idea or starting point? bob
