currently, pcs put the monitor in power save mode, but the monitor is still consuming some power. in an enterprise, a single building may have hundreds or thousands of pcs. more money would be saved if the monitor is completely shut down. the savings is beyond the power consumed by the monitor. any electronic device creates heat. this heat has to be pumped out later when the air conditioning is turned back on. this also costs money, and is a comnplete waste. a slow drip in a tub will fill the tub. savings can be done by building the pc with a plug in the back to power the monitor. if the pc is inactive for a configuarable time limit (different than the screen saver limit), then the pc will shut power off to the monitor. this will all be moot when we all switch to laptops, but in the meantime...
monitors got their power from the pc's power supply. that's why old pc's had that weird plug. but the amount of power drawn by a sleeping lcd monitor is trivial... most are less than 1 watt. someone microwaving popcorn will offset the 'savings'. likewise, lcds give off practically no heat when asleep. and that excess heat from your pc can actually reduce your heating bills in the winter.
works for me, every time power consumption for computers is a big deal. for example, a couple of the big names (yahoo, msoft) located new centers near my in-law's home, specifically because the county has among the lowest electrical costs in the us -- the electrical costs are a significant portion of their expense. another e.g., a single &quot;super computer&quot; will use as much electricity as a medium-large town. it's expensive in monetary terms, let alone if you consider the environmental effects. it seems to me the industry has been rather slow to wake up and care - there's just little/no emphasis or interest in consumer markets. awareness is the first step.
i went to the extreme here and ordered up a p3 power meter. my home entertainment system was drawing 65 watts when off. it's now at less than half that but my point is that we need to know where the drain is in order to do more about it. one of my recent savings was not my choice. our fridge died and the new one is some 70 bucks a year estimated. i seem to remember the old one was closer to 300 or more. bob
the practical &quot;green advice&quot; for frigs in general if over 5yrs. old, pitch it or donate. don't move it to the garage for liquids coolers but actually get rid of it. -or- at least use the newest frigs you got to do the same. the energy saving matters over time but may not for short usage, like in a summer cabin/cottage but again if you're really out there any saving is worth it. i wonder what they say about those old gmc(frigitaire) models that ran for 30yrs.+? at my house meter it barely turns, my consumption is as low as it goes. but, i'm sure the frig is the biggest power user after the electrical water heater. -----willy
