hi, a brief explanation of my dell dimension 2350's problems: my computer would not boot at all one day recently when i turned it on. no dell screen even, let alone anything with windows. it has been a reliable computer for a few years. i tried a few times and it did boot up. once. duing that time i ran virus protect. nothing. i have firewalls and virus protect so i did not think so. since then i have tried installing windows on another, formatted hd. it goes through early install steps, but then won't go to windows, but circles back again like nothing was installed. so i checked bios. it is not recognizing the attached hd. i tried a few different hd. different cables. nothing. it does recognize my cd/dvd drives. i reset the bios. i was going to flash bios. the diagnostic code lights in the back are yellow, green, green, yellow. not one that is on the list i have. but similar (opposite) to board failure. i wonder if it is the ide port on the motherboard. do i need to replace the motherboard? if so, do i have to buy the exact same one? there are a lot of cables that go to the front i have not seen on other mbs. any thoughts would be great. this computer was working fine. no changes. and then poof, not working. thanks!!
the first thing that i would check is the power supply. dell desk tops are not noted for their power supplies as i have personally witnessed three of them going bad in the past year. one of the problems seems to be that dell sizes them to just carry the load on what they installed and if the owner changes drives or adds a device, often there is not enough spare power supply to carry the load. also as a power supply ages, the component parts decay a bit and usurp more power from the load causing failure. norm
thanks for the help how do i check the power? i will disconnect all other devices (cd/dvd drives). i did add a 2nd hd to the computer and another fan. would the lack of power hurt the hardware, ie. cause the motherboard to stop working. thanks!
i would tell you to add up all the loads from all your devices and match it against the wattage output of your power supply, but this would add to the confusion since you do not know how to do this by lookinng at the data plates on all your devices.however, that information is readly available if you google for it. instead i will refer you to:  pc repair and maintenance: in-depth look at power supply be sure to look at all the articles. also, look at:  dell proprietary (non-standard) atx design note that dell has seen the light and on their newer machines they use a standard power supply, but do not trust that, check your system carefully. you may have to order a more robust supply from dell if it is one of those propriortary units. in the meantime, disconnect a couple of devices such as your cd and floppy and see if the hd is detected. this would indicate if you have an inadequate power supply. norm
thanks for the articles, i skimmed and they were very interesting. unfortunately, everything seems to have power. i disconnected everything except the hd and it still is not seen by bios. i even ran the dell diognstic cd and it ran tests on the hd and declared it fine! and flashed bios. it just does not detect the hd. i've used different hds, too. therefore i assume i have a faulty motherboard. oh well, thanks for the help. any other thoughts are welcome before i call dell and order the thing
