i have been satisfied with my linksys cm100 cable modem and linksys wrt54g wireless router (about 22 mbs down and 1 mbs up). security settings were pretty straightforward, and the setup worked well with homedns for my webcams in my old dell e520 xp system. last night we had a power surge that fried the computer and the cable modem. i got a temporary replacement modem, but apparently the wireless router was also hit, so i will have to replace both. my question is whether there is any reason to move to a more modern system or possibly a combo modem/router. someone recommended a motorola sbg 6580, but i'm wondering if i would likely see any real improvement in performance, and whether i would just be asking for setup headaches. right now i am leaning towards trying to find identical replacements, but i would welcome any suggestions. &lt;div&gt;&lt;div&gt;charles &lt;/div&gt;&lt;/div&gt;
i was also looking at the linksys e1200 or e2000 or e4200 as a replacement for the wrt54g. would one of these be a more modest upgrade?
first question would be does your isp use or plan to use docsis3. you fried modem does not support this. of course you also have to ask if they charge extra to use this feature. if all your equipment is g band then you will see little difference in any of the linksys routers you mention. the primary difference is if you need wired gig (streaming hd video inside your house would be a example) , or if you need to run on the 5ghz band (your pc would need a wireless card that was compatible). do you buy a combo router/modem is a tougher question. it will generally be cheaper to buy a combo but your selection of feature and brands is somewhat limited. you also of course would need to replace the unit if you changed technology say to dsl,fios,uverse. since the amount of money is not huge i would go for separate units since you can pick the features that meet your needs the best.
the sbg6580 is a combo modem/wireless router which means if one side goes out you replace the whole thing. if you like the mororola modems why not go with a stand alone modem like the sb 6120 or sb 6121 modem, they are all docsis 3.0 and then get a stand alone n wireless router. if your ip is comcast and you are in a docsis 3.0 area you will see a improvement because you will have 4 bonded channels down which gives you more constant speeds. you may end up spending a little more, initially, but i have heard they have problems with the combo units
