computer specs: gateway mx6445 1.79 ghz amd turion 64 mobile tech broadcom 802.11g network adapter driver ver 3.100.64.1 windows xp media center edition - sp2 the issue: my laptop is constantly disconnected/reconnecting. it does so within a matter of seconds, but just long enough to log off of online games, messengers, etc. it happens intermittently, but never goes more than an hour without issues. i've also noticed, after a day of monitoring my connection duration, that when the signal does die out, it doesn't always register as a full disconnect, if that makes sense. my messengers will disconnect and webpages won't load, but the computer's not registering that it full disconnected from the wireless - so it's more like it loses the signal, i guess? this wasn't always a problem either - i'd say it popped up within the last 6 months or so. prior to that, i rarely had any problems that weren't related to the router or network itself. i know the issue is not: - my router or network - i have the same problem when i connect to other networks, including industrial ones (like at the airport). there is also the fact that my husband is running the same exact computer, settings, etc and his stays connected fine - power save feature: i have triple-checked that this is disabled under the advanced settings for the adapter. - distance from the router: like i said, this happens with multiple networks, however when i'm at home, i'm about 2 feet away from the router. my computer doesn't have problems finding the networks and staying connected at decent speeds - the problem seems to be staying connected. that's all the information i can think to share - if anything additional is needed, please let me know. i'd really like to find a solution to this problem as it's driving me up a wall. thanks in advance for all your help!
given we can create this issue on insecure or wep secured networks why can't it be this network? i read your post twice and can't find the security setup. in short our forum sticky tells a setup we find to help with the issues. a. stock settings. b. ssid broadcasting. c. wpa or wpa2 if you can support it.
to be honest i'm not sure what the security set-up is. i know it's password protected, but the network was set up so long ago that i don't remember how it was done. however not being a wireless expert i came to the conclusion that the problem isn't the wireless network based on: a) my husband has the same computer and is connecting to the same wireless network (secured) . he sits the same distance away and has absolutely no problems staying connected. my computer is the only one that seems to lose the signal. b) i have tried connecting to other unsecured networks that are within range, and the same thing happens. my husband's computer will remain connected while mine drops the signal or disconnects and then reconnects or whatever it's doing. like i said in my original post, it's enough to disconnect my messengers and not let internet pages load, but the duration timer doesn't always reset as it should if the connection fully disconnects. b) i was recently traveling and experienced the same dropped signal on the airport's network (unsecured) as well as at my friend's house (secured). their laptops were not having any issues staying connected, only mine would drop in and out. my friends' laptops were also the same brand, though different models - though i'm fairly certain they'd have the same network adapter as i do. d) this problem did not exist 6 months or so ago. my computer would stay connected to the wireless network with no problems. the above leads me to believe that somewhere along the line something happened with my machine that is causing this problem. i just can't logically see how the network could possibly be the problem when i am experience the same problem on different networks, with different security settings. of course i could be wrong since obviously don't have an every-day familiarity with wireless networking settings and nuances - but i figured i knew enough to come to the conclusion that the problem is with my computer and how it's connecting to the network rather than the network itself.
we have the issue of being able to interfere with a persons wifi if they are on an insecure link such as none or wep. forgive me as i can't write the full detail for each member. this is why we move directly to the forum's suggested setup. after we've done that, there is an issue with some network cards internal to laptops that peter out in a year or so. for that we have another long discussion post in this forum. in short i install a pc-card to replace the internal card. some will fight that move but i know the signs and carry the spare card to show it as a fix. bob
in the case of the interfering wifi software. it doesn't matter that other machines work. sorry but to explain this takes more than i'll write for each member for which i apologize. we use the forum sticky for that.
