ok, here's the deal. i have 4 pc's, i'm going to number them for practical reasons: 1 - desktop, windows xp 2 - dekstop, windows xp 3 - desktop, windows vista 4 - laptop, windows xp no. 1 is connected through usb with a level one router. the router is connected via ethernet cable with the linksys wireless-g access point. nos. 2 and 3 both have wireless-g pci cards (also linksys) and 4 (the laptop) had its own wireless card already installed, i don't remember the brand. after a lot of trouble and help both from live chat and the telephone line of linksys, i managed to set up the wireless network. everythinkg worked great, except for pc 3 - the signal was too low, because this pc was the farthest away. so i decided to buy the linksys wireless-g range expander. i disabled my wep protection and pressed the auto config button, but nothing happened. the link light remained red. after lots of hours trying to figure it out, the technical support advised me to upgrade the firmware first, in the access point and the range expander. after doing that, they suggested i give the static ip of 196.168.1.10 to the access point and 192.168.1.11 to the range expander (or vice versa, 10 to the expader and 11 to the ap. sorry, i've done this so many times i'm not sure now). i did all that and yes, the wireless network worked like a charm, even in the remote pc 3. internet connection working, the range expander lights both blue, everything 100% alright. some time at that afternoon, i tried to do some port forwarding to get bit torrent to work, messed everything up - so i restored the factory defaults, made the ip settings again and presto - everything worked well. it only lasted one day. today the link light is again red and pc 3 (vista) detectes the wireless, but doesn't have any internet access. also it says something like &quot;restricted&quot; or something similar (i have greek vista). also, pc 2 has lost internet access as well, although it does detect the wireless and connects to it. finally, the pc 3's ip has changed! i used ipconfig and while the ip was 192.168.1.104 while everything was working, now it's a completely different number. i suppose the problem is in the ip's... i'd like to ask if it's best to let an auto configuration or do i have to enter specific ip addresses to the 4 pc's. of course, the expander worked just right the first day i made it work, and the ip's were automatically assigned. i don't know what changed! is there something i'm not doing right or anything i should check? i even changed the channels (in case there was interference) but nothing. ssid is the same everywhere, and enabled, wep is disabled again but it just won't work. should i enter the ip addresses manually (and if so, which ones and where) or do something else? thanks a lot! p.s. for some unknown reason, the setup cd won't run under vista.
&quot;no. 1 is connected through usb with a level one router. the router is connected via ethernet cable&quot; i've found this to be unreliable when both the usb and ethernet is used. no one i know will support such. yes, some find it works but support staff will usually disregard pleas for help when it doesn't work. you may be another victim of an issue i discuss at this link -&gt;  frankly it's quite a mess so the only setup i am able to get to work today in areas this is occurring is to enable ssid (i don't know why people thought that disabling it gave more security) then move to wpa. it may take a day or two for the attacker to give up and get off your system. remember they are likely spoofing the mac address and wreaking havoc on the airwaves (your wifi network.) so a move to wpa and enabling ssid is not going to work instantly. so far the longest it too was 3 days for the pest (attacker) to give up and change their mac address to go bother someone else. in a nutshell. ssid = enabled. wpa = yes! forget wep. it's dead. ---&gt; i read your post twice and maybe i missed it. where is the expander? it needs to be just about halfway to the remote systems. and how far is that? bob
i don;t think it has anything to do with hacking, cause i'm 100% sure nobody in this neighborhood even has any wireless equipment also, i'm not sure i wrote this right, the router is connected with usb to the pc and the access point connects to the router via ethernet. this router had only one ethernet slot, and it had to be taken by the ap, so i couldn't use it to connect to the pc. the shop i got it from reassured me it would work - and true enough, before the range expander, everything worked well (except the remote pc, due to signal). i got ssid enabled and until i get this to work, i have disabled all protection. now, the distance between the ap and the expander is not that big at all... i'd say about 5-10 m. max! (with concrete walls in between). and since it did work for a whole day (signal quality was excellent too!), i don't understand what's stopping it now.
the only thing i didn't write about is better antennas. my advice on security and the issue we're seeing is not applicable to you i have to write that's fine and good luck. bob
