question: is there a life expectancy on external hard drives? i have been using the same 250gb external hard drive for more than five years. i backup quicken files, thousands of photos and a lot of other files to a portable drive several times a year. i would like to know if it has a life expectancy and should i eventually retire it? are there maintenance procedures that will enable me to prolong the life of these drives or is it just a matter of luck when it goes south? thanks so much! submitted by: ted v. here are some featured member answers to get you started, but please read all the advice and suggestions that our members have contributed to this question. life expectancy of external hard drives varies --submitted by ben_myers  life span? definitely! --submitted by zorched  life expectancy --submitted by hforman  do external hard drives have a life expectancy? --submitted by stephanber  life of an external hard drive --submitted by waytron  is there a life expectancy on external hard drives? --submitted by alswilling  if you have additional information and advice for ted, please click on the reply link and post your answer. please provide as much detail and information as possible in your answer. if you have proven facts, laboratory researches done, or referenced materials done for this topic please cite those resource and links in your answers to give credit to those folks who deserve it. thank you!
i don't know about 5 years. my wd died after 2 years.
of course it has a life expectancy (like everything else in the universe) but i don't think it is possible to predict when it will fail. i have a mac pro with 4 internal drives and 2 external drives. i have had two of the internal drives for many years. i routinely use tech tool pro to examine the drive volumes and files. just to make sure all looks ok. there are many other such tools for mac and pc. some come with the computer and are free (like the disk utility for the mac). i believe that routine maintenance should help to extend the life of the drive. to be sure, i am a computer hobbyist, so i am sure pros will be able to provide more detail. but back up, and then back up, and then back up some more. i use time machine in mac osx to routinely back up all drives. plus, i place critical files on the apple idisk, just in case the main drives and the backup drive fail. mf monterey ca
typically, your interior hard drives can have an expectancy to last around 3 years average. as far as exterior hard drives go, you can probably double that range since, for the most part, they are not running with your computer every time it is booted up. now, depending upon how you keep it stored (usually in a cool, dry area), and the amount of time you use it will add to, or subtract from the time life of your exterior hard drive. also, if you are able to, open up the device about every six months and take a can of pressurized air and blow out any excess dust that may be lingering. i hope this helps! -headspin-
there is definitely a life expectancy to hard drives, just as there is with any electronic device. the expectancy is related to the mtbf or mean time before failure - however, the mtbf is a mean - that is, it represents the average failure rate for the entire population of drives. this value is generally very high, but it only tells you something about the likelihood that your drive will fail. there is no way to tell exactly how long the drive will last. however, there is another interesting relationship between the age of the drive (or any electronics) and the likelihood of failure. the relationship when graphed forms what is called a bathtub curve - it tells us that there is a relatively high failure rate initially and after some (usually long) period of time, and that once the drive has survived the initial likelihood of failure, it is likely to remain functioning for a long period of time and then fail at its end of life. again - these two concepts predict behavior of the entire population of drives - i.e., all of the similar drives ever manufactured and upon which the failure rates are based. that said, there isn't much you can do to guess when your drive will fail (which it inevitably will). so - how to encourage longevity? run it for a few weeks without keeping critical data on it - some people refer to this period as burning in. then, keep it as cool as possible - perhaps with a fan or by making sure it is never on top of other powered equipment. if there are air vents in the case, make sure they are never blocked, which generally means, don't put the drive down on a carpet or some other surface with a nap or that will allow the drive to sink into the surface, like a pillow. that's about all you can do. for totally critical data, most it departments will back up data onto tape (or sometimes dvd nowadays), and keep the recorded medium geographically separated from the drive or in a firesafe. personally, in my linux workstation, i keep two drives for data, and mirror them every night. if you can afford two external drives, you might want to do the same - copy your data to each drive from the internal drive. good luck.
murphy's law says that your external backup drive will cease to function the first time you really need it, no matter how long you have owned it or how many times you have used it. having been involved with computers since 1971, i've seen most of the worst case horror stories up close & personal, including &quot;our data center burned up last night with all of our backups in it&quot;... (not my doings!) i suggest you purchase at least one additional backup device - the cost is so much less than five years ago! my personal preference is for three devices - grandfather, father & son, and you should keep at least two of these at a different location than your computer, like at work or in a safety deposit box. i saw a 500gb external drive today for $59, so the cost is minimal to actually have 3 separate backups.
it's tough to determine external hd reliability unless the manufacture has completed real life reliability tests. some manufactures have the capability of completing these tests however it is expensive. with budget cuts and companies revenues on the line you can bet that these tests have been eliminated. there is another method however it is not accurate. the manufacturer can complete a reliability prediction called mtbf predictions. mtbf (mean time between failures). it is calculated by several methods. this method is often used in place of life tests. it is expressed in hours. i would suggest for you to contact the manufacturer of the external drive and ask for the specification for reliability. ask whether it is from real life tests or is it calculated by using the above method- mtbf predictions. good luck. it figures wd had a failure.
yes they do and it is usually in 1000's to 10,000's of hours, of operation. however that is just a guideline, and your drive can die before then. so there is no set and rigid time of life for a drive. you just have to hope your drive will last to the expected time is used up. there are smartdrive utilities that can query the function that is built-in to most drives software nowdays and it will give you a report(abet cryptic) that shows how much time you drive has been on, and if it has had any errors during its life that you can check. which will give you a warning before you start having problem with it 'usually'.
i have had 2 of external hard drives die after only 1 1/2 to 2 years... i have been told not to move them when they are running. jm
i consider the warranty period to be the life expectancy. external hard drives have a much shorter warranty than internal hard drives. therefore the best &quot;external&quot; hard drive would be to use an external docking station that allows for internal hard drives such as thermaltake's blacx unit. usb 2.0 and/or esata connectivity. another way would be to place an internal hard drive into an external hard drive enclosure. with the price of hard drives going down as fast as they are, the simplest and easiest method is to use the external docking station. due to it being a bare internal hard drive you would need to protect it while stored. if you kill the drive, just rma it. works for me.
it is a mechanical device, and mechanical devices wear out by their very nature - bearings wear out, motors die. i look at external drives as almost disposable nowadays. i had a wd 300gb mybook croak after 1 year + 2 weeks, just out of warranty. now, i use a combination of dvds and an external 500gb maxtor drive. i'll probably move the data from the maxtor to a new external drive in 2 years or so, before it dies with all my data.
there can be no realistic life &quot;expactancy&quot; projection for hard disk mechanisms. mtbf you can look up and it speaks for itself. i do not see how anyone can provide a reasonable outlook to the question. well, other than manufacturing 'knowing' they have put in potentially weak parts because corporate decided to save $$ or knowledge of a flaw etc. however, this won't be public. you have made it 5 yrs so you are doing the right thing whatever that is. saying that the moving parts don't fail and you continue to keep it in good care ( users can crash externals in one slight movement); let's say it continues to work. then it is extimated that the platters can take reads and write overs to over 100,000 times. in perspective that is over 270 years if you did a backup every day! 'magnetic spacing loss theory' is used to characterize the head-media separation as a function of temperature, altitude, humidity, and hdd operating mode. however there is no definitive research as models are still being defined to test these factors.
according to a+ course work (and personal experience), the magnetic bit strength of any hard drive has a half-life of around 5 years. that means the strength of the magnetic particles on the surface of a hard drive have lost 50% of their field strength in 5 years time. not to mention the fact most external hard drives get much less cooling than the hard drive in a typical computer. if you ask me, i would say it's time to get a new external hard drive, keep using the old one till it dies, but begin making back-ups of your back-ups using another external now, in case the old one does fail. most hard drives i've seen that don't fail in the first year, fail after about 5 years. good luck and remember, keep backing up!
they go to the perly gates like everything with out warning id back up your stuff as much as possible heard drives only last so many hours it depends how much you use it once they go your stuff can be lost you then have to go to someone that can hack the stuff off the plate in the drive
methinks you are overdue for a drive replacement! drives do wear out. newer drives have s.m.a.r.t technology that monitors the drive's condition and can report problems. routines can check the surface and block bad sectors, moving the data to a good sector, however, this not only reduces the drives capacity, but causes fragmentation problems. with the cost of today's drives plummeting, your best bet is to spring for a new (probably faster, quieter and cooler) drive and save the old one as a backup, or for test purposes. i've seen current 1 tb (yes, that's terabyte!) drives for $75 or less. smaller drives for much less! good luck - but don't count on luck! dave
the life expectancy of external hard drives varies. let's rephrase the question: &quot;what can i do to get the longest life out of an external hard drive?&quot; to look at the problem from the point of view of a hardware engineer, you want minimize wear on the bearings of the spinning drive platters inside and you want to make sure that the drive does not get jolted, especially when it is powered up. a third, and possibly minor consideration is heat. the external drive casing needs to be well ventilated to keep the drive from overheating. if you are using an external hard drive as additional storage for your desktop or laptop, make sure you power down the external drive whenever you power down the system. if you are using an external drive only for backing up data, you want to have it powered up when in use, powered down when done, and kept in a safe place when not in use. always handle the drive carefully, so it won't get dropped or subjected to many gs of force. i have clients who have used external drives for backup for about 5 years now, and the drives still work perfectly. how long an external drive lasts depends on how well you care for it. personally, there are some brands of drives i avoid, due to unfavorable past experiences. and every brand of drive has its models which are absolute dogs. the drive manufacturers compete very aggressively on price, price, price, with seldom a mention of reliability predictions. i suppose i could annoy one or more drive manufacturers by saying what those brands are, but i won't. ... ben myers
insurance and piece of mind is the first order for me. with the technology issue the computer will have gone through two evolutions of advancement. the question is, is the computer fast enough and has enough memory (or can be expanded with additional of the correct type) to put the additional money into it. should the answer be &quot;yes&quot;, then replace the hard drive and clone the original drive to it. the original drive then becomes a back up drive. be advised that in some cases microsoft will require you to contact support to register the new hard drive to the computer.
all artifacts have a finite life. disk drives have a mean-time to failure measured in thousands of hours. this number actually goes up with the age of the device; those that do not fail in the first ninety days will last a long time. however, you must plan for the eventual failure of your drive. fortunately for you, the price of external storage is falling so fast that you can now have a tb drive for less than you paid for the 250 gb drive several years ago. buy a new drive and copy the one that you have to it; hours, perhaps a day. retire the old drive and keep it for backup. repeat every couple of years. while not perfect, this will give you a high degree of comfort. consider using an online backup service such as carbonite or google. these service use &quot;hierarchical storage&quot; strategies that provide for your data to persist as long as they do. modern technology does nothing quite so well as to make cheap, dense, portable copies of data. the total loss of one's data reflects some absence of planning.
is there a life expectancy on hard drives? yes, there is, but i can't tell you what it is (it varies). it is not based on calendar time but on &quot;power on hours&quot;, at least usually. it's fairly long (the numbers i have seen have ranged from 50,000 to as much as 300,000; note that if the drive was left on 24x7x365, a full year is a bit over 8,000 hours). also, drives have a system in them called &quot;s.m.a.r.t.&quot;, which is &quot;self monitoring and reporting technology&quot; or something like that, generally, in so far as &quot;natural&quot; death is concerned (not death caused by a sudden event like a physical shock), the drive will usually know when it's going to fail and is capable of giving warning if asked. the problems with this are that smart does not always work unless the drive is connected natively (directly via ide or sata; not by usb or firewire) and many systems are not setup to &quot;ask&quot; the drive about it's health (for drives connected natively, most bios' have an option to do this each time the system boots; amazingly, the default, however, is often to disable this capability). in particular, drives connected by usb or firewire (in other words most external drives) probably never get asked. on the bright side: i'd probably rather trust your &quot;old faithful&quot; drives, even if they are 5 years old, than a brand new drive that i had just received from a vendor. the death rate for drives in the first 30 days (some would say in the 1st 6 months) is frighteningly high. last comment: an external drive should be a backup, not a primary drive. and, further, you should always have multiple copies of anything that is important. if these rules are followed, it would be difficult to lose data due to the loss of a single drive (and, in particular, a single external drive). you should have another copy somewhere.
ted, we recently had a discussion on cd and dvd media and the life expectancy predictions were all over the map depending on who read what. without getting into firm numbers, i've seen hard drives last a few months to lasting many years. there are advantages to using a hard drive for backup but, first, what do you mean by &quot;backup&quot;? there is a difference between backup and archive. in the case of backup, the primary copy of the data will exist elsewhere. that means you will always have a minimum of two copies of the data. in the case of an archive, there may only be one copy on archive media. one of the issues with backing up to disk is the finite space on the disk. someone once said that if the backup drive is the same size as the main disk drive, it can always be used as a backup. this may not necessarily be true if you plan on keeping multiple generations (current backup + one that is a month old + one that is 3 months old + one a year old). the more generations you plan to keep, the more space will be taken up. you need to analyze your data to determine how many generations of that data would be kept. say you are keeping backups of data that changes daily and a loss of 1 week would be unacceptable. then there would not be much point keeping anything older than a week old as the data would be worthless. keep in mind, this may not really be the case when you can restore two weeks back and then go through physical papers to recreate the missing data. if you figured out that only one copy of all of your data is all that is really needed, then you have very little to worry about because the odds of losing both the original data and the backup is small. however, if you will need to have access to a lot of older generations of the data, making several backups may be a good idea if they are all on seperate media as any media can suffer sudden death brought about by non-disk related things such as temperature problems (fan dies?), processor problem, fire, theft, etc. if you really want to know what the manufacturer thinks is the lifetime of the disk, look for a statistic on the manufacturer's description of the drive called &quot;mean time before failure&quot; or &quot;mtbf&quot;. there are different measuring units for this but it should give you an idea of how to compare drives. this, of course, assumes that the disk manufacturers all thoroughly tested their drives to come up with this number and there is some conformity in the testing. still, this is a &quot;mean time&quot;. your mileage may vary (for better or worse). you don't need to &quot;retire&quot; your drive arbitrarily. many times a drive will give you a warning before they go such as data errors in some file or by the use of s.m.a.r.t. technology. you can alwas &quot;push&quot; the issue by running diagnostic tests (non-destructive) on the drive and see if small errors popup. i would not recommend this, though, because the tests could damage the drive more than you would expect. here are some alternatives to think about: 1) periodically, burn your data to a dvd. especially if you use archive grade, these backups could last awhile even though your current backup is still on the disk. if you don't use archive grade, the mtbf is about 5 years and some people reported having degradation after only three. 2) consider a raid system for your main data drive and/or the backup drive. if you don't know much about raid disk, it can easily be looked up. i would recommend something fast, like, raid 1 for your primary data drive and a slower raid 5 or 6 on your backup drives. 3) if there will be a &quot;gap&quot; between your last backup date and your current date for your data, consider keeping some paper copies for the short term (quicken can print transaction reports, for example). 4) if any drive or fan starts to make unusual noises, that is the time for immediate repair or replacement. waiting a few weeks is not a good option. so, to answer your question directly, the mtbf statistic could be used as a guide but remember that a drive can fail at any time and this stat is only a mean/average figure. the best way to handle this is by planning what data needs to be backed up, how often the data changes and ask youself &quot;if the drive (backup or main) dies in 5 minutes, how much trouble would you be in?&quot; use redundancy for critical data and consider environmental changes as a cause of problems almost more than just the drive &quot;wearing out&quot;.
do external hard drives have a life expectancy? absolutely. inside each external enclosure is your standard computer hard drive, either a 2.5&quot; laptop drive in your portable external hard drives or a 3.5&quot; desktop hard drive inside the larger, less portable external hard drives. each drive has an electrical motor in it that actually spins the platters within the hard drive. as it's your standard electrically based magnet and coil motor, there's friction in effect, which means wear and tear, which means eventually, that motor will fail. it's not &quot;if&quot; it fails it's &quot;when&quot; it fails. this is the most common way hard drives fail, but if you've ever seen the bottom of a hard drive, you'll see hundreds of different parts, circuits, resistors and other various electronics that are all just waiting to fail. eventually. some manufacture's will even tell you how long your hard drive will last. if you can figure out what it all means. here's one from a popular hard drive manufacturer's data sheet. reliability/data integrity contact start-stops 50,000 annualized failure rate 0.34% mean time between failures (hours) 750,000 but before you start counting how often you turn it on, or how long you've been running it each day, or crossing your fingers and just hoping it doesn't fail today, do what makes sense. if you have content that is highly important to you, either personally or professionally, then treat it as such. do two kinds of backups. one optically (cd's or dvd's) and one magnetically, ie: with an external hard drive. or use an online backup service. or use 'flash' memory, such as a usb thumb drive or a very new (and still quite expensive) ssd (solid state drive) since you'll very likely be dead before the drive fails. or so they say... just as optical discs were supposed to last a lifetime, we now see that they don't. personally, i just buy a new external hard drive every year. they get bigger and cheaper every year, and i typically am near to running out of space every year anyway, so moving into a bigger drive actually makes quite a bit of sense in a couple of ways. i'll then copy everything over to the new drive, then 'archive' the old drive (put it in a box in the closet up high enough away from my 9 year old) and just use the new one. that way if my current model fails, i still have most of what was important to me. better 'most' than 'none'. if you're really really really worried about your data, keep your archived external in a small fire and water resistant box and put it in your safe deposit box at the bank. the nice thing about using online backup services is that they also do 'redundant' backups, so it's much more likely it'll always be there. the only downside to using an online service is that the initial upload is well, slow. kinda like watching paint dry. in the rain. while watching the movie the titanic for the third time. while listening to your mother-in-law go on and on about her last vacation. all while you're getting a root canal. it seemingly takes forever, and you're still left wondering if they got it all.
in my few short years working with pc's, i have found that they don't have a particular life span. some hard drives have a short life while others live on past 15 years old. just keep the hard drive in good shape by defraging it when it calls for it. many times it will say that you don't need to defrag this volume and other times it will. but keep in mind that when you defrag it when its not needed, you can shorten the life span of the drive. how do i know all of this? well i am a self taught computer wiz. i have learned by making big mistakes. now i go around helping people who need computer help. also if you overclock a pc, you can shorten its life as well. here is some helpful advice. get rid of that zone alarm. you don't really need it. instead, try superantispyware and glary utlities. these are both free and do wonderous work with the pc.
i've been told, that one needs to run -all- their external hard drives, at least once every 1-2 months[for a few seconds], to prevent the data stored from degrading/disappearing from your external hd and to prevent the moving parts from becoming stuck/frozen in place.-dog daddy
external hard drives do have a life expectancy, but they are much longer than an internal hard drive. anything mechanical has moving parts. eventually those moving will wear out. just like the human body eventually gives out. internal hd's have a shorter life simply because they perform more tasks and operations because they for the most part are intregal to the entire system rather than the external hd's that are primarily used for backing up system data. backup's are not and every minute/sec occuring event, therefore prolonging it's life more so than internal hd's.
google tracked their hd failures. you can read the full report here:  the main point is: &quot;in general, google's hard drive population saw a failure rate that was increasing with the age of the drive. within the group of hard drives up to one year old, 1.7% of the devices had to be replaced due to failure. the rate jumps to 8% in year 2 and 8.6% in year 3. the failure rate levels out thereafter, but google believes that the reliability of drives older than 4 years is influenced more by &quot;the particular models in that vintage than by disk drive aging effects.&quot; i would think the same applies to an external drive, but since you only use it for backup, maybe you do what i do. i only turn mine on when i run the backup. that's once a week for about 15 minutes. i expect mine to last a long time.
like all mechanical devices, the more you use them the shorter the life expectancy. i have also found that by not shutting down my office computer , it continues to function flawlessly for years past those around me that turn their computers off nightly. go figure. i have external hard drives , and internal for that fact, that have surpassed their 50,000-100,000 hours mtbf (mean time before failure), yet others complain that their hard drives failed after a week. some manufacturers warrant their drives for 3 years and others give you 5 years, most people upgrade their computes,drives and all every 6 month to a year, as size increase and price drops. i have a 200 mb hard drive from the eighties that cost the govt. $400 , i have flash cards with 2000 mb and they cost $8 now, so i would say that my 200 mb drive is a trash bin item even though it still works ! well you must get my point by now, most drives last longer than they are needed.
understand first that a company will only warranty a device for a period of time that is statistically beneficial for them. in other words, if they find that a large number of their drives start failing after three years, they most likely won't warranty them beyond that three years. my new fridge (supposedly a 20 year appliance) came with a 1-year warranty. gives you faith in the quality of manufactured goods these days, doesn't it? where i'm going with this is the fact that the two biggest manufacturers have their warranty periods at 3 years. beyond that the failure curves go up to the point where it's not financially feasible to warranty them. most drives become iffy after 5 years, but as said before by others there are mitigating factors involved. humidity and temperature. if either is too high for prolonged periods, the lifespan will decrease. if the humidity is too low, you have to be more careful about static shocks, but not lifespan. type of enclosure. a plastic enclosure insulates the drive and does not allow for heat to be transferred away to the exterior of the enclosure. the only way around this is to either adequately perforate the enclosure or add a fan. if either of these cases are present, then you are okay. a metal enclosure effectively becomes a heatsink for the drive and promotes dissipation as long as the drive touches the enclosure walls. amount of time run. if you don't power the drive with each boot of the computer, then its effective lifespan will be longer. if you run it 24/7 then it won't last as long. it's kind of like a car in that regard. in the same vein, if you don't run it at all for long periods of time and the humidity is high, the bearings could rust. also, if there is a lot of heavy data usage, then it may wear out sooner. just sitting there spinning is not so bad for it, but if it's clicking and buzzing all the time, then the head arms are what's making that noise and they could wear out sooner. defragging a drive can help with this type of wear. all of this boiled down: yes, they do have a lifespan. yes, you should replace it soon if you want to have a reliable backup. i replace mine every three years as the warranties expire. they're cheap enough now that it's not too big of a deal. i honestly have two forms of backup: periodic dvd backups and a regular hard drive one. i keep the old ones around for a while, just in case i need a backup. do not just give the old drive away without making sure you erase and repartition the drive. if you want to be absolutely sure, then use a data shredder app, erase everything, repartition it, and do a long format. if disposing of a hard drive, i take the circuit board off the back and recycle it properly, then beat the drive with a sledge hammer. it's great stress relief. the reason for this paranoia is that if someone gets a hold of the drive and reconstructs the data, then i might as well just hand them my quicken files in person and say, &quot;here, take it for free!&quot;
i have had three (3) different brands of external harddrives go bad on me. they still go on. spin. but, i could not get the data off of them. i was running windows xp. the brands were: que, w.d. + maxtor. i found out that windows xp does not unmount the external usb drives by itself. after a while it does something to the drive. windows vista has a automatic dismount for external or usb drives. i also have a wd portable drive that just plugs into the usb port with no electrical cords. it is great. i have it in my duffle bag, it takes a beating and still works.
depending on several physical factors such as spindle rotation speed, flying head clearance, shocks (always to be avoided especially when the heads are in motion), cooling issues, and even power supply surges (killers for high density ics) your drive will last from 30,000 to 100,000 hours mtbf (mean time between failures). there have been two schools of thought about how to maximize hard drive life: 1) run it continuously (never power off) as the sealed brearings will last longer than other critical components and there is less chance the heads will ever crash since the most likely time for them to crash is during spin up or spin down; (that advice may be outdated nowadays); 2) use a disk manager program (and data storage scheme) that absolutely minimizes disk accesses, and power off the drive when the last access is more than a second or so ago. the theory here is to minimize use for lowest rate of wear. whatever you adopt as your strategy you should realize that your hdd will not last forever, and plan accordingly, for the day when it fails - critical (unreplaceable) files should be written to cd/dvd roms several times a year. you can reinstall software, download tunes, but your personal photos, and correspondence may not exist anywhere else. no enterprise that wants to stay in business ever puts its critical data on one drive these days -- they use raids with hot swappable drives which are backed up on a regular schedule. some day soon hdds will be cheap enough that we can use the same strategy for our data as well.
the most important thing to remember is to always follow the correct closing down procedure. never just pull the plug from the external drive, as i did one night to my cost. i lost 900 films in one go.it is completely dead. i have another one for music which still works perfectly after three years. hope this helps.
i expect there are too many variable to make a life time projection for your external hard drive. however, the reliability of most all electronics is inversely related to operating temperature. let it get too hot and it is sure to fail far more quickly than under normal operating temperature conditions. hopefully your external drive is in an enclosure that sucks away the heat from the drive, and the enclosure temperature reflects the temperature of the drive itself. if you external hard drive is getting hotter than just merely warm to the touch, you are risking an early failure. if necessary, take a surplus 12 volt cpu fan from an obsolete computer; connect it to a surplus 5 volt dc cell telephone power supply, and use it to keep the external drive cool.
all hard drives have a life expectancy, over time sectors go bad even if you do not notice any issues. there are disk utilities that will tell you if there are any issues with your drive. crystalmark makes disk info tools however i don't think their current version supports external drives. my recommendation would be not to store anything of value on that drive. the drive may last several more years or it could stop working tomorrow. acronis makes disk imaging software that would allow you to easily clone that drive's contents on to a new drive.
for 5 years i think you have had your moneys worth, it might last another 2 or 3 years but i would not rely on it, backup your stuff to another hdd
almost all the drives that have failed with little or no warning were in operation less than 90 days. over half the drives still running at home are well past their 3yr warranties. i have or support systems with drives that are over ten years old & running smooth. there are 2 to 10 gb drives that now backup data from the up to terabyte size drives that replaced them. that &quot;obsolete&quot; drive becomes a savior when something goes wrong on the new drive. 1. keep them cool & clean while running, no fancy stuff. 2. protect them from external movement while running. 3. keep the drive in the same position. drives can be run flat or on their side. because they develop wear patterns, changing their orintation is begging for trouble. 4. look at the manufactor's warranty, 3-5 yrs is normal. i look back to the 80's & 90's were people switched the orientation of thier computers to regain desk space, drive problems were often not far behind.
long: in general they have a &quot;working hour limit&quot;, becouse they have motion components, and there is a &quot;surface abrasion&quot;. if you format regularly the disk, this procedure checks the surface, and corrects errors, if it is possible. when the errors are too much, save disk content, and replace it. (s.m.a.r.t.) external or internal disks are the same.
all things have a life expectancy, but some do last longer than others. i have had new hard drives fail after a few days, other have gone on for years. i always back up my data, photos, docs onto cds or dvd. some makers give 3 or 5 years warranty on a drive, and i have successfully claimed for replacements. but, this is not much good to you if all your work is on a failed hard drive. you can get firms to rescue the data, but this is an expensive solution. i don't know which make of hard drive is the best, but there are some that i would not use again. your could have a raid set up, to give you a bit more security. keithrider
with the relativley cheap large volume hard drives around nowadays, its easier to always have an external backup of your external backup. thats the way i backup, after making my mistakes.. as for the life of a hard drive..they can go at any time...but most will give you many years of service if properly looked after. like the man said you can never have too much memory...
to check if you are into the &quot;danger zone&quot; of your hdd you must be refer to the tech specs. of the manifacturer for that model. you will find a value called mtbf expressed in hours. if the on time of your hdd is around that value be very carefull on its use. i've seen perfectly running hdd to die in seconds for a failure. running the disk into perfect condition of temperature and without mechanical stress increases its life!!
i am sorry to report that you are living on borrowed time. hard drives are mechanical devices with platters that are spinning at thousands of revolutions per minute and like a set of tires on a car, it is not a question of if they will fail but when? unfortunately, it is next to impossible to predict a hard drive failure which is why having multiple backups is so important. the average life of a hard drive is typically thought to be about 5 years. although many factors such as handling, temperature and just plain luck of the draw can result in failures at anytime. i personally find in my business that laptop drives are lasting about 3 years and desktop drives about 5, but all it takes is to drop your laptop once and you could be done. external hard drives use the very same hard drives that are found in desktop and laptop computers, however, i have found that they dont seem to last nearly as long. maybe, users drop or mishandle them more, maybe it is poor cooling, or just plugging and unplugging them incorrectly. as far as maintenance goes, other than keeping the drive defragmented and always using the safely remove hardware icon before unplugging your drive, there is not much else you can do except avoiding any sudden shock to the drive (especially while it is turned on). you should treat an external hard drive as though it were a carton of eggs and never, ever use one as your only working copy of any data that you care about without having additional backups. drives are so inexpensive now that simply replacing them every few years is probably the best course of action. dana wayland computer
is there any way of turning off installed hard drives, other than unplugging them to prolong their lives ?
as a retired expert on hdds especially microdrives, i feel qualified to discuss this topic. the media life expectancy is well over 20 years, that is, the time the media will retain the magnetic data if it's set on the shelf. the primary failure (wearout) item in any hdd is the bearings. usually caused by machines that are run 24x7 or sudden shock. rarely do you see a mobile drive failure by bearings in laptop drives that are used as portable machines however more and more are being used as home office machines and may be left spinning more than 12hrs/day. for the external question, the major threat is shock caused by an accidental drop which could damage the bearings causing the disk to not run true and loss of data could occur. take care of the drive, limit spin hours and your drive should last for 10-15 years or more. then there are those pesky electronic failures that just happen... can't predict those. bill heybruck, ph.d. former senior engineer for hitachi gst now director, industrial solutions lab, unc charlotte
two specs usually determine the life of a drive - mtbf (mean time between failure) and service life. mtbf - although this is the most stnadardized measure provided by manufacturers, it can be deceiving, mtbf ratings can equate to 20-30 years between failures - obviously this is unlikely. it is a good indicator of reliability and must be used in conjunction with the service life rating service life - typicaly this spec runs in the single digit number of years. personally, i would not rely on a drive more than 4-5 years (as the cost of storage has dropped so significantly, i would not take take the chance with my data)
you can power down your internal hard drive from the power setting menu. start &gt; control panel (switch to classic view) &gt; power options. simply change the setting for turn off hard drive. this will spin down the hard drive after the computer has been inactive for a set period of time. note: it is often debatable as to what is really worse for a hard drive. leaving it on all the time or turning it on and off constantly. depending on design, it may be worse for some electronics and also some mechanical devices to be subjected to the thermal stresses and power surges of constant warming up and cooling down associated with turning on and off repeatable. this has always been the similar issue when answering the question of what is best, leaving your computer turned on all the time or shutting it down? dana wayland computer
it has been suggested elsewhere that the mtbf is 8 years. this means a 1 in 8 chance each year of a single drive failing. but i had a samsung hdd in a dell fail after only 3 months. i have other hdds which are many years old and still work just fine. so you can never tell when an hdd is going to fail. it could be in 5 minutes or five years time. i always backup my backups!
all mechanical devices have a life expectancy in that they will eventually fail. at five years, your hard drive is getting a little long in the tooth. today's hard drives are getting more and more inexpensive. my suggestion is to get two external drives, and alternate backups to both. if a drive eventually fails you will still have the other backup version. i would also suggest backing up more often than a few times per year. remember, your pc hard drive will also eventually fail, and you will want your backup to be as current as possible, especially with the quicken files you are storing.
back-up disc is not needed to run all the time, is there any way of powering down not needed hdd ?
turn off the external hard drive when you are not using it. ree miller
external hard drives will live forever and never die. after all there are no internal moving parts or anything that could possibly deteriorate or degrade causing harm. that is why all manufactures making these hard drives devices put a lifetime warranty on these items.
disk prices are dirt cheap compared to what we have invested in our systems in money, time and the emotional value of our data. do not trust any one single drive to keep your precious data. for example, a friend lost everything when her $1400 laptop crashed. a new eide drive cost only $87.00 ($37.00 if it would've been the new sata technology). what an unnecessary nightmare. i have a clone hard drive for all three of the systems in our home. i use multiple external drives for routine backup of my treasured data. life expectancy is a crap shoot. i have several old hard drives (one age 20) from old systems that i now use as extra external drives via a universal usb adapter ($12.00 on ebay for usb to sata, or 40 pin ide, and or 44 pin ide - power supply included). then i had a laptop drive die after only 11 months. a bit of advice for all of you that have the older ide drives (40 pin desktop - 44 pin laptop) that plan to stay with your system for a while. buy a replacement disk now while they are still available because all the manufacturers are in high volume production of the newer sata drives. it's more important for those of you with a laptop because you can not easily and neatly use an ide to sata converter like desktop owners can. moral, if given the choice of losing your precious data or buying extra backup disk, a new disk looks cheap at five times the price!
i wish i knew a definite answer, but in my experience i had two external hard drives, a mybook(400gig) and a maxtor one touch(500gig)that died after 12 months each. i asked maxtor to give me an estimate to restore my files and they quoted $3000.00 without even looking at it. obviously, i didn't do it. luckily, i still had most(but not all!!!) of my info in the hard drive, so i just bought a couple of more and it's been about 15 months now and everything is working fine. i have made dvds with my photos and made some dvds(compressed)for some of my music as well, just in case.
yes there is a life expectancy on external hard drives. if you ever have the opportunity or the misfortune to dismantle one you will see that the hard drive looks no different to what is inside your pc. the only visible difference is it may have a sata connection rather than ide. i discovered this by chance when the connection pins on an external device my son had were no longer usable and we replaced the case. as for how long an external hdd will last for can only be answered by another question. how long is a piece of string? it could die next week or in ten years time. only plug it when you actually need to use it would be the only way to ensure a long life.
look at the drive's specifications, you will find the mtbf number. subtract 20% from the mtbf number and &quot;chuck&quot; the drive when you reach your number. just a very good rule of thumb. often your first sign of failure is the &quot;instant&quot; when the drive fails.
hard drives store data in magnetic tracks that are laid down when you format the drive. over time, the magnetic signal fades. the rule of thumb is that the strength fades 50% in 5 years. you can refresh this by re-formatting the drive. of course, in order to re-format, you have to copy your data elsewhere first. storage is dirt cheap these days. get another drive, copy your data onto it and use the new one as your primary drive. re-format the old one, then copy your data back onto it and keep it as a back-up. if you really, really care about your data, i also recommend an offsite backup service such as mozy or carbonite. there are lots around these days and they are not expensive.
dear friend, the average service life of a hard disk is usually given as &quot;5 years or 20,000 hours.&quot; this means if a hard disk operates 24 hours a day, you will need to replace your drive with a new one every 1.5 to 2 years. (for specification details, refer to your hard disk drive's user manual.) the measure of service life used by most hard disk manufacturers is &quot;mean time between failures&quot; (mtbf)*1 (usually quoted at between 300,000 to 500,000 hours). the ratings (for expected service life) used by pc makers are more conservative, as they are based more closely on &quot;real world&quot; usage conditions. since expected service life and mtbf figures can differ by hundreds of thousands of hours, we recommend you use the expected service life value. for example, the usual service life of a 2.5 inch drive will be almost 5 years or 20,000 hours, if used at the temperatures specified for your pl. however, if a drive is operated continuously, i.e. 24 hours a day, its service life will be shorter. also, when using a drive in equipment that runs continuously, you can extend the drive's life by using the pl's bios area &quot;sleep&quot; feature to turn the drive off after it is unused for a specified period of time. (bios area &quot;hdd power down&quot; feature's &quot;time&quot; setting. certain hard disks are equipped with a periodic head cleaning function, which also helps to extend drive life. *1 mean time between failures = total operation hours (hr) -------------------------------- total no. of breakdowns *2 *2 excluding breakdowns caused by external factors such as improper handling, usage at temperature or voltage levels in excess of those specified, host pc and interface problems.
your looking at about 5 years, but alot depends on the brand and usage of the hard drive. always, back up your data, if possible use more than one back up source. for example, photo and word docs can be burned to cds also usb sticks is good for this.
back up the back-up. sounds redundant, but that is what backups are. a minimum of 3 backups in different places. computer, an external drive, and either another drive, disks, online service, etc. kept not connected to your system. i recently had both my 2 year old hp laptop and 4 year old maxtor drive expire 3 days apart. my dvd backups saved the day on are now on my &quot;other then hp&quot; laptop. hr
mr. koo, once again the participants in this thread have come through. mtbf is typically 10,000 hours. unless one has an hour meter connected, it is difficult to keep track of the number. there are some utilities out there which approximate the value based on &quot;power-on&quot; to the system. this does not take into account &quot;read-write&quot; cycles or field strength loss. external drives use convection to cool them which may be a problem unless you keep your home at a frosty 55 degrees (f) or 13 degreees (c). plus it doesn't hurt to use some canned air on them occasionaly. moving any drive while powered-on is a no-no. gyroscopic effect. it can only be moved in the direction 90 degrees from the spin axisis. and that doesn't take into account the read-write head. last the five year rule is a good approximation. if it doesn't fail immediately, one is safe for at least five years with proper care, and possibly longer. i would advise playing it safe. in fact i have an internal drive about due.
it has been my experience that they do in fact have a life expectancy. as with conventional hard drives like in your pc the external drive has moving parts, platers, heads, and hopefully a fan. they are a normal drive with a fancy package. my question would be do you leave in on all the time or only when backing up files? some things to make it last longer would be keep it as cool as possible while it is on. try not to move it while it is writing or reading data. similar to a cd walk-man if your jogging and listening to the cd it can bump the disc into the internals while it's spinning and damage the disc. the tollerances inside the drive are very tight. it is possible to scratch the platters while they're spinning. bottom line if you're worried about it failing make hard copies to disc or get a new external. when chosing a new one look for a model that you can replace the drive. your current one might be replaceable too. check your documentation or manufacturers web site. one more idea. some web services offer online back ups. all ways better safe than sorry. best of luck.
the life of any magnetic media type of hard drive (aka not flash) was studied by google. hard drives less than 2 years old have a 2-3% chance of failing at any time. after that the failure rate jumps considerably to 7-9%. it is almost completely unlikely that drives will last longer than 15 years. there are some things you can do to reduce your drives chance of failure, the most effective of which is running grc's spinrite on a regular basis. it will keep your drive in good shape and is likely to warn you of imminent failure. i would also recommend using an uninterruptable power supply to prevent sudden power losses which can damage drives or the contents therein. the final and most important thing to do is backup. one copy is no copies.
i certainly wouldn't trust one that long, although i've had a simpletech 160g for about 3 years. i bought a seagate 500 about 18 months ago, and it crashed big time when i pulled it off a cardboard box onto a carpeted floor by snagging the chord. i hoped it would be more rugged. the point is accidents, happen and lost pictures are a real heartache. get another and have redundant backups, since it can take 2 or 3 weeks to replace your computer when it fails. also, you may find you travel with you usb so you can share pictures. btw, a passport usb requires a very short cable on some laptops because of the limited power supplied thru the usb port.
the life expectancy of a hard drive will depend on how the device is used and maintained. if the hard drive is not safely removed connecting via usb port, it will cause some problems in the rotating disk inside the device. the data will be corrupted and damaged. also, do not over-use defragmentation because it will also damaged the disk. the time interval for defragmentation is from four to six months respectively. another good preventive maintenance is to make the device virus-free. do not use faulty cables in connecting the device because it might suffer from short circuit. do not drop the device because it will suffer from damaging the sensitive parts. hope it helps! cheers!!!
there is sharp (self-monitoring analysis and reporting technology)for your hard disk that will keep you informed of the state of you hd so you can backup just before it dies (ha ha)
yes there is - sort of... you didn't mention the brand name of your external 250 gb hard drive; but assuming that it is a quality product, on average you should consider getting a new hard drive after five years of use, assuming that you use it every day. one factor that you should take into consideration on a portable drive is the care with which you handle an external hard drive. the heads on the actuator arm never actually touch the platters. sudden bumps or dropping the hard drive can cause damage to the platter, the actuator arm, or both. if the recording head touches the platter while it is being used, due to a jolt to the desk or drive, or if it is knocked off the desk and hits the floor or any other object, then you have just ruined the drive. another safety precaution is heat. keep the drive cool. its being housed in an external case, there is less room for air flow around the drive than there is inside your computer's tower; so the external drive may tend to get hotter than an internal drive. with so little space between the actuator arm and platter surface, extreme heat could close that gap and cause physical damage to both the arm and the platter. assuming that you have been careful, have kept the drive relatively cool, and there are no damaged sectors on the platter and no damage to the actuator arm, then five years is about as long as you should trust a hard drive, depending on the brand name. maxtor eide hard drives have always given me good service. i have an old machine that is almost nine years old which has two internal hard drives: a western digital and a maxtor eide. the maxtor is about a year younger than the wd drive, and both are still working just fine--and they are constantly reading, writing, wiping, and rewriting data on a daily basis. i have taken care of the computer and have kept my home office temperature at around 70 - 72 degrees f. that seems to be the optimum temperature for both the computer and me. still, to be realistic, either of the hard drives could have failed at any time between installation and today. in your case, your hard drive was purchased back when quality of workmanship was still a virtue. in today's business climate, it's hard to say that any particular brand of hard drive is better or worse than its competitor. western digital (wd) was once a benchmark product against which other brands were compared for quality. over the past few months, though, i have heard and read quite a few bad reviews of wd hard drives. there have been more than one instances of wd hard drives being defective either straight out of the box or within a few days of installation because of poor workmanship. on the other hand, i have not heard any bad reviews of maxtor hard drives. based on reviews alone, it seems that maxtor has surpassed wd in quality. still, if you have been using the same hard drive for more than five years, you should consider adding a new second hard drive to your backup routine. if the data you are backing up is data that you want to keep forever, then you maybe should consider using dvds to back up that data. while external hard drives are excellent for the most part, i prefer to use dvds for permanent data storage and backups. it is still the safest way to back up data, especially if you want a permanent solution. dvd disks have a clear, hard plastic protective coating over both sides of the foil that actually stores the data. a cd does not. the surface that you write on when you label a cd disk is just the back side of the foil on which the data is written. one accidental scratch from the raw edge of a cabinet, letter opener, scissors point, or other sharp object on the label side of a cd disk will ruin it. a typical dvd disk consists of two clear plastic disks with the data storage medium sandwiched between them. if the label side of the disk is accidentally scratched, it will not damage the stored data, and the disk can still be read by the dvd drive. even if your data has a shelf life and is discarded after x amount of time (7 years for tax returns, for instance), dvd disks are still an option. you can use dvd-rw disks and simply erase the dvd and write a new disk. there are disadvantages to using dvd+r and dvd-rw disks compared to using an external hard drive; but dvds are not affected by magnetic fields, overheating (except for fire or sun damage) and the magnetic strength of the storage medium does not wane with age. dvds will have a longer shelf life than an external hard drive for permanent data storage, and they are especially superior to an external hard drive for storage of income tax returns and photocopies of other important documents that will be kept for more than five years. dvds are also superior to cds in the amount of data that can be stored on dvds. cds will hold approximately 700mb. single layer dvds hold approximately 4.7 gb. dvds are safe from virus attacks, too. any time you plug in an external hard drive, you are exposing all the data on that drive to potential virus infection. not so with dvds--or even cds. once the data is written to cd or dvd, if your machine becomes infected, the files on the cd or dvd disks remain clean. if i were in your boots, i would buy a new external hard drive. i would then use dvds for anything i wanted to keep for more than five years and the two external hard drives for data that i expected to keep for five years or less. happy trails, cowboy. al
first off, mtbf (mean time before failure) should be specified somewhere in the documentation for your hard drive, though this is often difficult to locate, as it's often buried somewhere in the technical specifications along wtih a bunch of stuff that you don't really care about. most external hard drives use exactly the same technology as the internal hard drives. this takes advantage of economy of scale, allowing the manufacturer to reap the benefits of the existing production line, and turn it into another profic center. as such, a matter of a few years isn't likely to pose a problem. many of these are basically a 3.5&quot; desktop hard drive in a case with a usb interface and power supply, though some of them are 2.5&quot; laptop hard drives, which tend to have lower speeds, but also lower power consumtion, and can be powered directly from the usb interface. the most likely cause of failure for an external hard drive is physical shock, such as being dropped from your desk while you're reaching for the morning cup of coffee... not that this has ever happened to me.
well ted, in my opinion a external hard drive have a period life (between 5 to 7 years average according to my experience and use)depending some things like: type of work, carefully handling, etc. these units are most expensive than internal and they be handling very carefully, because are external is most expose to a injury that decreases xtreme hot or humidity, bad storage of unit, hard movements, etc.(your constantly use may decrease the utility life) , in other way is most confiable and capable than the cd`s or dvd`s. in that case ted, depending cost you should buy another external dispositive like a flash memory. in my opinion, actually is more secure and confiable. in the market are differents options available (until 256gb) to your work.
is there a life expectancy on external hard drives? well yes if you using the same external hard drive for more than five years. i backup quicken files, thousands of photos and a lot of other files to & to a portable drive several times a year. i would like to know if it has a life expectancy and should i eventually retire it? are there maintenance procedures that will enable me to prolong the life of these drives. all external hard drive & portable are for life if you need more info then ring... 07960825711 thanks this is djscottbuik..
a hard drive could last forever except for the effects of: heat shock & vibration power failures obsolescence i have had to replace a drive for each one of those occurrences. the biggest issue i faced were power failures. i lost three drive before i figured out what the issue was. added a ups to my system and have not had one die after a storm, blackout, brownout, etc. it is the interruptions that last about 1/2 to 1 sec that do them in. anything shorter or longer they seem to withstand. of course dropping a laptop on the floor is not good. did that once. had an external unit with no fan - that does not work. i got too hot and was history. then there is just the lack of space to do a defrag. i have a 1tb unit in the mail now. theoretically, i suppose there is a limit to how many times u can magnetize those particles, but that is beyond me and i have never had a failure because of it.
the answer to your question is a definitive &quot;yes&quot;! please remeber that external hard drives are no more than internal hard drives parked in nice little drive enclosures with a power supply and an interface to your computer. generally speaking, if you open the enclosure, you will likely find a pata or sata drive that you could install directly inside your computer with a little know how. the manufacturer of the the drive provides mtbf (mean time between failure) specifications usuually with a 300k hour rating. 300k hours is approximately 11+ years of 24/7 continuous use, and most of us will tell you that this specification refers to optimal usage under optimal conditions which almost none of us have unless we run a line conditioner in tandem with a ups. understand that power fluctuations (i.e. drops, spikes, brown outs, surges, etc.) will gradually damage the circuitry, spindle motor, and heads in an electro-magnetic device such as a hard drive. so you can usually expect atleast half of that life span running continuously unless you take a major power hit. this means that pretty soon you will be operating on borrowed time if you use the drive continuously. if you only use the drive occasionally, say for backing up data, then you probably have a few years to go. but many think that most of the wear and tear to a hard drive is powering it on and off. dependent on the data you are storing to the drive, and its criticality if lost, you might want to buy a secondary drive. they are cheap! the question with any hard drive isn't if, but when. i hope this answers your question.
their is very little to do. just make sure that you do not disconnect improperly. also i purchase two seagate external and they fail losing all info within one month. received a replacement by seagate only to have same problem over and over again. seagate refuse to say that they have problems, except that they keep replacing them with used drives. has anybody else had problem with seagate external drives. i have a lace for more than two years never had a problem.
first, congratulations. in making an attempt to back up your stuff you're way ahead of a bunch of folks. the problem is that you're dealing with a electronic/magnetic/mechanical device and there is no hard answer, there is only advice. for full time drives in the aggregate, the probability of failure has a peak during the first three-six months, falls off to near nothing then rises slowly for maybe three'ish years then starts a precipitous climb. at five years you're living on borrowed time. external drives are a different animal and i don't even want to pretend i know that answer. life expectancy will depend upon storage handling somewhat but more directly the number of power cycles, total run time and the heat the drive endures. since you are only hitting this puppy &quot;several times a year&quot; you aren't stressing it much. the reverse of this is that you aren't exercising it much either, which may be a stress of its own. this is why military vehicles are driven monthly, but i don't know if the analogy is valid. suffice it to say, nothing is backed up if it doesn't reside on at least two spindles (separate media/locations gets into another discussion). be advised that this also means that you're at risk in the period between backups.
first and foremost, never trust all of your files to one form or type of backup. you could drop the portable drive and its instantly toast. if your stuff is important, back it up three times minimum. portable hard drive, cd's, connect your portable drive to another computer and store them there. email important stuff to relatives and ask them to store them for you. a flash drive is not good backup but its a good way to get files from one place to another for backup. now back to the original question. i have seen hard drives running continuously for 10 or more years and some have died in a couple of months. thats why you never put all of your eggs in one basket. portable drives should be scan-disked and de-fragmented from time to time. they should be connected to your computer and checked for virus as well. portable drives should last as long as a drive in a computer with the caveat that its portable and more susceptible to physical damage than a &quot;stationary&quot; drive. most drives have a warranty of three to five years. that might give you some kind of idea how long the manufacturer thinks they will last. most mfgrs aslo list average mean life expectancy. it doesn't really mean much except that by test methods a drive under ideal conditions should probably last x number of operational hours. my best advice, spread your backups over several media and replace the portable at the first sign of a problem (unusual noises such as whines clicks etc) or any problems reading or writing, or being recognized when you plug it in. use normal scan-disk and de-fragmentation procedures and take care of the portable when transporting or storing. better safe than sorry
backup on dvd and get a new big external hd to copy your files to and then unplug it (power cord and usb/firewire/esata) and only use it to copy your files to when you add more to your &quot;everyday&quot; external hd!! anything that has moving parts--such as a disk-- will fail after a lot of use, or just time.
my friend has been in the it field over 20 years, internal hard drives he says last about 5 years, so except for the lack of heat witch i don't know if that causes internal hard drives not to last as long?so i would give a educated guess of 5 years.i wonder if ssd drives will last at least 2 times as long because of now moving parts?
i didn't read your question about windows system restore problems until just now but what i have found to work when windows says after a attempted restore that your computer could not be restored is. open msconfig. go to services. check mark &quot;hide all microsoft services&quot;. than select &quot;disable all services&quot;. restart the computer and run system restore again. the problem is that a number of programs have a file locker built into them and a locked file prevents system restore from working. this is a simple solution that works well. but still doesn't work if the problem is caused by malware that has been on the computer for a few days
my other computer is a 15-year-old windows 98 with a 10 gb hd that is still working like a charm. of course the key is taking care of things.
i recent had my external hard drive die. in fact, it ended up dragging my system down - causing 4 hours to boot up windows, etc.. i was not able to access the drive in its original case. but, i was able to extract it from the original case, and install it into a new case. it was just a regular ide hard drive. the new case only cost $17.99. and, now it works fine.
i've had 3 different external hard drives, each by a different manufacturer. some were bought based on ratings by places like cnet. none lasted much over a year. i only used them to backup files once a day. i got so tired of them crapping out that i switched to online storage. but when i had to do a restore, it took 2.5 days to restore 12 gb. so i've bought another external hard drive, deciding that online storage is not appropriate for primary backup. will keep the online backup as secondary.
i hear honey is the only food in the world that doesn't expire. ever.
if you have an external drive fail, it may not be the drive that has failed. i have had computers in the home since 1990. i am currently running a network of 7 machines in my home. since the beginning i have had one drive actually &quot;fail&quot;. i have some drives that have been working for the full 19 years. i currently have four external usb drives and one ethernet storage drive in the network. the usb drives are the least reliable of those in my system, but the drives are not the problem, it is the case interface that seems to bail on me. i have had only two of them fail in the past three years, the interfaces not the drives, i simply tore the cases open and pulled the drives and installed them in the computer as internal drives, and they work fine. i am a fairly active gamer and i have 4 x 500gb in a non striped raid in my gaming machine today, all are over 6 years old and all are working well. i have been told by some &quot;experts&quot; that certain brands are good and others are bad, i was told by a computer store owner that he would never use a western digital drive. well, i am no fan of their software, but 95% of the drives i have been discussing are wd brand and i can't say they are the best only because i have not used others that much, i can tell you that in my experience, wds have been reliable for me since 1990, and still going.
another great website for backup is  . this site also keeps your data for as long as they last. free music downloads:
i am good on a computer, but have absolutely no knowledge of the technical side. when my old windows xp finally gave up the ghost, my grandson took the hard drive out, reformatted it and put it in a case. that is my external hard drive. i put my massive amounts of photography on disks and then on the external hard drive. i keep in a cool place and never touch it except to download or retrieve photos. i have had it for several years now and when this computer gives up the ghost, i will do the same with it. works for me.
i thought this reply was excellent and it confirmed what i had expected... these drives, if left to run and run will last a very long time... if the numbers given (750,000 hours = mtbf) are right... that's over 80 years... you will be very old before your drive gives up... maybe there is a decimal point problem there, but 8+ years is still pretty good. that's continuous running... however, contrary to what has been said elsewhere... maybe switching on and off lots of times isn't so healthy - the 'stress' of start-up will doubtless do more harm to moveable parts than constant running... remember newton's first law... pre-penultimately (this is my first post, i think)... at least one drive manufacturer - seagate - has free downloadable software that analyses the health of your hard drive. i don't know for sure, but it probably compares actual read-write times with the expected times for different sections of the disk... i have used it several times and am still using, as a second hard drive, an old 1997 6gb drive... don't ask me why, i'm a bit bonkers that way... the seagate tools program says that it analyses some other manufacturers' drives as well... get the software from  . penultimately: of course you can run said software and some evil gremlin can cause your drive to crash - we are talking in hundredths of millimetres in the amount of substance that is needed for operation of some parts of the drive. finally... i wish all readers of this post their fully 750,000 hours of trouble-free disk usage... mike
if you use your external h.d fro backup, make sure to plug it off after each use. the life cycle of your h.d depence of its total working time so it is extended when not working. ronen
well said,,, congractulation
how long a hard drive lasts depends on an number of fators: - heat. in a portable hard drive, this can be a problem with, for example maxtor diamondmax 9plus and 10 drives, they tend to get quite hot. today , there are a lot of drives that run at a reduced spindle speed. since you mostly connect an external drive with th usb bus, this is no problem, because in practice, you transfer data at about 30mb/s, this bottlenecks even today's slowest drives. - the voltage a drive gets from its power supply. 12v between 11.4 and 12.6 volts, higher for an extended time means damage to the motor drive and spindle motor. - times of spin-up and spindown. the spin-up and spindown are the most taxing on the bearings, spindle motor and motor drive - times you rewrite the drive. this determines the wear on the platters. this factor is less dangerous, because even with some bad sectors, you can still get most of the data off the drive. - age, or mor specifically , power on time it is a matter of luck when it comes to when a drive fails, you can never tell when it exactly will fail, but you can limit the chances of it failing: don't buy a drive that has bad reviews. for example, some time ago there were bad forum ratings about samsung spinpount f1 drives that seemed to fail by the bushes. i had, at the time, just bought 3 brand new samsung spinpoints. they all failed within 2 months. even the return disk from rma ( a 1 tb sata drive) again failed within the month. don't leave a drive turned on continuously, but don't turn it on and off every 10 minutes. a drive running for an hour is likely to have less wear than a drive spinning-up. don't keep essential data on only one drive. no, seriously, don't. back up all the data you do not want to lose. a drive only has one certain factor : it will fail! you just don't know when exactly that will happen (within the month, within 5 years, who knows ? ) if you do want reliability: a drive is most likely to fail the first 2 months of its lifetime, and after 3 years, at the end of it's lifetime, the chance of it failing starts to rise again.
i had a hard disk of 80 gb, now after seven years, i can hardly use only 20 gb of it. space is important.
this was a timely topic. i have had 2 maxtor external hdd die on me. my son has gad on maxtor die on him. in all three cases the units were hardly used at all. used occasionally for backups and storage and then turned off. the supplier was not interested in the fact that 3 of their products had failed. (all three out of warranty) they suggested data recovery - at a cost of up to $2,000 each with no guarantee that the data could be recovered. i have had computers for up to 10 years with no internal hdd failure. i have also worked in companies where the hdd has run for 7 years or more 24/7 with no failure. my suggestion is to steer clear of cheap hdd. from now on it is only wd or lacie for me.
hard drive manufacturers publish a host of data on their products - i don't mean the manufacturer of the finished product, but the manufacturer of the actual drives themselves. i have a usb raid drive assembly made by cavalier, for instance, that has two western digital drives inside. from a &quot;predict the future&quot; perspective, mtbf (mean time between failures) will enable a system designer or integrator to calculate how many drives can fail within a given time period, thereby enabling her to ensure an appropriate number of spares are on hand, but there isn't any way to calculate when it is appropriate to replace a drive. too many factors are variable - drive orientation, drive temperature, ambient temperature, cooling method, write cycles per hour, i could go on. most importantly, data stored on any type of drive - magnetical, optical, solid state - is never secure. especially writable optical media has a high risk of failure, but the fact that other storage media is less at risk means little, other than that they can - and will - all eventually fail. i back all of my systems up to a small - 1.5 terabytes - raid server array on my home network. this backs itself up to yet another raid drive assembly, a couple of times a day. for each of the drives i use, i have a spare, and once a year or so i &quot;back up the backup&quot; and swap the drives out. while this method is not 100% failsafe, it approaches what we refer to as &quot;five nines&quot; in the industry - a statistical uptime availability of 99.999%. this may sound a very high number, but 99.999% still translates to a downtime of a little over five hours a year, in an assembly that runs 24/7/365. online backup services cannot be considered reliable, either, as you have no control over the way the vendor maintains their server park, or over what happens to your data should the server owner go bankrupt. where data stored with amazon, google or ibm is probably safe, as these companies make server space available in server parks they use to store their own end product on, there are ultimately no guarantees. the assembly i use was relatively cheap to buy and put together, and takes little time to maintain. decide how important it is to have access to the data stored - there are guidelines how long tax data must be stored, for instance, and you probably don't want to lose quicken data with mortgage information for the length of the mortgage, assuming you have &quot;gone digital&quot; with this, as i have. the best you can hope to do is have regularly maintained storage available, to back up the backups, and to ensure sufficient ups (uninterruptible power supply) electricity is available online to power down drive systems in an organized manner when a power failure occurs - a drive that loses power during a write operation has a good chance of becoming corrupted, and there is no statistic that covers this common cause of data loss. one method to keep an eye on drive performance is regular defragmentation of the data on the drive. windows vista can do this automatically, even on a daily basis, assuming a system is kept &quot;on&quot; 24/7. &quot;defragging&quot; will provide an early warning of impending drive failure, because the routine will provide error messages when it detects bad areas on the drive it is defragmenting. at the first error message, it is time to immediately back up all data, and then replace the affected drive - assuming you have a spare on hand, one that uses the same form factor and interface technology the original equipment did.
i had an external usb hard drive crap out after 2 years. however, i heard a whine (like you hear when a camera flash is charging) so i figured a capacitor was bad. it turned out that the circuit board that connects the ide to usb was blown. i unplugged the drive from that board and made it an internal hard drive by plugging it in as a slave drive. i got all my info back, and it has been running fine ever since. kevin
all hard drives have a certain life expectancy, although it all depends on how they are used and how you keep them. if you keep them in a dusty, non-ventilated room and you are smoking 50 **** a day near them then i'd give them a couple of weeks before they die. however keep them in a good well ventilated area, and clean from dust, away from smoke, etc and they could last a number of years (sometimes even decades). in addition to this it's also down to drive electronics, no-one can predict exactly how long all the electronics are going to last for in a hard drive. you also have to consider other external factors which you can do nothing about, such as fire. one place i used to work in had a major problem when they kept all their hard drives downstairs in a place that was on a flood plain (hmmm... guess what happened?). luckily they'd kept all the paperwork upstairs, but they had to go through all the paperwork one by one and put it back onto new hard drives a very time consuming process. so even if you wonder whether or not a hard drive will fail you also have to learn from their mistakes and take into account outside factors as well as whether or not the hard drive itself will fail. a lot of my stuff i keep a copy on mmc memory cards, hard drive, and gmail that way if my hdd dies i've got it on either my mmc cards or gmail, if google goes bankrupt or anything i've got it on mmc cards and hard drive, and if the mmc cards die (probably the most likely one to go first!) then i've got it backed up on hard drive or google. in addition to this if anyone breaks into our house and steals the hard drive or memory cards the files are still there on google. that is another important thing to remember if backing up your important files, ensure you keep a spare copy of them somewhere else other than in your house. that way even if someone breaks into your house and steals your items your files are safe outside of the house.
my sister has a seagate drive in her computer and they're fine. they are supposed to be very good. the only thing with the external seagate drives is that some of them have special electronics which means when they fail you can't just take them out of the box and put them into a new box. best thing to do is get an external 3.5&quot; sata hdd enclosure and build your own with an internal sata hdd rather than getting these manufactured external drives, that way if the enclosure fails you know how you built it and you just need to pull a few screws out pull the hard drive out and put it in a new enclosure (of course this doesn't fully protect from full hard disk failure, but it at least gives you a little bit more protection from just the enclosure failing). i had one person call me up recently asking if i could rescue his data, it was one a seagate external drive and he'd damaged the usb port, unfortunately as it was a sealed unit there was no way into it to get the hard drive out (and it was highly likely that inside it was a non-standard hard drive), so nothing he could do but send it back to seagate and see if they could help him. if it had been a diy unit it would have been so much more easier, just unscrew screws, disconnect hard drive, discard broken case and put in a new case.
i have a total of 10 usb harddrives. of these five have failed. in two cases it was the hdd and in the other three the electronics (all three were wd). when the hdd failed it was out of warrenty so i just reformatted them and could reuse them. the three with electronic problems all failed within warranty. they all stopped beeing recognized by the os. the first i got replaced by wd. but with the two others i ran into problems. i use them for backup of my server. so the data on the drives is very sensitive. it contains all information abot my bussiness. thus it was impossible for me to send the usb hd for repair. one thing to be aware of.(oh, by the was, there was no error what so ever on the hdd it self). from that lesson learned i have now changed strategy and have more or less stopped using the encased usb drives. instead i have ordered a usb dock for sata drives. i intend to use that dock as a &quot;tape station&quot; where sata drives will act as tapes. two docks. one for a weekly full backups (mirror) and one for all files changed since. if that fails, with the mirror, i will just use full backup.
this formula never fails; the life of a hard drive is directly proportional to the amount of really important stuff you have on it and inversely proportional to the length of time since you've last backed it up. therefore, if you have every family photo you've ever taken, every song in your collection (many only available on that drive) and all of your important personal business documents on the drive and you haven't backed up, raided, or immaged it off in, say, about a year....stand back! that sucker's toast!
hi everyone ok, so how many times should i backup? one, three, ten? this is a question i have often thought about. what if the backup fails? could this be armageddon? the more times i backup,the longer it takes me, the more chances i have of losing the data and the hard drives. realistically, what is reasonable? how many copies of my hd should i have? bemusedly yours, dave :os
unless you're tossing an external drive around like a usb key, and allowing it bounce around in the trunk of the car, i fail to see why an &quot;external&quot; drive should fail any sooner than an &quot;internal&quot; one--they are the same devices, just in different cases--as others have cited, some external enclosures are abyssmal when it comes to ventilation, and that's how i lost a 420gib backup drive. of course murphy was looking over my shoulder at the time, and made sure that the actual failure occurred while three 160gib drives were in a state of flux.
the odds of an external hard drive failing when the hard drive you need to reinstall your backed up data to has failed is so remote that it shouldn't be a concern. run your external hard drive until it fails or shows signs of failure. then replace it and do an immediate back-up. best of all situations is when you have a desktop and a laptop that you use. i update each computer from the other by flash drive. then at back-up time i back-up one, then restore from back-up the other. which leaves me with three identical drives. if one of your computers has a second hard drive then before i do a back-up i use the old back-up to place an older back-up on that extra hard drive. then overwrite the external hard drive with the new back-up. that way i have three copies of my data plus an older version on that extra internal drive just in case something has recently corrupted my data. the time between back-ups should be enough time to discover if my data has become corrupted. one thing i do for further protection is to keep my external hard drive in a fire safe. for the paranoid a second external hard drive with alternating with one kept in a safe deposit box at your bank should satisfy the most paranoid. but even with that i cannot see any value in replacing a hard drive before it has failed or shows signs of failure.
i was a hardware technical specialist for 30 years. 1. electronic failures were more prevalent in the 1st year then in the following 10 years. 2. systems that were powered on 24/7 had less failures then ones that were powered off everyday; so don't power off your computer if you will be using it within an hour or 2. 3. the heads in disks actually fly over the surface of the platters closer then the particle of cigarette smoke(i think maybe about 10 microns). every time the drive stops the heads touch down on the platter surface with a potential for a head crash. a former post had the stats for 50,000 average start/stops before failure. 4. after you backup your data, no matter what media you use, read the backup. one of my customers did not do this and when he needed his backup copy could not read it!
refrigerators, and stoves, etc., come with 1-year warranties so that the manufacturers and retailers can sell you extended warranties -- no other reason.
you said, &quot;on the other hand, i have not heard any bad reviews of maxtor hard drives. based on reviews alone, it seems that maxtor has surpassed wd in quality.&quot; just another perspective... i've read more bad reviews about maxtor drives than any other brand. in any case, they were bought up by seagate a few years ago. i'm surprised no one has mentioned grc's spinrite software. if you have a hard drive failure, spinrite is absolutely your best chance of recovering your drive at least long enough to get your data back (grc.com).
i have a 500 gb hitachi in front of me that died a few months after the warranty ran out. the motor in it simply gave up. it reminded me of the fact that hard drive motors are not designed to run forever. and some have a very short life. any device such as a disk, cd, or similar device will have a longer life since they don't rely on internal motors. but because of our rapid change in storage technology, there is nothing that will have as long a life, and still be readable, for you information as plan old paper which is stored under proper conditions.
first as some have mentioned, heat build-up internally is the biggest factor next to quality of the drive in a preassembled enclosure and then handling. avoid knocks an movement when runing or powered on!! what i have not seen mentioned is that in the case of 3.5&quot; drives which are nearly all 7200rpm get quite hot even in your tower cases which usually have adequate cooling. but in the external enclosures only 1 out of 20 will have a cooling fan and vents built-in. no cooling fan then life will be very short and 99% cause of failure! as for the aluminum cases claiming they self cool being heat sunk is totally rubbish. if you examine them few if any have the drive mounted to the external case directly. they are usually mount on some sliding plate which is inserted into the case and that is not even remotely close to the cooling needed and some on rubber or other heat isolating material. a heavy highly conductive mount is required and the four screws themselves are not enough to transfer the heat outwards to the case and air. if you are building you own which i have done in all but one instance i have used vented metal cases or a convection heated plastic case (vents top and bottom allowing heat to flow out and cool air to enter at the bottom so their is no build-up). bytecc used to make a few well cooled aluminum cases with an 80mm fan and even they can get quite warm after hours of running. use a quality drive (brand name, eg seagate, fujitsu, wd which is backed for 3 years or more) until recently the seagate warranty was 5 years and was always my choice along with their high performance chipsets. using a model with a dual voltage power supply rather than a single voltage ac adapter in which 12v in is also converted to 5v internally. i prefer an external dual voltage power supply since the ps heat is outside the chassis. if it is well cooled an internal switching power supply (has a 110vac input cable) would also be good. bottom line is the chassis must have vents for the heat to get out and cool air to get in. the fan moves the air and if its convection as i believe nextec makes some. hot air rises so don't expect air transfer if you lay it on the side. many preassembled solutions are quite unreliable for long term use and the drive oems used are not industry leaders, simply cheap storage. the longer you run them the hotter they get especially if reading or writing data. this generates much more heat then when idle. pay a bit more and you'll have many years of service from your external drive.
though computing for many years, still classify myself as a hobbist. would like to know more about the smart drive utilities mentioned by kmanley57 - that checks use time, problems, etc. on externals. running xp/pro on dell inspiron 530 - using acronis 11.0 backup program. i run 2 identical external hd backups. one is fan cooled, and both are on -- one at a time, on demand only, then shut off. both are about a year old. though i think i'm well covered, i still have doubts. ancient-one
ok more like to a wheel bearing on a car since it's more similar. too random to predict. new cars get bad bearings, old cars get bad bearings. sorry i can't give you a definite answer, but i will say that i have had in my lifetime probably close to.....50 drives (laptop and desktop) that i own and/or still own, and none have died. now, if you drop it or do something silly, that's your fault. but i will mention that i have an old maxtor 40gb, that while it still works, is very loud. the bearings are going bad. i'm throwing that one away soon. another note: i was an early adoptoer of ssds (solid state hard drives), paid $450 for a tiny 1.8&quot; sized 32gb slc mtron drive for a dell x1 ultraportable (awesome laptop), and it failed. currently is being rma'd back to korea. i hate rma processes with companies that make you send the defective product halfway around the world...it takes months to get another one.
i've had several external drives fail, once it was a blown diode in the power section, another it was an ic on the driver board. both times i was able to pull the actual drive and install in another case, which was very inexpensive. remember to never unplug a powered up drive by pulling the end of the power adapter that connects to the drive, pull the 120vac side first. there's a voltage spike when the field collapses in a inductor, etc, that can create a spike that can fail something down stream,(talking external drives that are powered with a 120vac adapter).
don't be too concerned about the failure of a drive. if you are using a 250gb drive and that is the extent of your need, you can for about $120.00 pick up two 500gb sata 2 drives. mirror them, then you need not fear when the drive fails. unless you have a dual failure, which is a one in a million shot. if one fails simply break the mirror pair and replace the bad drive then rebuild the mirror.
this perfectly scientific and mathematically sound equation has my hard drive to back it up, evidentially speaking. gt
awwww, cummon ben! i'm about to pick up another drive and wanted to avoid the one year blunders. if you can't say here, please tell me: gtisnow aaaaaaaaat yaahhoooo thanks gt
hello i'm a student mct at howest belgium. and according to what we've seen in class, i can only conclude that there is a life expectancy for both usb hard drives, flash drives, ssd, ... this is due to the fact that most datastorage devices are based on the same theory, to isolate electrons. they use different isolators in each hard drive and the life expectancy of the hard drive can be &quot;calculated&quot; knowing the isolators used in the hard drive. though most of the time the malfunctioning of a storage device isn't due to the isolator material, but due to some other factor, ... there is one advice i can give you. which is to never try to save money on storage devices, seriously don't. cause i've heard people say &quot;ooh look a 500 gb hard drive for only 50 euro !&quot;, but when you read online forums about those hard drives, you're more likely to find hundreds of topics listing failures and malfunctions, etc ... i myself have been using packard bell hard drives for quite some time now and they're very easy to use and hardly ever malfunction. if you are keen on having a good hard drive, i'd advice you to spend a couple 100 extra and buy a solid state disk. they're the best of the best out there and are a lot faster.
also keep in mind if you're using an external harddrive to backup your files (drive image photos etc) that if it's powered all the time and connected to your pc, it's no longer a backup device and is subject to fail at the most inopportune time. a client stored 2 years of pictures on an external harddrive (only location) and found out it would cost $2000 for the mfg. to recover the data after the usb interface failed. always store your critical data in multiple separate locations.
mine only lasted a year. lost a ton of audio files. i think it overheated.
as soon as i learned of the firmware problem on the 7200.11 drives, the life expectancy of those drives became zero. all servers were in raid 1 format, so i gradually replaced one channel and eventually the other with western digital black drives with 5 yr warranties.
i think you meant to say the opposite: the life of a hard drive is inversely proportional to the amount of really important stuff you have (in other words, the more important the stuff, the shorter the life seems to be).
i have been using external ide and of late esata flavors for some years. i have also gone the diy by putting drives in aftermarket enclosures (usually after using acronis true image to migrate the os and other info to a larger hd). i put the old drive in the aftermarket enclosure. currently, i'm spinning about 2.75 gb on my primary ws, with only 400gb in the case, the rest external. my observations: 1. purpose built externals have much longer life than diy externals. 2. 3.5&quot; at any rpm lasts longer than 2.5&quot; laptop style hd's 3. speed, in order of decreasing performance: esata, firewire (1600, 800, 400), usb 2.0, usb 1.1 4. brand / initial quality-warranty / price make a difference. 5. use your favorite search engine to check the quality technical sites (e.g. cnet.com) *before* buying new, or when it gets &quot;sick&quot;. 6. handling - the drive you cart around from place to place doesn't last as long as one that just sits with the system. 7. ventilation and heating matter. hotter = less. built in fan in case generally equals larger. (btw, a small fan blowing across enclosures without fans does keep the temp lower...) 8. a good reference & utility site like speedfan  is invaluable. they also have an extended s.m.a.r.t comparison diagnostics feature. just my $0.02 worth. /s/ former big iron guy
i have had my little dell since 2003 but also i keep upgrading things. i have to tell you if this little puter quit's tomorrow i didn't waste a dime that i have put into. i am a power user;(grahic design) would trade my little desktop for anything you could offer me to this day, new and in box. my computer has been very good to me of course i am nice to my darling in return. upgrades and cleaning are not option here i do this quite often. thanks for the article, awesome. happy computing, take care and things will just keep on keeping on.
many external drives are standard ide or sata drives and all have a mtbf (mfr specs). most, with careful handling, should last much longer because they are used less than your internal drive. i prefer to do manual backups and leave the drive unplugged between backups. it will probably be around after i am gone.
several photographer friends use external drives to store their photography. once a drive is filled, it is placed upon a shelf for future retrieval. unused except for that moment of need. they are convinced that this procedure is safer than using cd / dvd media as backup. i am not educated in this field, however, it would seem reasonable that an item designed to spin, would actually fail in a much shorter run time after sitting idle for lengths of time. this therefore would actually mean that your external drive security would basically extend to the current drive being used. perhaps this is too far off topic. in real life i know 2 people whose total of 3 external drives have failed by simply sitting on the shelf, and definitely not due to hours run. any thoughts?
1quazzarr: that's only common sense!
ihave the same question.iam always use lacie hard drive for over 4 years ago.the quarantee ended before3 years,iam usually stored data,photo,music movies and backup data.what did you suggested?
i have found over many years of it work, that both internal and external drives can last for months or last for years. i have had brand new drives die within 1 year, yet have had others that have been in service for 6-7 years and have yet to even start to hum. that can be attributed to both manufacturing and operating conditions. modern drives seem to be much more durable and last considerably longer then those produced 5 years ago. they handle shock and temperature extremes rather well. i have several computers which operate in mechanical rooms that at certain times of the year have 100% relative humidity and temps ranging from 45 degrees to well over one hundred degrees with not a single failure. so it is a costly gamble. if you, like myself have gigabytes of personal photos, music and video files that are difficult or impossible to replace, then i would suggest backing up to more than one place. if you want greater protection, consider backing up your valuables to dvd's for greater security. personally, in addition to hard copies - i use network storage (d-link ds321 and wd mybooks are very cost effective) each consisting of dual drives which mirror each other for even greater security and reliability. the choice is yours, but with all of the options out there, there is no reason to ever say &quot;i should have backed up more often&quot;. once you say that, you know it's already too late.
all mechanical things will eventually wear - as in &quot;normal wear and tear&quot;. i like to think of it in terms of revolutions - whether it's a washing machine, power drill, or hard drive - the little bits and pieces only have so many revolutions of life before they eventually give out. getting a drive that knows when to stop spinning, or managing that cycle yourself by only connecting and powering up when you're performing a backup, will maximize the life of the machine. the counter argument is based on constant environment - powering up and down causes thermal variations - heat and cool - expand and contract - another factor in the life-cycle calculation.
anything that has moving parts, and even some things that don't, have what was referred to as &quot;mean time to failure&quot; or words to that effect. essentially, this means that anything with moving parts, from your egg timer to your car, will eventually wear out some part that will cause failure of either another part or parts, or just cause the entire machine to fail. this also means that a computer that is used 8 hours a day should last 3 times longer than a computer that is left on 24 hrs/day, unless it can slow down drive after long periods of non-use. sometimes it is easy to examine and determine the cause of the failure (e.g. a burnt-out spark plug or fuse). other times it is not so clear until you take the entire thing apart. the manufacturer used to (i have not checked in years) a brief statement in their computer specs about average time to failure, giving you something to compare along with prices. why pay $100 for a hard drive that will fail sooner than a similar drive which may not be that far apart in price? also remember, that one of the solutions for failed drives is to reformat the drive, destroying all the data on the disk that you could not remove. so remember to backup those backups!
i am the same. i use external hard drives a lot, images, video etc etc think along the lines &quot; if it can happen, then it will happen&quot;. assume that it will fail. as drives get bigger and the cost per gb reduces, its worth getting a new one now and again and copying everything to the new one. this can take quite a while, and there are different ways of doing it (drive imaging etc) but do it, you'll sleep better. just think about how you would feel if you lost it all. i use external drives purely for archiving and storage, they are not left running and attached to a pc for long periods of time. i transfer about every 2 years, or whenever a really good deal on a bigger drive comes along. one other thing, remember to securely wipe the old drive if you are disposing of it !
i've been running an external for 2-years and two internals for 12-years. in fact, i am about to retire my 12-year old computer, pull the drives and make them external drives for my new machine. my son did this already with his machines. he pulled the drives, put them in enclosures, bought a usb hub and now command them with his lap top. i rather have a drive rack instead of a bunch of wires running everywhere. like ben stated, alway turn off your machine when you are done. letting your machine run in idle waste energy and cost you money. last thing; you can read an old windows drive with an apple machine but you can not write to it without drive maintenance first....
as lily tomlin once said: &quot;whoever thought up the term 'quality control' believed that if we didn't control it, quality would get out of hand.&quot; your luck is obviously better than mine. i've never had an external hd last as long as yours. however, your asking this question -- for which i thank you profusely --produced a ton of great advice for prolonging the lives of hds. my thanks to all contributors. my own advice -- dead serious here -- is to have two external hds (different models from different manufacturers) at all times...chances of them both dying on you simultaneously are minimal. that's why i have two internal hds as well, with my most important data on both of them in addition to the externals. this external hd advice is costly, but a lot less so as prices have continued to drop over the years. finding a pc that can accept two internal hds isn't easy, but definitely worth the trouble. the rest of this post is a personal tale of woe, simply to show how unreliable any hd can be....those looking for more advice should stop here and read what other contributors have suggested. i knew i had bad karma with both internal hds when dell switched out over a dozen pairs -- all sata -- on my then brand-new desktop. nothing worked until they replaced them with the older, slower ata generation. thanks to a dell gold warranty purchased separately, it cost me nothing but time and angst. there's nothing inherently wrong with sata drives or their even faster children. dell just got a bad batch of them from the manufacturer. and i happened to get one after another from that bad batch. my guess is that -- with a few exceptions -- there's nothing inherently wrong with external hds either. but that didn't stop my string of bad luck since i've had even worse experiences with external hard drives from every major manufacturer. many only lasted 3 months then died, some without the &quot;click-click&quot; warning that failing externals are supposed to exhibit just before they die on you. for those who've gotten this far, again read the advice of others. it's bound to prolong your own life (via less stress) as well as of your hds. thanks again to cnet and all who contributed. may you and your hds live long and prosper.
spinrite is an outstanding program for hard drives. steve gibson is an amazingly talented individual in both software and computer security. it was with spinrite and cable swapping that i was able to determine that the hard drive issues with one recent client's machine were actually in the southbridge of the motherboard. if you are going to buy an external and want to know longevity, it's going to vary. drive lifetimes can vary. * read the reviews, especially those that actually test performance * treat it like an internal drive - pack it carefully when moving it * make sure it has good ventilation * once a year, back up the old data, clean the drive, and then reuse -- this will help keep the magnetic data bits chipper and active * like internal drives - run maintenance programs - defrag, but also a deeper maintenance like spinrite * like desktops, make sure your power is regulated to protect the electronics (via avr on ups; that's automatic voltage regulator on uninterruptable power supply) * back up to secondary source for important/unique information, such as dvd and/or secondary drive stored at secondary location * decide if you want to buy a &quot;prebuilt&quot; external drive, or buy a kit to convert an internal to external * consider the newer technology of the bubble-memory drives; more expensive, but no internal drive mechanism to fail down the road when it comes to drives - don't skimp on quality. i have run seagate and maxtor and wd drives. the caviar series of wd, for me, have been not particularly fast, but extremely reliable. speed is nice, but i'm willing to put that second to having it work reliably and for years. that same rule should also apply to external drives. drives that run faster also run hotter and wear out faster, and will need more cooling to maintain viability.
most hard drives have &quot;smart&quot; technology that can report read/write failures. as the drive error rate goes up the smart technology contionue to retry the request. but most utility don't read this information so it is usually useless informtion. however, i have used software (spinrite) that that can read this information. this software is mainly used for hard drive recovery but it may be help to evaluate whether a drive is having problems and detecting when the error rate is high, hopefully allowing someone to replace the drive before failure occurs. but it may be cheaper to just buy a new hard drive.
about honey,it will dry up and turn to sugar in time,now twinkie on the other hand will last for years and years,they say they can last for more than 50 years if keep in a cool dry place,now thats some life expectancy.the food will almost out live you lol.the food that will be around long after there is no other food options left.i could go on about the food shortage problems in the future,but i think we are all aware of the enviable,there will be no food due to globle warming,famine,drought and so on.the future is bleak,so enjoy what you have now. ~crazy dragon~
ben i want to buy an external hard drive, at this moment i don't owned one. would like to buy that same brand had worked for you. can that be possible? i respect you by not mentioning the bad brands. thanks
it's because we're concerned about losing our data. and that can be due to other reasons, such as fire, flood, and, most likely, theft. so put a backup drive in another location - if your computer is at home, keep a backup drive in a secure place at work, etc. swap it with another drive periodically. and of course, most theft occurs with laptops, so keeping a backup elsewhere is most important for those.
when buying any electronic devices always purchase well known established brands, such as sony, panasonic, rca, toshiba, etc. as it relates to the most reliable hdd manufacture, in my experience seagate, western digital, & to a point hitachi. i have a 40gb seagate in my desktop had that for bout 6 years, works great. also had a 60gb segate for my laptop, that survived a few falls, bout 4 years, smart data read all's good (had to do replace it, needed more room; 250gb wd) still use it as an external though.
well i've had western digital and seagate, and they both died on me. i recently bought a transcend - not a brand i'd heard of before but highly reviewed.
it's called, &quot;mean time before failure, or mtbf&quot;.
there is definately a life expecatncy on external hard drives. seagate make the best, in my opinion, and have a good track record. i would keep am external hard drive in operation for 5 years at best. some drives will fail in less time than that. if you have a 5 year old drive, i would buy a new external hard drive and backup all data on your present external hard drive, possibly to an internal hd until you can transfer over to the new external. failing that, hope your external hd keeps going until you get your new drive, and transfer immediatly all your files. if you have a dvd-rw, consider using that to back up your files to dvd as well. remember, redundant backups are better than no backups. if you can, use external online storage for your files, especially photos, videos, and text files. i use megaupload to store my video files, and while i have a premium account, its not neccesary. the free account will allow up to 90 days of storage before they delete the files, allowing you some breathing space. i have found that the seagate freeagent 1.5tb external hard drive has the longest warranty, 5 years, so if it fails within this time, you can at least get another.
you said so yourself, transcend has a good track record!
are the tb drives reliable?????? a simple answer please. yes i know all things wear out or break down over time, what i need to know is are the tb drives worse than other size drives or the same or better as far as reliablility is concerned. thats all i want to know. i need to back up files and want the biggest drive i can get because i have a crap load of files and stuff i want to keep and save.
i'm not sure there is a simple answer. last year i purchased 10 1tb drives to augment my 60 hd farm. so far 4 have failed within the year. prior to the 1tb drives i purchased my largest drive was a 500gb (i have several of these). i'll be moving to the 2tb drives early next year but my biggest suggestions are (1) buy the drives with the longest warranty (some have 5 years) (2) backup, backup, backup (3) make sure the drives are running cool (i try to keep my drives below 90 degrees) very few external enclosures will keep your drives cool. i currently have 10 3.5&quot; drives in my tower, i cut the heck out of the front and installed 3 120mm fans (pushing air across all drives) and one 120mm fan in the back (pulling air out of the case). i have a friend that uses nothing but 2.5&quot; drives and he has very low drive failure. btw out of my 60 hd farm i lost 6 drives.
the answer is that no drive, new or old is reliable and should never, never, ever contain your only copy of data that is important to you. if you want to keep your data safe you need to maintain multiple backups of the same data on seperate media.
give us your opinion why, and which brands you avoid- that is the information we are looking for.
so, we should look for an official cnet review of a five or ten year old product to know if a critical component is reliable?? if a company puts out &quot;dogs,&quot; why not simply publicize which products correspond to &quot;dogs&quot; thereby intensifying the competition, serving the consumer, and validating the so called free enterprise system cherished by so many? tell us what would happen if you divulged your secret information gleaned by so many years of experience, information which you are insisting we learn as you did, the hard way. or, simply use a pen name to give you the courage required to help your constituency. peter b. metcalf kensington, ca
dafydd.
the only duds were self inflicted by folk dropping the drive. you will encounter folk that say &quot;i didn't drop it far or hard&quot; but the damage is done. bob
