hey all, i've purchased an atlon 1.6 ghz 256mb ram, everything was running smoothly on it however each time i installed a game, when i played it i sometimes receiced some reboots, this was starting to become a concern and a bother cause 20 min on your game the computer reboot at random times, i though maybe it was because i overclocked my cpu so i went in the bios and reset everything in default, now when my pc boots up again, it will allways reboot before hitting to windowsxp and on occasions when i hit delete to go back to bios it reboots, if i leave the computer on it will keep on doing a cycle reboot and ask me to run on safe more or normal mode. i even tried to re - image my pc, as soon as it goes to boot to the cd-rom it reboots. could it be the hard drive corrupt ( i don't know) could it be the ram stick ( i don't know) could it be my system board ( i don't know) i am clueless on what to do, like i said it was rebooting on games before and now it freaks out and reboots until i turn it off. i have no clue why its doing this however i got a blue screen last time, i will post the update tomorrow about it.
you left out some big clues. 1. the name of the game. 2. if you checked with the game maker for patches. 3. the overclocked cpu can lead to heat issues and failing motherboard capacitors. did you look for bulging, leaking motherboard capacitors? 4. games tend to make big demands on the system. an inventory of the machine is needed, the power supply watts and versions of video driver, motherboard driver, and more. generic advice. a. big power supplies. try 450 watts. b. lots of cooling. try it with the case cover off. c. no parasites. read  d. blue screen? after a,b and c are dealt with, check the event viewer for clues. remember that overheated cpus, undersized power supplies give random failures and i won't help you with events until the machine has proper power and cooling. bob
it can't be the heat, it will crash 1 min after turning the computer on. its been 4 days it hasn't rebooted on me, now it freezes the computer and the mouse until i reboot the computer. games, doesn't matter cause it does it on windows xp and isn't related to games. i am using spybot on every startup, if theres some it is removed. i took all peices of hardware on the computer like my graphic card, ect .. out of my machine, cleaned the dust out of it and readded the cards also my ram stick was moved on a different slot on my mother board. powered on the computer will log in and as soon as everything loads up, and i start to open stuff up it will freeze.
it's a visual inspection and typical cause of your issue. 1. bad caps -&gt;  2. it can be heat. run without the cover until it's fixed. let's make sure. 3. the bios must be at defaults and no overclocking. you overclock, you live with it. 4. what's the power supply rating and how old is it? bob
hey budy. i have had the same problem as of a week ago. i tried everything finally me and my dad took my pc to the store and they said it was the out of date processor. screw them. i took it outside with an air can and sprayed tons of dust off, then i kept the tempurature in my room cold, and i put in two more 256 memory sticks. i dont know what fixed it but try that and if its still screwed then i feel realy bad because i hated my comp when it did that. now i am playing games like call of duty, at 1280 x 1024 all turned up. i havent crashed since then and i have been trying to make it crash just to see if it will, and it wont.
forgot to mention i also have that same processor . 1.6 amd
yea its my memory, i get tons of errors using memcheck on a dos bootable. it has to be the ram.
