please help!!!! my pc keeps re-booting and i couldn't resolve this. i just got my pc motherboad upgraded with the following: abit nf7-s (nforce2/agp8x/ddr400/sata/raid/1394/lan) amd mb and athlon xp3000+ 512mb ddr400 and it's using an old video card and ide 40gb hard disk: innovision/inno3d tornado geforce2 mx400 (64mb) the system is running on win xp pro. sometimes, it will re-boot after loading the personal settings. and sometimes, it reboot before seeing the window setup page. what could be the possible problem? anyone can help? thanks.
if it keeps rebooting go to my computer and do a right click then properties then advanced then setting under startup and recover then under system failure unclick automatically restart. normally its a driver problem so now you might get a blue screen and it should tell you what problem you have hope it helps germansal
can you get to your desktop at all? does your system sometimes freeze up? what were you doing when the problem first started or was it this way as soon as the upgrade. if there are not any freeze ups i don't believe its a driver problem. i think it could be a memory problem or cpu problem. go into your bios and find your memory readings. make sure they read right. look at your clock speed and see if it is right and also check the tempature of your cpu. it could be running too hot. it may also be not seated right. the heatsink and fan may not be seated right. did you reload xp after the upgrade? did you download sp2? give more details. it could be a lot of things. maybe even a virus. skip
hi skip thanks for responding. sometimes, it keeps re-booting so many times that i didn't even get to see the desktop at all. the system freeze up at detecting the ide hard disk when before this, there is a series of re-boots. it will also re-boot itself when i am on the desktop. when this happens, i will be prompt to start up at safe mode. and it re-boot itself even when i try starting it up at safe mode. after the upgrade, i formatted my old 3 yr old 40gb ide hard disk which is running on win98. and install xp with sp1. i have not downloaded sp2. i had installed a 15-day trial norton antivirus 2005 to temporarily prevent any virus infection. when you say the heatsink and fan may not be seated right, do you mean that it is not installed properly on the motherboard? would it be any case of irq conflict? i notice that 2 or 3 drivers are sharing 1 irq or memory address. thanks.
hi germansal thanks for responding. yes, i tried what you had recommended and the following message is prompted. &quot; a problem has been detected and windows has been shut down to prevent damage to your computer. if this is the first time you've seen this stop error screen, restart your computer. if this screen appears again, follow these steps: check to be sure you have adequate disk space. if a driver is identified in the stop message, disable the driver or check with the manufacturer for driver updates. try changing video adapters. check with your hardware vendor for any bios updates. disable bios memory options such as caching or shadowing. if you need to use safe mode to remove or disable components, restart your computer, press f8 to select advanced startup options, and then select safe mode. technical information: *** stop: 0x0000008e (0xc0000005, 0x8053dd91, 0xf897cf74, 0x00000000) beginning dump of physical memory physical memory dump complete. contact your system administrator or technical support group for further assistance. &quot; i don't quite understand what is to be done from the above message. could you advice? thanks a million. gl
try going to the bios and hit default setting and see if that works. to get into the bios hit the f1 or the del button after you turn the computer on. but be carefully the bios is nothing to play around with if you don't know what you are doing good luck
i think were both on the right track. has this been a problem ever since your upgrade? if so, i still believe it is heat related. it will also give you a blue screen to protect your computer. try what gl said and see if it works but, in addition to delete or f1 to get in your bios, i have seen some computers use f2 and all the way up to f8. you can also try to clear your bios memory by manually changing your jumper on the motherboard. refer to this in your motherboard manual. we'll get to the bottom of this. mean while i will try to look up your error number on the net. talk to you soon. skip
your fix may be in sp2. from what i have read. you can try it and if it doesn't work you can uninstall it. if your system will let you get that far without rebooting. try to reset bios first, then try removing memory modules if you have more than one. if you have 2 or 3, take them all out and try putting one in at a time in the first slot and try booting with one. do this with each one. if thats not the problem try to uninstall your video driver and reinstall it or look for an upgrade at the manufacturer. if that doesn't work try to get service pack 2. if that doesn't work open a side panel and try blowing a fan inside while booting. if that doesn't work i would wipe the drive clean and reinstall xp. sometimes an install doesn't always setup properly. let me know what you have tried. skip
hi skip as i am not familiar with the resetting of bios, i have not done the bios reset. however, i had attempted to remove the memory modules and replacing it back 1 at a time. it continues to give the same problem. next, i uninstall the video driver and reinstall an upgraded one. this time the problem seems to have gone off for a while. i can use it for 2 days. this problem seems to resurface under a particular user account. (note: i had created a 3 user accounts) the other 2 seems to work fine. i had disable the automatic re-boot, and a blue screen is presented with the problem messages. one of the recommendation is to get the windows update. and i am doing it now. i will continue to monitor if the problem still persists. afterwhich, i will perhaps install xp sp2. and hopefully it could solve the problem. i will keep you posted of the development. by the way, i had another piece of the 40gb hard disk, and i had tried to reinstall xp. and it just hang and give me a blue screen with similar error messages. hence, i don't think reinstalling would help. and thank you for taking the trouble to give me all the advice. gl
if you tried to install windows xp on another partition and, it wouldn't load then either your bios needs to be reset or more likely, i think the problem is where i started in the beginning. the processor or heatsink fan is not seated right or you are over heating. there is a cmos jumper on your mainboard. your motherboard i mean. it will be shown in the book that came with the board. there are 3 pins with a plastic cap over 2 of the pins. the cap is the jumper. it is small. refer to your book to see where exactly it is on the board. all you need to do is move the cap to pins 1 and 2 for a few seconds and then put the cap back on pins 2 and 3. turn off your power to your computer but don't unplug from the back. the 3 pronged plug is a ground. also hold on to the metal frame with one hand to stay grounded. this prevents static which can harm your computer. after you try sp2 try to reset cmos which is part of your bios. i want you to do this to reset the configurations mostly for your memory. reseting the cmos setting by the jumper will clear the bios memory and set it to default. hope you can understand this. if not let me know and we will take it one step at a time. skip
hi skip i tried updating win sp2, but it could not be updated. not sure what is the problem preventing it. next, i proceed to resetting the cmos, following the instruction stated on the mainboard's installation guidebook. after this, the problem still persists. do you have any idea what these 2 messages mean? 1. page_fault_in_nonpaged_area 2. irql_not_less_or_equal these appear on the blue screen how do i check if the processor is overheating? thanks. gl
what is the power supply?
ok, this takes us back to, probably a driver error or possibly a program you have that is not compatible with xp. what is the exact error code? is it the same error code as before? stop: 0x0000008e (0xc0000005, 0x8053dd91, 0xf897cf74, 0x00000000)? if so when you updated your video driver did you uninstall the driver first?
the power supply is 400w. i got it upgraded together with the motherboard, cpu and ram.
hi there buddy , appears that u r struggling with this problem for quite some time.i have an exactly similar problem on a compaq presario 700 laptop.here's what i did : a. format the drive b. install winxp pro c. after the install , maintain only one account d. do not install any drivers at this stage - let the system run only on the native windows drivers. e. go to regedit , to the following key - hkey_local_machine\software\microsoft\windows nt\currentversion\winlogon f. right click on the right pane and click on string value g. rename this `new string value' to msgina h. right click on msgina , click on modify i. enter the value `c:\windows\system32\msgina.dll j. restart load the chipset driver load the audio driver after all drivers are loaded , load the video driver if this does not correct your problem , nothing on earth will. however , on the positive side , i have noticed this problem on quite a few amd machines , but hardly never on an intel machine - there might be a problem of overheating of the cpu also.
i have an older emachine with xp home that is continuously rebooting. it has the config below. i searched for pcdsm30.sys on the net but didn't find any references. does anyone know which component is failing? intel celeron 256 mb 40 gb hard drive (recently upgraded from original 20 gb) cn810 motherboard intel 82810 graphics and memory controller hub intel 828101aa i/o controller hub integrated audio controller in intel fw828101aa cs4299 crystal clear soundfusion audio codec '97 phoenix bios blue screens at stop 0x000000be, (0xf40c1052,0x0e611121,0xf96e4a94,0x0000000b) pcdsm30.sys address f40c1052 base at f40c0000 date stamp 36f89e04
