soundblaster live 24-bit eax console - device supported not detected i just installed a soundblaster live 24-bit 7.1 sound card and logitech x-530 5.1 speakers in my 2ghz celeron 512 mb ram xp home emachines which came with avance audio apapter on the mboard. i get good sound through the front speakers and subwoofer, but nothing through the rear and center speakers. when i try to run the creative mediasource player's eax console through the tools menu in organizer (there is no green eax button), which i believe is what i need to turn on surround sound for this card, i just get an error message, ''the audio device supported by this application is not detected. the application will exit''. and it won't run. i also installed the dfx master pack of audio plug-ins for winamp, win media player and others, but when i try to use them i get no sound at all in those programs. when i originally ran the install program for the soundblaster live, as it started i got this error:'' setup could not detect any soundblaster live! 24-bit on your system. please ensure that you soundblaster hardware is properly installed before running this setup program. setup will now exit''. but then the install runs as if normal and ends with: ''congratulations! your sound card was successfully installed'' then i reboot as asked. i've done this 3 times ending up with the same problem i described above. i've checked the card position and the speaker wires several times and they all are correct. the sb live is thedefault sound card on the system. can you please help? ------ droidbot7000
the motherboard drivers needed to be installed first. it's a mess. bob
what do you mean by ''the motherboard drivers needed to be installed first''? which ones and where are they and how?here's another aspect of my case. after posting, i took the sb card back to best buy and exchanged it for another same card, thinking it could be bad. i swapped pci slots with a modem and rebooted. after xp started i saw detection of &quot;new&quot; modem and &quot;new&quot; sb live 24-bit sound card going on in the system tray. then an error box came up: &quot;the installshield engine (ikernel.exe) could not be installed. the system cannot find the file specified&quot;. then xp abruptly turned off the computer and restarted. this happened 4 times. then i took out all the cards and it rebooted ok. in control panel, the default audio device is now the original avance ac97 audio and the sb live isn't even listed. i never uninstalled anything that came with the card. i installed a new maxtor 80gb drive to replace my old 40gb that came with the machine. i used the maxblast software to copy the entire old drive to make the new one the c: boot drive. it boots and everything is as it was, except a few programs thought they weren't registered or their trial period was over. the &quot;unregistered&quot; ones worked ok after i entered the reg. no's. this has me wondering if the maxblast program overlooked or corrupted a few files, probably hidden ones. or a certain folder where all these reside. i left my old drive intact with all the files on it in the machine as e: i relabelled the c: drive before the sound card installation. it was fornerly &quot;local disk&quot;. could that be a problem for programs looking for certain files? i just did a search for ikernel.exe it is in the same path on both drives, &quot;\program files\common files\installshield\engine\6\intel 32&quot;. i am holding off doing anything else until i get answers to some questions, like: a. should i uninstall all the creative software? what special thing should i do with the device drivers etc? b. the install instructions said to hit cancel if xp asked for the device drivers. should i run their install again anyway? c. could the &quot;missing&quot; ikernel be why the eax app is malfunctioning? d. i did a system restore save point just before switching hard drives. should i restore it first? e. should i get a different card? would that really help? after all, i just wanted to listen to some music! ------ droidbot7000
if you get a creative card, go straight to creative.com and get the upgraded software. the stuff they sent with the card was junk and cost me a day trying this and that!
