i just downloaded and used `speed fan' because i was concerned with the heat rising from the top of my rig. a blackbird 002 01b. the cpu and other temps are at 41c. the ram is at 75c. the ram is not liquid cooled and i believe this could be a fatal flaw in the design. any ideas on this kind of thing? seems like hp/voodoo did not quite get their homework right. i could put the dominator ram fans in there, but this should be hp`s responsability. thanks
the system monitoring s/w is only as accurate as the sensor is. in most cases only those with sensors give a approx. value. last, i recall no memory has sensors attached, so its getting that info 2nd hand. next, the system is running and that being the case, its doing it job. if you want to cool it better then that's your option to do so. what you should do if it isn't already to route harnesses/wiring/cables to reduce airflow interference, thus be cooler. as for hpvoodoo systems not doing their job, that's debatable, but i'm not here for that. if it running ok, don't fix it, imho, except of course add cooling if you want. tada -----willy
the ram temp is accurate....infrared thermometer would be easiest. if the temp as indicated is accurate ... then i'd check the bios for speed and voltage settings. hoping that will solve the problem. let us know. vapcmd
i was a little hasty in my `prognosis'. however; i have had nothing but problems with this `bird'. over 4 mos. in the shop. emails galore. one tech says mobo, another say not. i have switched the gpus, (at the prompt from the tech). one of the fans, southbridge or north. i`m not sure, keeps falling off. i`m supposed to get a new one delivered but i still wait. i`m going to get a digital pyrometer and check the temps again. ps. after shut down, the usb ports on the `bird' are allways `live'. is this normal? every pc i own, have owned and including friends pcs. none of them have power to the usb ports when the rig is off. i got this rig last nov. this is not right. thanks.
gone to get a digital pyrometer as soon as i can. i still dont think 79c is normal operating temp. trying to get answers reminds me of `davinci code'.
why it's important to make sure the reading is accurate before going further. good luck getting the problems straightened out...and keep us posted. vapcmd ps...here's a link to a good infrared thermometer that can be used to troubleshoot pc or non-pc heat related problems.
thanks for the link. i wish i still had my fluke multimeter. $900 went for a walk. i`ll let you know.
sorry for the delayed reply... well any fan that falls off isn't a good thing. plus, even before it falls, it maybe not 100% seated or unsettling factor to keep it where it suppose to be. these extreme machines just don't like losing any cooling and the results will be as you find. certainly, that has to be corrected. the plain fact is, if you can further cool the system, it will be a plus for you. add extra fans or switch over to water cooling, etc.. usb ports shouldn't be active in that actually still do something in any big way. but, they are still powered, the leds you see lit probably are just a minor side effect of keeping the system &quot;at the ready&quot; maybe from a wake-up/hibernate&quot; state or awaiting a hot key from the kybd., that's a power setting issue(or bios), you may want to review that. however, its not going to hurt the system and in some cases you may do more harm delving into all those power setting. if you like, keep it simple place system on a power strip(surge protection?) and when done, just switch it off provided you did a proper shutdown. tada -----willy
