im trying to delete limewire of my pc, iv just uninstalled it of my computer from add/remove programs but it still pops up on my pc but it doesnt load becuase it says the file is invalid or corrupt... so plese either send me a step my step guide to theotsa10@aol.com or reply to this
robot email harvesters collect those. i can delete this discussion if requested since i can't edit it. also, you can try scanning with ewido (google.com) to see if it tosses it out. bob
go into the program files and delete the entyre file, after removing the program from a/r programs. limewire sticks some heavy duty trackin' cookies in there. run scandisk to clean it all up, and run trackin' cookie antispy. that should do it. been there - done -that. limewire is nothin' but trouble. i've had to clean out systems that were loaded down with spyware, viruses, and junk that rides along with those downloads. tell the kids to use something else.
whats better than limewire?
dunno. i hear shareaza kicks ass while few others say bearshare is neat. i've never used either of them, but if a lot of ppl swear by those, you could bet it's a solid choice. else, try reading reviews on these apps. a lot ppl mention that kazaa/lite used to reign supreme back 3 years ago but it's been usurped. afaik, limewire isn't horrendous, but it isn't good either.
at the very least, use variations in your email address to fool the automatic tools, but not viewers, such as.......... ampers_johndaughter at gmail dot com ampers_johndaughter-nospam@gmail.com one guy even resorted to military phoenetics, using that for each letter in his email address like so alpha mike papp echo romeo sierra _ juliet osacar halo november dog alpha ...... and so on
limewire is the only p2p software i have found that doesnt have spyware. bearshare does. good luck with that.
so many wiped out machines due to limeware. if it wasn't for them, &quot;tech&quot; would not bought a new car this year. for the sake of our tech please install limeware more. bob
in terms of p2p limewire is unparalleled in virus protection and keeping corrupted files to a minimum on the network. i get sick of people making up lies to smear the name of popular p2p programs. your 'tech' doesn't get bonuses from fixing a lot of machines, if he got a new car it had nothing to do with limewire. stfu, you are retarded. i don't know of any business that allows the usage of p2p software in the workplace. furthermore, the vast majority of viruses and malware are distributed via email and not through the p2p networks. your own personal email account is the biggest source of malware and viruses; whereas p2p networks are not only too slow to make mass distribution of malicious software feasible, the nature of p2p by definition prevents such files from becoming widely spread. upon downloading corrupt files, users simply delete them from their drives, thus no longer 'sharing' them and effectively removing them from the network. people who manage to download malware over p2p networks are the most inept computer users on the face of the planet. they have to somehow manage to find malicious files which are typically buried under millions of copies of good files which are being freely shared. then download the file, completely ignore the repeated warnings from limeware about downloading exe files, then ignore the warnings from their own anti virus software after the download is complete, and then intentionally double-click on the file and initiate the installation. it is an ineffective means to distribute malicious files. the most dangerous stuff on the internet is the stuff bombarding your email inbox on a daily basis, as all it takes is for you to accidentally open one email to allow it to render its active content and begin running malicious scripts on your machine. if these people weren't messing up their machines with limewire, they'd probably be preoccupied trying to put pop-tarts in their dvd player.
yeah, i would not use bearshare. a guest used it like, once, on my pc and i've been finding traces of spyware and the program itself ever since. most p2p programs are not much better, whether it's the program itself or the stuff you download.
(on the pop tarts.)
anyone know how to copy to a dvd? movies/tv can only be seen on computer or copied to a cd. i'd like to see it on tv via dvd or cd. parnello loggy32@yahoo.com
off topic to an old discussion.
