when i try to burn several audio files it manages one then the burn process aborts and the cd is ejected. it is ok when burning data cds. i am using nero 5. the cd writer was installed with a dvd drive too - i have tried the cd writer on its own after removing the dvd drive but this hasn't made any difference. the cd writer is an acer 24x10x 40x crw 2410a with seamless link and meets the minimum spec for the pc. the pc is a socket 7 240mhz, with 128mb ram and a 6gb hdd running winse. the cd writer system requirements are: 200mhz or above cpu; 64mb or above ram; windows 95/98/me/2000 or nt. the cd writer is set as the slave on hard drive cable. according to the manula it can be master or slave.
what changed from when this worked? i do see &quot;issues&quot; that at 240mhz, you can't play a dvd without a hardware card and you certainly can't burn an audio cd at top speed of the machine create wav files on the fly. you'll have to find the settings to try 1x or 2x record speeds and see if you can have the nero software create the cd image before burning rather than try to do more than one thing at a time. while your machine meets the specs, you won't be told (except by others) that you can't do all the nifty stuff. bob
there can be many reasons for this type of problem, the most likely are that you need updates to your software. have you gone to the nero web site to see if they have any software updates for that version? that might fix it. if not you should consider the roxio software. if a software update doesn't do it, you may have registry corruption that is causing this problem, unfortunately the only fix for that type of problem is a rebuild of the system. a system as old as yours is very likely to have been corrupted over time and that can cause the types of issues you have, as well as others.
i have also seen this type of problem when more than one cd burning program is loaded on some machines. they seem to cancel each other out. i got the feeling from your post(maybe wrongly) that you just added a dvd player or burner and it added cd creator. along with the gurus suggestions, it's something to consider. good luck. chuck p.s. there is a (not new) upgrade for nero 5.5
