first of all, i want to thanks all the people who answered my questions, for taking so much patient to do it, i know that some questions are a little stupid, but what can i do?? :$ well, after that. i want to know one thing... i have a case with the option to install a cooling fan, connected to the mobo, (3 pins conector). but i don`t know if it`s necessary. the specs of my computer are: amd semprom 2800+ pcchips mobo, k7 863g 512 ram (1 ddr, 333mhz), 128mb. asus video card, geforce 5200fx (without cooling fan) lg cd-rw unit. western digital hd 7200rpm, (80gb). sound blaster live, audio card. most days (5 days per week) i leave it, on all night, and part of the day, downloading some music or games. so, do i need a heat extractor? or should i leave it, just like it`s. thanks a lot! bye
i guess you can, since u leave it on for so long. but i think it depends on the temperature it runs at.
understand that &quot;airflow&quot; is important to maintain a well cooled system. its always good insurance to have adqueate yet properly placed fan(s) and/or water cooling system. the whole purpose to keep componets within operating specs and prevent any heat related stress, otherwise things start to go downhill. if you have the option to install yet another fan via the mtrbd. or directly to power harness plug, do it, its cheap insurance. beware, any power demands of any kind to add up, so a decent power supply is a must. fyi - i have a 5200nvida chipset as well, but it does use a fan to keep it cool. i'm sure yours uses a rather large heatsink. thus, it needs a well cooled system case to help control its own &quot;passive cooling&quot;, ok. enjoy -----willy
dear friend, first of all buy a 350 wt supply device for your case. secondly it is absolutely necessary to have two fans for your case because your behaviour towards your computer is generally characterized as heavy duty. you do not have to bother the mobo. do not forget that the mobo needs energy to supply all the system . and finally, a ups device is essential. that's all. bye !!! charidimos.
im heavy duty.... havent turned my comp off in 23 days. hasnt been off for any reason except to travlle to a lan party in 6 months. heh.
generally speaking, it never hurts to have extra cooling. (i've never heard of a computer freezing to death, have you?) however, if the heat sink is good enough, sometimes a fan isn't necessary...it might just end up blowing a lot of dust around.
