hi, we've just got a new macbook and have been trying for days to get it to connect to our router. here are the details: it's a netgear dg834gv3 with the latest v4.01.40 firmware. we've tried (amongst others) wpa-psk with a network key composed of 19 letters/numbers. we've tried broadcasting it on channels 09, 11 and 06. &quot;enable wireless access point&quot;, &quot;allow broadcast of name (ssid)&quot; are checked and &quot;wireless isolation&quot; is unchecked. it is set to mode &quot;g & b&quot;. the wireless station access list is turned off so anyone can join the network, provided they have the passphrase. the macbook is the latest 2.1 ghz intel core 2 duo with os x 10.5.6. it has been serviced. the macbook will connect to other wireless networks and our netgear will connect to all our other devises but not the macbook. it insists that the password is invalid when we select our network - either that or it just says &quot;connection timeout&quot;. we've tried disabling the netgear security altogether but the macbook just asks for a wep password. please, can anyone help us? i have no idea why it won't connect.
why i ask is someone did that and promptly began asking questions not unlike yours. bob
there is no firewall set on the macbook, that i know of. the security settings preference pane is set to &quot;allow all incoming connections&quot;.
also try our mac os forum since we have someone that is very apple there. sadly i'd call the router maker and lodge your complaint fast. bob
but sadly that's not an option, netgear have nightmare callcentres - indian phone operators, premium call costs, long holds, making one set up an account so that they can send you promotional e-mails - the works. i think it would cost more than the price of the router.
my calls have been not so bad. here, everything works fine but i don't have that model of router. shame. bob
this is a regular complaint -- but the upside is that their user forum at  has to be pretty good and one of the moderators uses macs. incidentally i've had problems connecting a friend's mac laptop and desktop to two different routers (zoom 802.11b, d-link 802.11g). the laptop would connect to the zoom but not the dlink and the desktop would only connect to the dlink. maybe something to do with wep vs wpa -- we spent a week on this and gave up on the laptop. i suspect apple want you to buy their router.
oh my god, i may actually have the answer to this one (one of the 7 signs i think). i recently set up a netgear wireless with my macbook and was having the same issue... i was told to set the vpi# to 0 (zero) vci# to 32 bam it was working. just a thought. hope this is right. cjg
i haven't tried connecting the macbook to it, but when i applied your settings the computer the netgear is wired to could not load any web pages. the original setting are: multiplexing method: vc-based vpi: 0 vci: 38 dsl mode: auto (multi-mode) are these alright?
i have a similar issue with an ibook g3 not connecting or accepting my wpa password for my wireless network. all other computers in my home accept it but this one and i have other macs. i am not familiar with vpi & vci could you be a little clearer for me and walk me through what you are suggesting so i can try to fix? thank you!
like i said, it was kind of a miracle that i had that much of an answer, i think it will take a call to netgear to get you the rest of the way, sorry. problem seemed familiar so tossed out what solved it for me. cjg
