i have a netgear wireless router model wgr614v4. recently i signed up for sbc dsl service, the modem that comes with the plan has 1 lan port, quite ridiculous was my first thought. anyway, i want to connect my wireless router (which also has 4 lan ports) to the dsl modem, and make the wireless router a dhcp server (as a desktop has to connect somewhere, right?). my current planned setup (which has not worked) is telephone cable from wall to dsl modem - cat5 cable from dsl modem to netgear wan port - cat5 cable from netgear port 4 (main configuration port) to desktop computer. any ideas on what settings i need to change would be much appreciated. les
and connection to fail this maybe your problem.
netgear's bridge mode did not work for me. i tried all the fixes netgear posted and none of them work, i sent the wgr614 back.
i tried a different solution. first, connected the computer directly to dsl modem, i disabled the pppoe feature from the dsl modem, enabled bridge mode. then i connected the dsl modem to negear router, and from the router to the computer, and enabled the pppoe sign-in feature in the wgr614 into dsl. at the log-in for pppoe in the wgr61 screen, put in your sbc id and password (sbc id is something like twocats@sbcglobal.net). the wgr614 was still set to be the dhcp server. i enabled the dhcp feature. keep in mind that after making each connection, i waited for some time (about 2 minutes). after restarting the pc...it should take a few moments to start working. when you go to 192.168.0.1 address it should go directly to the netgear router's admin page if you need to make any changes. it worked for me. ljs
this kinda normal for sbc yahoo. you need to connect with a pc first to setup the account, then logoff hookup the router and configure the router with your account info and then have the router logon to sbc. also about once every 3 months or so i can seem to get a conection. so i logon with a pc then logoff and hookup the router again and it's fine. john
