every time i play a game either need for speed carbon collectors edition or age of empire's 2 my computer restarts after 30 minutes or so, its getting to be a pain, i have a amd 3000+, 2.07 ghz, 1 gb of ram, radeon 9800se, windows xp service pack 2 (build 2600), i don't know what to do anymore if someone has any tips in now to fix it i would appreciate it, thanks in advance....
try a simple test. remove the case cover. if it lasts longer proceed to the usual dust bunny and lint removals from heatsinks and replace any vibrating or broken fans. bob
thanks for the info bob, i cleaned all the dust and made sure nothing was loose but it still crashed, this time it crashed after about an hour or so, i know theres an issue with carbon, theres articles on the game crashing for people so that could be a game problem until the patch comes out, but age of empire has worked for me perfect in the past , don't know why it keeps on crashing
now find a fan to point at the open machine. does it run even longer? if so, there can be a cooling issue or some part has become heat sensitive. there are also cases where the power supply has aged and we fit a new bigger one. but the exact item to replace hasn't been found yet. try a big fan... bob
i developed a problem a while back with an old amd duron that i had. whenever i played intensive games, shut down and turned the computer on afterwards, the power lights would go on but it wouldn't boot up. i took it to the tech shop and it turns out that the fan/heatsink i had was inadequate to properly cool the processor. the fact that the games run for half an hour and simply crash really makes me think it is a heating issue.
yesterday i was using my computer then all of a sudden it restarted, i went to administrative tools/services i check there was an error details product: windows operating system event id: 7023 source: service control manager version: 5.0 component: system event log symbolic name: event_service_exit_failed message: the %1 service terminated with the following error: %2 i have no idea what this means, and if it is a heat issue, i need to pay a visit to a tech store.
varied to the point of meaningless. the only meaning i get from them is that the pc needs repair. sadly there are a lot of badly made pcs out there. some are assembled improperly without heatsink compound. (a favorite find of mine.) bob
