my desktop pc has two units of 256mb ddram - which was pretty good at the time the machine was built. but i'm thinking about upgrading, now that i could quadruple that amount of memory for probably $200. so my question is, what kind of performance increase can i reasonably expect for that kind of upgrade? i realize there are many factors in play here, but for those who have upgraded memory, have you found it to be a worthwhile expense? or should i wait until prices drop? just wondering if this is worth my while. thanks.
we took identical 2.4ghz p4 machines and ran a test. 1 had 512mb, the other was 1gb. a 6 hour video encoding took 5 minutes less on the machine with 1gb. to be fair we exchanged the memory sticks and reran the test. about 5 minute savings. for us, that was not enough payback. but then again, the bragging rights may be worth it? bob
if you typically have a lot of apps open or use memory intensive apps, additional memory can noticeably improve performance. when you have your usual apps open and you've been using them for awhile, open task manager (right click an empty area of the task bar), select the performance tab, and compare your commit charge:total and :peak to physical memory:total. (these figures are in kilobytes/kb; divide by 1024 to get megabytes/mb.) if your commit charge:total (how much memory you're consuming currently) is more than your physical memory:total, then i'd definitely recommend more ram since you're using all your ram and spilling over into the page file. if your commit charge:peak (the peak memory used since windows started) is extremely high compared to your commit charge:total and exceeds physical memory:total, then some software app you've used is very memory intensive (i.e.: a game, photoshop, custom business software, etc.). additional memory will speed up that app, but if you're satisfied with the app's performance or only use it occassionally, an upgrade may not be worth while. if you're wondering where your memory is going, look at the processes tab in task manager. click mem usage to sort. on my pc currently, ie (6 windows) is consuming about 100mb, firefox another 70mb, and acrobat reader another 65mb. even common every-day apps can munch ram.
