hi. today i just buy my western digital my book live 1tb network storage this is first time im using wd nas i successfully installed windows 7 x64 on my computer this week, but the computer sometimes loses contact with my wd 1tb book live nas(when trying to copy big file). when this happens, i restart the computer, and the drive usually reappears. i just bought this hard drive two days ago. instead of simply failing to recognize it, i sometimes get &quot;not responding&quot; errors when trying to open files. here the screen shot
my bet is that was not as successful. that is, many folk install windows without checking for drivers and more. that is, today who wants to figure all this out? what to do? ask the laptop's maker which drivers are required. bob
sory that was typo that should be ''i was successfully installed (western digital my book live wdbacg0010hch 1tb network attached storage)on windows 7 x64 that what i mean. i dont know the reason why i cant copy big file to my network storage but with my macbok its working
since the machine with the issue is a fresh install of windows 7, it's drivers may be what microsoft supplied. which most folk are learning (again) that we must find our drivers just like we have for over a decade. sorry but your link to mediafire is not one i can use. that site is too full of bad things for me to consider trying. -&gt; bottomline? find the laptop maker's page for drivers for this laptop and install the drivers they tell you for windows 7. bob
i did install all driver i can use it but only cant trasfer from my pc to network server. if i trasfer more than 10mb it will stop responding and need to restart the nas server.
sorry but since details such as make, model and what drivers you installed i'm left with not much to work with. we know that some nas do fail with windows 7 and then we see even more issues if the owner installs some windows live components. until the full details are known you may have to call wd and ask if they have any updates. bob
