i was djing a party last night when my computer dyed. i have had it for about 6 months and it is my 5th computer i have built. when the power button is hit the power supply turns on runs then fan and about 1 second later shuts off. there are leds on the motherboard that stay on. nothing internally has changed. i have: foxconn digitalife mother board intel quad core processor 800 watt psu 8800gts gpu 120gb 10k rpm hard drive by western digital 2(500) gb hard drives if more specifics are needed i can provide them if anyone has any clue as to what happened to my unit it would be greatly appreciated.
unplug all ide cables.
disconnect all drives. if it boots then or you can enter the bios, your psu has been overtaxed. your stuffed system generates alot heat and cause the psu to degrade and/or become unstable. the damage is probably already done, but check anyways. in such cases, swapping the psu is the way to go. hi-wattage generic labeled psus may not be stable over time as generic labels aren't reliable, regardless of specs. a good namebrand is costly but worth it over the life of the system. also, think added cooling for continued use. tada -----willy
i tried the psu (ocz 700w) and it does it with my other one as well. it is not anything to do with the ides since they were all unplugged. if the mother board is still showing leds that would lead to the cpu correct?
it powers up.
everything is removed from it except the cpu and the motherboard
sometimes you find it's the mounting.
if the mtrbd. led(one)is lit is only an indication of power present, a visible reminder to the users. if you have a set of leds, goto the support website(or manual) and locate what those leds means, what pattern may note a fault. removing the drives was an attempt to remove some load off the psu and possible drive problem if cause. also, you remove those as an issue and reduce the system. you can further reduce the system to only single ram and video and keybd. and mouse. if the problem persists, swap ram. if the problem still persists, you can remove cpu, ram, and only connect the mtrbd.. problem remains, you got a bad mtrbd., if it starts to beep away and fans remain on, possible bad cpu. install cpu and it should still beep but if it remains on, then add 1 ram stick. be sure to power off before doing so. reboot, find a usable ram combo or otherwise the bad ram or combo of ram. its very possible to have multiple problems. its important to understand, if a mtrbd. problem(or start to build another system) and you replace it, don't install a whole system again and boot-up. a 2ndary(old parts) problem will come back to crash or take down the system due to its limitations and/or cause limited service. since, you already got 5mo. out of it, it maybe heat related issues that degraded the componets and finally &quot;poof&quot; it went. that's why cooling is important and notice of shutdowns, reboots, or freezes is a sign of such an issue. tada -----willy
