hi all after a little help here, i have a msi k9n2gm motherboard one day while turning the system on via the power unit power switch at rear it crackled and then the system wouldn't turn on. the light on the power unit wouldn't illuminate and the fans failed to start. as such i was unable to test any of the systems. note that the power unit was checked and confirmed faulty however when i connected the new one up there was no power light on the board. power unit was good quality 'oz' one with several safeguards so im unsure where to go from here any ideas what to try next ? im hoping the 9850 phenom quadcore black edition & 2 x 2gb 800mhz ddr2 ram are still alive !!
its important the replacement psu is as capable as old one was or even better, wattage wise. of course all connections must be done and in proper place. if this has been done and it still refuses to work, you have a secondary problem. when the psu failed it *may have* taken down another device/component and refuses to boot or power-on. if hd or cd dreive, etc., replace and hope it continues to work. however, if the mtrbd. is zapped, then consider another to replace it. in most cases, fixing the mtrbd. won't be practical or becomes troublesome as time goes on, of course this depends on your repair abilities. if so, eliminate any device/compotent before installing on new mtrbd.. tada -----willy
thanks for the info there im just wondering if it will have damaged the cpu or ram. replacing the mb aint to much of a problem just worried about buying a new baord then having to do the cpu and possibly ram
remove *everything* on the mtrbd. leave only the spkr. attached. and assure the psu is connected. power-on, it should beep away in some form or fashion. if it doesn't then the mtrbd. is truly gone. if it does beep, then return the cpu and hsf, remount and test, it should still beep but in some pattern. connect video and so on, one item at a time and test each time for results and the beep pattern. the bios beep code will determine if or anything is related to missing device, etc., but it may not and that could be the problem area. if possible, test other devices elsewhere to verify them. also, take the time when everything is missing, to inspect closely the mtrbd. for blown, bulging, etc. &quot;bad caps&quot;, google for examples. tada -----willy
have you checked ram? sometimes this problem creates because of ram.
