sorry, i'm reposting my question here too, because it's related to my wireless card in notebook problem... i hope someone will be able to help me fix my problem... i have a compaq 2100 notebook. recently, i installed a d-link wireless card [airplus.g dwl-g630] and it was working fine. one day, i decided to see how will the connection work outside my appartment; at school. well, as soon as i inserted the d-link card, a msg popped up saying smt about windows, i cannot recall exactly what and seconds later the screen went blue with a long message about a recently installed drive etc. so, as i later found out, i had to go to the d-link website and install the last version of the drive. [btw, when i came back home i had no problems with the comp.!] i installed it and everything was fine even outside my building. about 10 days later, i started having problems at home. very slow response to action, frozen screen with the mouse moving but unable to click and finally the blue screen thing again! i read online about someone having the same problem and installed updates for my compaq 2100. nothing changed. today, i finally decided to remove d-link and couple other things. i ran the registry mechanic, hijackthis, ad-ware and stuff like that, even clean up. i kept having the same problem. after the blue screen the computer reboots and can never fully reload. it either stops at a certain point frozen or when i try to press f8 it wouldn't respond and continue until some point. i also tried to run the safe mode but it wouldn't do it. the last good version thing did not work... i just turn it off, let it cool down and try again. it starts running fine until a certain point when it grows lazy, freezes and gives me the finger [blue screen and all that sh... crap all over again]. sorry for the long explanation. hope someobody will suggest something useful thanks in advance, attila
can be a sign of failing hardware. the first place i would look is to the hard drive. a boot to your xp cd (didn't see your os in the post), and into the recovery console. from there i would run chkdsk c: /r from the command prompt.
i gave it away and no one else could make it work. sometimes you get a dud. try another make/model. bob
i also have a d-link 630 adapter card with same syptoms you have on my sony vaio. i could not get mine to work correctly and found posts on various forums with everybody having the same problem with d-link cards and usb adapters. uninstall your drivers. accect your loss and buy a new card or usb adapter of a different brand. i bought a netgear adapter card wg511 and it works great. no problems with my network or anybody elses. you can usually catch them onsale for around 30 dollars. hope this helps.
yep. it was a sign of a hard disk failure. i've had my compaq for 2 yrs now. the 2yr warranty just expired... a month ago! : ((((( i bought a new hd... thanx anyways!
