man. sony sucks. everything that i bought from them don't work properly. i bought a digital cam from sony. and sometimes the screen will go blank. and the only way to solve the problem is to hit on it like a bixxx that it is. anyway, this dvd rom is not acting properly either. it has some sticky things in the center circle. so if i leave the cd inside for too long, the cd will stick to the center. it is so strong that i can't even eject the cd. i had to open up the whole case in order to do that. ok. here is my real question. this thing won't read any dvds at all! nothing at all. what is happening? i installed the latested driver for it. but it won't recognize it.
what computer make & model? what operating system? what program do you use to play dvd's? what other programs have you tried to play dvd's? the sticky disc would bother me so much that i would want to replace the drive asap. i would hate to lose a good movie dvd or some other valuable disc. you can get an 18x dual layer dvd burner for about $30 + shipping. do you think some sticky liquid or food got inside the drive? have you inspected the inside of the case for something spilled or anything out of the ordinary? is the drive/disc hot when you attempt to remove a stuck disc?
i totally forgot about this post. i thought that it would automatically track it. anyway, i contacted sony's online live service which is kind strange, after all, i bought that one at least 2 years ago. they still provide free online live service. anyway, that guy told me to reinstall the program that came with the dvd player. i did that, nothing happened. then he told me that he can't help. i wasted quite a few hours on this sony product. and i will never buy a sony product again. i had a sony digital camera, it also had some problems. this is not a brand that i trust. no, nothing sticky got inside of it. in the center, there is this circulr sticky thing on the bottom, if i leave a disc in there for too long, it will got stuck. last time, i had to open up the comptuer and take it out myself.
