i recently purchased one more stick of mushkin sp3200 512mb 184-pin ddr sdram to add to the two that i already had. my motherboard is a chaintech znf3-250 that supports up to 2 gigs of ram with 3 slots, but when i insert the new stick and boot up the pc it stays on the startup screen. it shows &quot;memory testing: 1572864k , memory frequency is: [blank]&quot;. i'm not much of a hardware troubleshooting person so i have no idea what to do. please help.
to try each stick separately. then all possible pairs. [one pair, of course is the original pair] couls also change which slot each is in. also read the manually thorughly,regarding memory capability.
i tried every possible combination using the original pair in different slots but i still get the same result. the manual doesn't say much about memory except that it can support three 184-pin ddr dimms up to 2gb and it doesn't have any sort of troubleshooting in regards to memory. should i try one of the bios or mobo drivers from their site?
download it, run from a floppy, with only the new stick in the computer. other possibilities, the configuration of the memory chips on the new memory stick are not compatible with the mobo [if a proprietary type, got to crucial.com and search for your model number to see if you chose the correct type. also check what cas [cl] the new memory is compared to the old, and check what settings for memory cas is set in the bios. try using &quot;by spd&quot; and also try using the slowest cas setting 3 if ddr. highest number for each parameter.
make sure your bios is updated and chipset drivers are installed. they're available from the site you previously provided the link for.
it looks like you didn't do as ray suggested. try each stick (one at a time) in the slot the mobo manual lists as being for single sticks (varies with each board). after determining that all the sticks are good, then try the combinations as recommended by the manual. by adding that 3rd stick, you probably lose dual-channel support. chuck
thought of dual channel. thanx
