i have two young children (8 and 6). what computer configuration should i go with to support this age? pc? mac? what features? oh...i am on a budget! thanks!
from about age 6 had a pc. now he's 10 and has his own pc. i rarely have to help him out, but did last week as we installed an entry level video editor so he can make his own video production. i'm sure there are macs too, but i am a little pc oriented due to work and more. bob
since you didn't say what your budget is it is hard to say. but many people get a new computer and give the older one to the childern. if you have a mac then go that way. if you have a pc go that way. john
i would go with a cheap pentium 4 or a cheap athlon xp...they really don't need top of line if they are that young. i would say i good idea would be to get them a webcam/video camera for computer so they can make stupid videos and stuff. that is just my opinion tho.
if you can get a working used/freebie(given) computer of at least 500mhz or better will be decent enough for them to enjoy small pgms. and/or kid interaction type programming. they will learn the basics and still be able to get internet access with enough speed to be comfortable. being used, the system will be very cheap if &quot;working&quot; no repairs other than maybe getting to a clean slate as it were. otherwise, a cheap system and i do mean cheap but affordable are in the $500 range or cheaper if brought on sale, supplied by compaq, hp, emachines, wal-mart, k-mart, best buy, circuit city, fry's and verious online sources. that system is usually an entry system is normally new or a &quot;reburbed&quot; one that's returned to as new condition, just read the fine print. the side benefit of a vendor supplied system is usually some os and s/w bundle in part of the deal and basic warranty, if new, less warranty if reburbed. enjoy -----willy
gee, everyone has made good suggestions and for children that age it would be best to go for an inexpensive used or low priced as others have suggested. the webcam/video camera that cv4stm suggest is inexpensive and should be a hit with them. he should know as he has stated before that he is 15 years old. when my grandchildren come over they play with my 500mhz desktop that i paid $2375 for 6 yrs ago now worth about $200, or the emachine 766mhz. if they need to play a current high tech game then they use my 2.0 ghz desktop.
i did see something a little bit ago about a disney-themed desktop geared for kids - complete with mickey ears on the monitor. i believe it is in the cnet desktop reviews.
