my computer has a k7s5a pro socket a main board.the cpu is an athlon xp 2000 which i suspect to be defective. the heatsink is held in place by two retentipon clips on either side of the heatsink unit. i can't figure how to remove the clips from the socket 462 base so that i can get to the cpu. there must be an easy way to do it, but i can't figure how. help!! thanks, ray savage
bob
if you look closely one of the clips is &quot;hinged&quot; thus it will move away after pushing down on that clip. when free, twist and wingle the heatsink to break free the heatsink itself as the heatsink compounf may have siezed it abit. you can now unlock the cpu zif handle to remove cpu &quot;with care&quot;, denote the ordination should you decide to remove cpu. good luck -----willy
bob: this is just what i needed - don't know what some of us would do without folks like you!! many thanks and merry christmas! ray
willy: thanks for your reply and help. your info combined with bob's has made this problem simple. merry christmas, ray
i have an amd athlon chip on my computer and when i took the heat sink of there was no thermal pad but there was thermal grease i cleaned it up and then added more is it bad that i don;t have a thermal pad?
the thermal paste is just as effective as the thermal tape. i suspect that as the processors got faster and the heat increased, the manufacturers found a quick way of providing heat protection (thermal tape), that would not rub off in transit. the boxed cpus come with the thermal tape applied so that you don't forget, however oem cpus come naked and you have to buy a fan/sink combo which may or may not come with thermal tape. it is difficult to find thermal tape.if you have to remove the boxed cpu for any reason, or supply your own fan, a tube of thermal paste/grease is always available at the nearest radioshack. if you use the thermal paste make sure that you apply a thin layer on the die, rather than let a gob of it get down on the exposed resistors, since some of the paste is made from zinc metal and may short out your cpu. remember, all you want to do is fill in any uneven spots on the die and the surface of the heatsink, so that a gas tight fit is achieved between the heatsink and the die. this helps wick away the heat. norm
