**please bear with me as i am totally dumb when it comes to technology** i have a desktop computer, two laptops and a router. my computer is connected to the internet through a usb modem. two days ago i had both laptops and my computer connected to the internet. i got a tech guy to set everything up for 30 ($60). now i think ive totally messed everything up. i was trying to connect my ps3 to my router, so i messed around with all the network connections. now nothing works anymore. ive followed the manual that came with the router, but nothing works. my computer is now connected to my modem through a usb cable. but when everything was set up two days ago, the guy took the usb cable out and connected everything using ethernet cables. i had my modem connected to the internet port on my router and my computer connected to one of the lan ports on my router and everything worked perfectly. now when i make those same connections, nothing works and i cant even connect to the internet from my desktop computer, without using usb. i think it might have something to do with using a usb connection to my modem, but ive tried connection through ethernet and nothing works. basically i just need to know how to connect my internet connection to my router, so then i can connect my router to both my laptops. i know its possible and i have all the equipment, because two days ago everything was working perfectly. the only changes i have made since everything thing was working, is that ive reset my router and reinstalled my usb modem. i really want this all sorted out asap, and i don't want to have to pay another 30 ($60), so if anyone could help i would be really grateful. like i said i am really stupid with all this stuff and i shouldn't have messed with it in the first place. i will do my best to answer any questions and give any information you need in order to help me out, and i will be logged in all day as i really want this fixed. please help.
press the reset button the router to set it to factory defaults, and get rid of the usb cable. trust me here. modem --&gt; ethernet cable --&gt; router wan port -- router lan port(s) --&gt; ethernet cable --&gt; pcs.
i have done what you said and now my computer is connected with usb. but my laptops still dont pick up the wireless router.
enable the radio in the router? if so have you enabled ssid? ssid being the &quot;here i am&quot; signal from the router to let other devices see it. wayne click here to see the cnet faces, learn a little about analog and digital data, internet connections, spyware removal, and download free software. character - doing the right thing when no one is looking.
how do i enable the radio in the router?
when you reset the router it erased all those expensive settings the tech guy had setup in there. you must now put those settings back in yourself. typical troubleshooting is make sure modem is powered and connected to the isp line and a lan or usb cord to computer. lan is easiest. if you can access the internet the next step is to move that lan cord from the computer to the wan or &quot;internet in&quot; port on the router. put a lan cord between the router and the computer. next you open a browser and put in the default internal ip address of the router. if you get that far, come back to the thread and i or cory can help you further as time permits us. basically you want to turn on the dhcp in the router software and then be able to access the internet using the browser (open new tab or page for that) too. once that's accomplished you can setup the wireless broadcast for the laptops to access. remember, access means the laptops must find it.
router. did you turn it on? enable it?
