my brother bought me a computher and he customed made it to be the best of the best at the time but now its going out of date i did buy it in 2002, im dont understand much about computher hardware, so i need help i will write a list of hardware i have, amd athlon xp 1.67ghz processor, sound blaster live! value 5.1 promo, 64mb ddr nvidia geforce3 titannium 200 w/ tv-out 40.0 gb udma 7200 rpm hard drive 512 mb pc2100 (2 dimms) ddr sdram thats all i stufff i need help with, can you please list what i should upgrade it to, and also im haveing trouble with the ram i just dont know witch brand and modle is the best please tell me witch is the best out thier
well, we are not sure what you need this pc for. if it's basic tasks like email and using the internet, that isn't a bad pc. but since you come here asking for upgrades, maybe you are gaming or just want a faster pc. what i would do is just buy a whole new pc. trust me, it won't be worth it to upgrade that pc (depending on what you use it for). everything is near out of date. i would buy a new mobo (socket 939) 1gb of ddr400 memory &lt;200gb hard drive a nvidia 6600 graphics card (pcie) an amd 64 3200+ cpu (s939) new case psu antec, ocz, enermax make great psus, &lt;400w the rest is up to you. i can't really recomend upgrades since i don't know what you are looking forward to. i just named parts that would bring you into the current generation of pc components. konny
unless you have some higher demands that system should be fine for many years, except for bragging purposes. more memory will not likely help at all. it uses pc 2100, thus i am assuming [yes i know what that means lol], that the mobo doesn't support anything faster than pc2100.
ill just buy a brand new computher, by buy i mean ill buy the part sepratly and reable it myself hehe
carefully remove side cover from pc, then also very carefully remove old ram, and aslo beware of static electricity! take ram with you to say best buy circuit city etc, and tell them i need more of this! all the info needed to get correct ram will be on the ram stick u removed!
