in feb i purchased an i/o magic 8x dvd +-rw/+-r dual format dvd burner. it worked great until mid august. then, one night after burning 3 dvds, the writer hung up while burning the 4th. the first dvd was from picture files and done from pinnacle studio 8. the next 3 were copies of that dvd. no changes were made to the computer or software added or changed during this time. i tried different brands of rw & -r discs all with the same results. i tried different software, nero, roxio disc copier, roxio drag-to-disc and dvd clone trial version. in using drag-to-disc i discovered that it was hanging up on larger files (.99+ gb). this was while trying to copy a dvd that i had burnt using pinnacle studio 8 on the same computer and burner. the dvd as 1.83 gb with 1 file slightly over 1 gb. i have a compaq presario 5320 computer, pentium4. 1.5 ghz with 768 mg memory running windows xp home edition version 5.1 service pack 1. the main hard drive is 40 gb with 9.25 gb free. the secondary hard drive is 120gb with 73.7 gb free.
dvd burners generate a lot of heat and can fail. i'd let it sit overnight and try with a cool machine. if it works. . . my home built with more power than yours, and with a dvd and cd burner generates a lot of heat. i have placed a new 12v. fan just behind the optical drives and it blows onto the rear of the drives and pushes air above and below the drives. btw, this makes a total of 7 fans. if you have two drives, and the rack space for one more, place an empty bay between the two drives. this will allow more ventilation. good luck, telephony facts, analog/digital explained. see the cnet faces behind the posts. i think computer viruses should count as life. i think it says something about human nature that the only form of life we have created so far is purely destructive. we've created life in our own image. - - stephen w. hawking
are the images cached somewhere on the smaller hd? maybe if you delete your temp/cached files? another possibility i can think of, is if you've set a limit as far as where you keep the image files; maybe you've reached that limit, and you're not gonna get any further until you clean that folder out. just a wag.
thanks. i should have mentioned that i had let it set several days then tried burning a dvd immediately after start up with the same results. did this several times (more out of frustration than thinking it would work). also deleted all temp files (including internet) and defraged both drives.
