computer (dell)has been working fine then yesterday i went to watch a video and it played fine but no voice. so i checked to see if the volume might have gotten on mute but it was on it's regular setting. the icon is no longer in the tray as it usually is. then check sounds & devices and everything is grayed out staying no audio device can be found. i checked everything else and update all the drivers but still no sound. how could it suddenly disappear. any help, as always is greatly appreciated.
so i'm going with generic advice. 1. use system restore to the day before yesterday. 2. never accept drivers from microsoft unless you are ready to deal with the failures. 3. look in the bios settings for the enable/disable of on board sound. a few reply they didn't change it which is nice to know but still something we must check. sorry for the generic answers but no model number to work with. and don't panic if the audio card is gone and failed. there are 2 dollar usb sound devices to take over for a cheap fix. bob
now that is crazy. i haven't had to do restore for a very long time. went to system restore and to click on a restore date. there are no dates showing. the &quot;calendar&quot; is blank. as for the drivers i only checked to see if they were all up to date and they were. what would cause this issue with system restore? going to check the bios settings now.
nice when it works but it fails for far too many reasons for me to list here. no model number, no os listed so we are still in generic answers. oh, here's the 2 buck audio fix i use too often -&gt;  that's $1.46 today to my mail box. i carry one with me if i'm out to troubleshoot/fix an audio issue like the one above. bob
dell inspiron and windows xp. sounds like a easy fix if all else fails...will order one today.
i see you see why i carry one in my bag of tricks. bob
once again....you've help solve a issue without a great deal of cost. thanks raven
but it's not a done deal yet. it is something i've used a few times and sometimes i don't even have to install a driver for that thing. try it without the driver and hope. -&gt; about system restore. if it's empty try the old windows thing. disable sr and then re-enable sr. bob
i tried what you suggested and that still didn't fix the issue. so i ran disk cleanup and sr now show the calendar but now it won't allow me to chose a date. my only option is restore today. i went into device manager and there is a yellow question mark beside multimedia audio controller. i did right click on it, disabled and enabled and check properties. it appears their is no audio controller or driver...i'm not sure which of those is the issue and how to fix it. thanks
just remove the sound controller. windows should try to reinstall it. another way to approach this is to see if you have a disk that came with the computer with a chipset driver. a chipset driver is software that tells windows what hardware you have on your computer's motherboard so it will know what it is and how to use it. usually this comes with a motherboard or a computer when you purchase it. if you take your model number of your computer you should be able to go to dell's website and download it or an updated version. look for the support section at dell's website. sometimes drivers become corrupt. this can happen if the power supply is going bad or the hard drive is failing and you get file damage. if the computer is really old things may be waring out. hard drives fail and this may be a sign of a failing hard drive. of course your audio devide could be bad also.
only if there are restore points after the repairs you did. there are many issues with system restore and the lack of any backup or restore of this feature is one of them. bob
i right clicked on multimedia audio controller and properities. it states there is no driver. i searched around and the driver they are suggesting is realtek 97 and it keeps crashing my pc midway through the install causing the blue screen of death. after i two attempts at installing it i gave it. i also went in services, windows audio and clicked on restart and nothing. still no audio. i shut down and rebooted and still no sound. i just keeps stating there is no driver for multimedia audio controller. i downloaded the suggested one from here but for some reason it won't allow me to run it. any suggestions.
and dozens of drivers for each one. so it is almost a sure thing you can't get the right one. ----&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; i can't find the model number of this dell. then means i have to go with generic advice along with the usual head to dell.com, put in the service tag from the machine for the drivers. bob
sorry i thought i had posted that info. i also was wrong on what dell it is. it's actually dimesion 4550 not a inspiron (that is my laptop). not sure if it's any help as i didn't post it but the audio device is unimodem half duplex audio device. i'll give dell a try and post whatever results i get.
reply to the top post to carry on.
