hi. when i turn on pc i sometimes have a long wait before the message &quot;date and time are not set...f1 to enter setup or f2 to load default settings.&quot; sometimes i set the date and time then save and exit...all is well. sometimes i load defaults...like i said this is not all the time. my mobo is asus a8v-vm se. i have scanned my hard drive for errors and defragmented and all is well. the xp installation is only 3 weeks old. occasionally i get freezes when i am browsing or working and have to restart and go through all the f1 or f2 stuff again. occasionally on boot i get a message saying a file is missing, again a power off and power on brings me back to the f1 or f2 screem. is my mobo nearing the end of its days? battery?
try a new fresh cmos battery. why? those file missing errors can happen if the timeclock is too far off. i decline to write why that is so. bob
i changed the battery with one from another mobo, still same situation. any other ideas anyone?
now use a voltmeter and see if it's good. i wouldn't suggest this if you had tried a new battery. it's the cheapest possible item so we start there. you cheaped out so we still have that on the table. next up. tell me about the application of the cpu heatsink compound. some take it as optional. bob
bought new battery, same situation.
1. the motherboard. 2. the power supply. the psu seems to escape some why that matters. i offer it from my experience of too many years in the repair biz. a &quot;cheap&quot; test is to remove any optional gear. anything on usb and try again. for the cmos to hold its content it's just three parts. the psu does matter as when they get old i've seen the noise on the supply lines corrupt the cmos settings. cheaper than a new board so that's why we always try it. bob
cmos seems fine now, no errors on boot. what i do get is freezes with any app i've ordered a new cpu and heatsink, will this help?
the psu, motherboard can still be suspect. but given the new issues can you share what changed?
i don't get boot errors (file missing). i do get freezes in windows which means i have to restart. after restarting i still have no boot errors, no f1 or f2 options appear...clean boot. the freezes are sporadic. i can work with no problem for hours but the next time i turn on the machine, i get a freeze, no matter what app i am using, within 5 mins. i work nights what's your excuse for replying at 3.00am? thanx.
and its a different timezone. since it's barely working the list changes to checking that the cpu heatsink is on proper with heatsink compound, the fans run, the cover is off till we find it and there are no &quot;bad caps.&quot; what do you think caused this machine to tank? bob
i have a feeling it's either cpu or mobo related because of this... i built the system a year ago, all brand new gear. i swapped out my amd 64 3800 for a 3700 cos my brother's mobo wouldn't accept the 3700. i used heatsink paste when installing cpu. machine worked fine until about 6-8 weeks ago when cmos began acting up. seems the new battery has cured that. last week i installed a geforce 9800gt gr. card so i could start gaming again, i hadn't played a game for ages cos of lack of gr. power, i used onboard gr. before the geforce. games i used to play on lower spec machines are choppy and the freeze occurs. so i've got a new heatsink and am waiting for a new 3800 to arrive. if problems still persist then it seems a new mobo is in order.
