i have a model 5100a hp photosmart scanner which worked fine until i got a new computer. now the scsi card that came w/the scanner won't fit this machine. i have looked quite a few places on the net plue my own computer person - no luck. hp wants to sell me the complete kit for $80.00 - i said no. here's what i need: scsi pci 50 pin card - it goes inside the computer & attaches to the motherboard - which in my case is on the side of the computer tower not the bottom. someone suggested i get a used hp photosmart scanner which is usb compatible - that would be truly easier however i do not have money to buy another scanner (this one does my slides & negs & up to 5x7 prints - is not a flatbed scanner). i really need this scanner - have lost business because i cannot deliver scans for comp images. i expect to pay between $15. to $25.00 for this card (probably) if it can be found. thanks to anyone who can help! dajones
most will have to find an older computer to scan with and network it over to the newer machines. the pair of network cards and cable to do this is abotu 20 dollars at places like fry's. othere will scream at the cost of the scsi card kits and then will get &quot;really mad&quot; when they learn that the scanner is not supported on the new os or find another problem. i've learned to never help a person move a scsi scanner to another machine. while that sounds mean, it's better to have the person mad at hp or someone else. i hope you understand this issue. bob
you could probably buy something like the adaptec 2906 controller, that is pci and works with almost all scanners....but....the cable you have may or may not work and between the cost of the controller and a new cable a replacement scanner may be the same price. the 2906 has an end connector that looks just like a parallel port connector (25pin female) what cable comes with the 5100. you might find a used 2906 on ebay in your price range.
as bob indicates, migrating scanners to new os can be very problematic. first check the hp site and see if they have drivers for the scanner for your new os which you did not mention. if they do, download them and move on to aquiring a pci scsi host adapter or something like the usb to scsi-2 adapter cable offered at cables to go (you can locate similar adapters at various prices by other manufacturers) or a scsi to parallel port adapter jeff's suggestion to browse ebay for a host adapter is good too because even old scsi host adapters are not cheap. here is one place where you can sometimes find older adapters cheap -  once you have found one do not be too upset if it doesn't work with your particular scanner because scsi can be very &quot;picky&quot;. check the manufacturer of your old host and chances are that a host made by them that can be fitted to your new compter will work. bob's suggestion of retaining your old computer and keeping the scanner atached to it for use is probably the cheapest and most certain of success. good luck.
