my work pc died quietly in the night. (ps, mobo, cpu) but the harddrive functions. i have reports on this drive that are due yesterday. since i'm the it department, i thought i would swap the drive into a working computer that i have at home. both computers are xp pro. the computer boots, &quot;the windows did not start normally&quot; screen comes up-- and no matter what option i choose it freezes and will not boot into safe mode. i'm thinking it's a driver issue due to the old computer being intel based and the new one is amd based. otherwise i'm dead in the water until we replace my work computer. here's my question: should i do a re-install of windows xp? what is my danger of losing data? are there any better ideas than what i am doing? any input is appreciated. new machine is a soyo mobo with a 1.8ghz amd (athalon?) chip, 680+ mb ram. it worked fine with the previous harddrive (a seagate 40gb). the new drive is a wd 80 gb, already loaded with xp pro.
to being put into a new [diffetrent] system. xp has stored data on all of the original and that was made the only acceptable to it when you activated it. if the switch were to be permanent ms might allow uopu to make the exchange and give you the info on how to re validate it in the new system. doubt if your reason will suffice. taking from a commercial company's computer to a home computer will go over like a lead baloon.
i'm just offering up one of my old computers as a loaner to shorten the time i'm without a work pc. i work for a non-profit and it could be over a month before i see parts to repair the old computer at work. we have several unused legal windows xp pro liscences (microsoft is very generous to non-profits.) -- this is not the issue. (although it is my understanding the xp pro is supposed to allow you to make 4 major hardware changes before it asks you to re-activate.) i've done this before -- i'm just concerned about data loss. i'm starting to think it may be better to piggy-back this drive on the drive that was orginally in the amd computer. (which i really don't want to do...) and i agree, taking a company harddrive for home use would go over like a lead ballon -- but that's not what i'm doing here. thanks for the input.
i ended up piggy-baking the company drive onto one of my drives. not my first choice but data-integrity was vital in this case. that company drive has been backed up to a fare-thee-well now. lol however, if anyone else should have this problem, you can reinstall xp as a repair install and it will update the proper drivers to the new pc the harddrive is in. you will need your cd key. activation is another story, but microsoft is pretty decent about most diasters.
