i'm trying not to get my hopes up, but i bet that my mbp will come back with something wrong. if apple moves to replaced it like they had suggested to me (i hope), i would probably get a santa rosa machine. i doubt that they could get me the exact same one i had, since the 2.16ghz models are no longer produced. their store site does not list any refurbished ones either, thought that doesn't mean anything... i wouldn't want a refurb though. the mac is still relatively new... i'm wondering if they would swap it with the low end 2.2ghz model, which really isn't too different, or if they would let me go for the 2.4ghz model. the low end one has half of the graphics memory, a somewhat slower clock speed, and wouldn't give me any performance boosts that i could actually see. coming from a 2.16ghz model, would a 2.4ghz (or a 2.6?) show any increased performance? i mean, i'd have a new nvidia card with double the memory that was on my ati card, and i'd have a boost of at least 240mhz. plus, the battery life is supposed to be very good with those led displays. i hope they let me get a good one that works so i don't have to deal with any more problems... i've already lost a great deal of time because of all this. not to mention i broke a router in the process and had to get another one... i'll be happy with at least 2.4ghz and a 250gb hd. 2gb of ram is fine for me. even though the 2.2ghz model replaced mine, i really could use a little extra power. the 2.4ghz model seems to represent the santa rosa line anyway, does it not?
they'll be doing your work and as we all know they tend to grease the squeaky wheels.
aren't always customer friendly. i asked one genius a similar question one time. he gave me what seemed to be a dirty look and said that would never happen. at least this time they acknowledged that it would be replaced if it isn't fixed this time. they're shipping it to the depot, so they won't see the repairs until it comes back. i hope it comes back before next friday... thing is, i'm trying not to push my luck here. i was assured that it would be completely fixed when it comes back, and i intend to hold them to that promise, though a new mac would be kind of nice. they have to look at the airport card, the ethernet hardware, and i hope they look at the board again... plus, the casing is still messed up and the antennae that runs through the top of the laptop may have had issues too. a little more than greasing i'm afraid.
a non qualified person opened it up. i've seen botch jobs but not from the depot. bob
this one is interesting, though i'm pretty sure that his situation was far worse than mine . here's the story:  and the other half:  that guy's mac saw its fair share of botched jobs. my mac has come back twice now without being fully repaired, but it hasn't gotten too bad yet. i mean the first two times, i explained to them all of my issues and i told them what i wanted fixed. so far they've done a bang up job... i really hope that they just swap it out when it returns, supposing it doesn't work right, because that guy's escapade doesn't sound too good. thankfully, the two geniuses that helped me out sounded like they got most of it down, but... i read the sheet with the scheduled repairs on it and i don't think they got them all down like they said. i typed up every single thing i could find and had problems with just for them, but i suppose three pages of problems and complaints is too much for them. they said they got them all, but i would disagree if that paper is correct. that's what happened the first time... the guy didn't write one of the things down. i noticed that before i left and asked him about it. said they had it and would check it out. but they didn't. here it is happening again... well, i look forward to my santa rosa machine, if i end up getting one. my initial question remains: do the new santa rosa machines have any substantial advantages over their predecessors? i guess i'll find out, but i'd like to know ahead of time. -bmf
three pages of whatever &quot;is&quot; too much for them... i miss my mac now, with all of its nifty editing features. at least firefox has spell check.
