between pentium d, core 2 duo nd amd 3800 x2, which 1 is the best? wat's the cache use 4? pentium d nd core 2 duo offer 2mb while amd 3800 x2 offer only 256/512 kb cache..........plz help...
at tomshardware.com he has the cpu charts and if the new chips are not on the charts then you can read reviews to get the new performance numbers. make a spreadsheet with the cpus that you are considering and sort by the winner. bob
what is cache use for? amd offer only 512kb while intel offer more than 2mb.........is it make any differences???
while i can write &quot;doesn't matter&quot; since at the end all that matters is the benchmarks, the truth be known that you can find that answer with google.com or ask.com. i could tell you that l1 cache is good because it's at zero wait states but that possibly will just create more questions. if you want to learn about cpu architecture then hit the web or take classes. if you want to know the fastest cpus then you just get the benchmark results. what's your goal here? bob
the new intel core 2 duo processors are amazingly fast. they destroy everything in their path. regardless of whether you're playing games, encoding video or editing pictures, the c2d gives the best performance. i believe the price for these cpus is very good too. now, if you're just looking to surf the web and little else, then you can get by with a cheap $80 celeron but with the e6300 costing only $180 right now, it's a killer deal. if i was building a pc right now, i'd look at the e6700 and e6600 cpus which run around $530 and $340 respectively. each have 4mb l2 cache. i'm very excited right now with intel because they have reclaimed the cpu performance crown from amd plus have quad core versions coming out soon known as &quot;kentsfield&quot; which have absolutely mind blowing speed in multi-threaded applications. (which i admit are scarce) i can't wait. i'm drooling to build a system around a four core cpu.
what is cache??? can u help me??...any sites??
in my last reply i answered how to find out. hint: type the question at google.com or ask.com bob
