hi- recently my amd duron 1200 cpu died, and im having trouble tracking down a replacement, my question is if anyone knows where to find one affordably, and second- does the k7s5a mobo with a atx case with 300 power supply support the amd duron 1400? any thoughts?? any help at all would be appreciated!
i believe there was more than one version of the k7s5a motherboard. you'll need to know which version you have. if you have the manual that will be the easiest way to determine the specs. if not download and install belarc or everest home. these small programs can tell you everything installed on your computer. once you know, go to the ecs website to check the supported cpu's. best of luck
if it supported the duron cpu, then it supports the amd xp cpu class as well. depending on the mtrbd., it *may* also support the newer sempron cpus as well. during the orginal release of the mtrbd. and later, many a bios update has come out, check the support website for the details, as some update maybe required to support the full range of cpus other than what it orginally supported. you will then know for sure what cpus it supports. tada -----willy
look for processors. others will send you to ebay.
on the back of the box it says iso-9001 on the bottom left.. and on the front of the manual is a sticker under the k7s5a that says ea=000795b22c56 and in the manual introductions it says : socket a support for an amd k7 type processors, and you can install any one of these processors on the board. the mainboard supports front side bus speeds of 200/266 mhz. beyond this i cant seem to find a model # or anything else...
the manual is generic. should be a sticker around the bar code. but the most accurate info will be on the mobo itself. there will be a version sticker next to the chipset. i had a version 5. why limit yourself to duron. the board takes athlon, including thoroughbred. the version # will tell you how late a processor and ddr memory (usually up to pc2100). just checked elitegroup. the latest (k7s5a pro v.5 also takes xp athlon. good luck. chuck
remember to get a cooler. however, i don't know if the board supports this chip. i'm assuming so since it's 266mhz fsb. 300 watts is plenty.
