umm, where should i put the sub woofer for my 2.1 speakers for my computer? also what are some good brands for dvd burners, lcd monitors, and should i go with a modular power supply or just an regular power supply? (i've heard some bad things about modular power supplies)
sure you get a good name brand which would probably not include psus by ultra. re cd-dvd...for the latest check with some of the cd-dvd review sites. then read some of the user comments at newegg.com on the units you're most interested in. that's it for now. vapcmd
from a previous post of mine - ''in a nutshell - front of the room, near (but not in!) a corner or wall. ''not-so-nutshell - if you have enough cable, place the sub where you would [be sitting when] listening. play something with at least somewhat musical bass. walk around near the front of the room slowly, listening to the changes in the quality of the bass - bass frequencies/waves are long, as such very dependant on room shape, size and location within that space- it'll sound different at point a than it will at point b, even if they're only a foot apart. so, on your walkabout, you'll find a place where it sounds best - good oomph, but not too bloated and boomy - that's where you want to put the sub. again, pay particular attention to the areas to the front of the room, near a corner or wall, but never up against one. also, never put a sub at the halfway point between opposite walls - the waves will reflect and tend cancel each other out. after you get the sub placed, fiddle with the sub volume 'til it matches what's coming out of the l&r speakers (the z-2300 has a bass volume knob in addition to the master volume on the wired control). if you really want to get the most out of them (hehhehheh) go to radioshack and get a $30 sound pressure level (spl) meter and a test disc and balance along the frequency range to your heart's content!''
i got an ultra power supply. oh well, i guess i'll try selling it or something. i was wondering about the power supply because i've heard a lot of bad things about modular power supplies (especially ones from ultra). hmm, i'm thinking about getting an enermax power supply. got any other recommended brands?
all i can suggest is do some reading ... pcpowerandcooling.com is the best (and expesnive) and then there's seasonic, antec, enermax, fortron, sparkle power, ocz, etc., it's a core component so it doesn't pay to skimp. tomshardware.com has some good reading on psus. once you focus on some you like...check the buyer comments reviews at places like newegg. when you're ready to buy and want some feedback..post your choices here for comment... you know most can't resist. vapcmd
if you're going to go with a modular psu, ocz makes a nice one. i haven't used it, but it's come very highly recommended from members on my folding team, and i'll probably throw one in to my next build.
umm, i'm not planning to buy a modular power supply since i've heard some bad things about it. my choices are ocz powerstream 520 watts (this is the one i'm thinking about getting)  enermax whisper ii 535 watts  sparkle fsp550plg 550 watts  silverstone zeus sst-st52f 520 watts  antec truepower 2.0 tp2-550  umm, the reason i bought my ultra power supply was because it part of the package. i thought it would be a good deal since the power supply and the case costs $100 each but they were selling the package for $130. i also looked up some reviews about the power supply and they all liked it. but umm, if you guys have some other recommended power supplies for me i'll gladly listen to them. i'm looking for a power supply that is under $150. i'm gonna run an amd athlon x2, sli (i'm not going to run sli right away, not until i have the money), 1 gig ram, and a m2n32 sli wireless motherboard.
looks way better than most to me.  i read all or almost all the reviews for the links you posted .... many showed doas and failure rates that literally scared me and many seem to lack sufficient power to support some of the more power hungry sli video cards. unless $$ is no object i'd look a little further and repost. so you can bump up to the one i suggested or make sure the psu you select will support the sli cards you get. vapcmd
thanks a lot. but umm, the ultra i looked at had really good reviews too. i mean how do you know which one to pick? but yeah, my limit is at $150 (although, i'm still willing to spend a few bucks more). hmm. well, i guess i'll pick an ocz power supply but do you think it would still be good if i got an gamexstream 600 watts instead? i sort of have a budget. i mean the gamerxstream is the same you provided below but just 100 watts less. i don't really plan to overclock anything. thanks for your help. btw, can you help me look for a ide dvd burner? i would like a fast, reliable dvd burner/player that is under $50.
if you have a cabinet around you, drawer, etc & you want big booming bass, put the subwoofer in the cabinet, drawer, etc. it will resonate the entire container...really amplifies the uph of any subwoofer, so long as you dont get any rattles. thats what i did. also, windows xp comes w/ a lil known program that you can access through the control panel (cant remember the name) but its a blue icon w/ a yellow cirle on it. check it out, it allows you to turn your standard output/line-in/mic plugs into a full surround sound system sub & all check it out. this is all stuff that i have done & i have a humongous 29 speaker surround sound setup connected to my computer
of all people &quot;corsair&quot;.....modular too. looks appealing ... only problem it;s so new you may not be able to find in the market yet. another good site...
but i'm not a real fan of bass so where else should i out it?
ok well, i've decided on buying the ocz gamexstream powersupply. btw, do you know any good brands for lcd monitors and dvd drives?
