i have a 2yr nearly 3 yrs old eee pc (a 1005ha to be exact). i bought it for the ridiculously long battery life which was advertised at 8.5 hours but naturally it was actually 4 hours as companies like advertising battery life at double what it actually is. i have been happy with it since now, when the battery life has much decreased (just over 2 hours now). i have the battery conserving setting switched on with the fn keys and also in the windows settings. does anyone have tips for conserving/increasing battery life or do i need a new battery?
that battery was/is good for 300 or more cycles. as you used the battery aged and is now worn out. i won't write about all the false info about battery &quot;conditioning&quot; but (again) it's a 300 cycle battery. the best way to conserve a battery is to leave it on ac whenever possible. bob
i charge it up every night, and i have to use it from battery life because i use this about 3 or 4 times each day, every day and after each time i use it i have to be able to put it away quickly, without going through the doo-dah of packing the charger away. i mean, i don't really want to use the charger unless i really have to, e.g. when it says 'plug in or find another power source' or 'reserved battery level (7%)'. also, if there is a plug socket nearby and the netbook is already charged up and i plug it in, it does that horrible sizzling noise which does my head in.
since you have chosen to avoid using ac when available, you pay for the limited life span. that is, you use up the battery life. bob
well, charging it up every night should be enough. because i used to charge it up every 3 days.
what i mean is, having one of those dell inspiron 1545's plugged in 24/7 is fine, because the battery life on those is rubbish (about 40 minutes). but netbooks are designed to have longer battery life, and therefore, charging it up every night should provide enough power to last it for the day, if not slightly longer than that.
battery life or cycles look to be the same on the dell at 300 cycles. you use them up and then the number of minutes drop. lesson? use the battery only when there is no ac or buy a new battery as they wear out. bob
