i recently bought a hauppauge 1178 wintv-hvr-1600 ( [l=  [/l] ) and opened it to then find out it only supports hd from over the air broadcasts (atsc.) i'm looking for a tv tuner that can watch and record in hd from my comcast cable box. i have hd comcast cable box, and i want to be able to watch and record from that source on my computer, as i do not have a hd tv, and my computer is all i have that is capable of playing hd. (1900*1200 res) are there any tv tuner cards that i can put in my pc that will let me do this?
think about it. if you could receive hd/digital broadcasts (cable or satellite) on your pc, could you not therefore save the digital movie and therefore burn that digital movie? what might an unscrupulous person do with that dvd? wayne (ibm freak - 6) click here to see the cnet faces, learn a little about analog and digital data, internet connections, spyware removal, and download free software (and a great chocolate-cherry cobbler recipe). my mini-schnauzer is smarter than your honor student.
the hvr1600 has a qam tuner which will let you see/record the non-encrypted (in-the-clear) hd channels on your cable system. it must be connected to your cable (not the cable box) and it won't record premium channels. call comcast to determine if your cable system has clear qam hd channels.
eh, you can record normal cable tv, and burn a dvd of a movie on tv if you want.... it's being broadcast on tv... are you saying that with hdtv, companies are not allowing people to record hdtv shows?
but it's of lower quality. but recording the digital signal and burning that signal would rival a dvd quality movie. that could be construed as piracy. hdtv can be recorded on a dvr or such. but the encryption is limited to the recorder. recording hdtv to a computer is highly discouraged. look around if you like. i have. there are many video cards with hdmi and/or dvi output. hdmi or dvi input are nonexistent. if you find one, email me.
you might be interested in a similar topic here:  if you look for the stb you have, then you can research the method. watching live hd does not seem to be as much of a problem as recording it. the hauppauge hd pvr 1212 is also supposedly capable of recording component outputs but is not a card.
