hi, using windows xp pro sp3. how do i get rid of an &quot;unknown device&quot; with a yellow question mark in my device manager? by process of elimination, i believe it to be my ups by american power systems. attaching it to the computer was an optional step and it does not need to be there to function, and in addition i am unable to find the software to reinstall it. i have tried deleting the device in the device manager but it always returns, and i get the old &quot;windows xp has found new hardware do you wish to etc. etc.&quot; thanks in advance for any help offered,
read  and you find the answer is to install the driver for it. there is no issue for speed, performance if you don't fix it. this can be cosmetic and as such i'll just leave it as-is, where-is and use the machine without fixing. bob
have you tried disconnecting the usb/parallel connector? most ups software is bulldog.
hi bob, thanks for the reply and ms link. as i said in my post i don't have the software for the device with the drivers on it. jakeman97
hi coreyphaeus, thanks for the reply. i did disconnect the usb cable to device. i should have mentioned that in my post. thanks, jakeman97
the item in device manager is purely cosmetic and should not be causing any glitches.
hi r.proffitt, right you are. not causing any glitches; but it bugs me 'cause it's there.
note what it is exactly then boot safe mode. remove it in safe mode. sorry if that works or not because i should have noted this old trick above. bob
bob's right just leave it alone. you could however right click it and attempt to up date it's driver from device manager. if this does the trick (sometimes this works, sometimes it doesn't) then just plug it back in. you might look for events concerning this device in event viewer. if there are then you might wish to take extra efforts to re-install it. no events, no problems. i hate it when that happens. those annoying false alarms. they drive me crazy.
the yellow shield is there to tell you your product isn't working, or communicating with your computer, to take instuctions on how to act and respond. so connect your usb cable. if you don't have the software,it's ok. windows navtive work just fine. you just look on the ups tab on your power properties and match the probable ups model. you can usually find the model number on the back of the ups. even that isn't as important as telling the ups what to do during a power outage, how long to stay on during power outage, whether to go to hibernation. hope some of this helps
oh your right! never thought of that when i disconnect all the cables to clean inside of computer / fans / etc. live in a very dusty, damp environment and it's a once a month chore at least. i'm going to try what the op suggested in the thread and update the drivers from windows base...i found out that microsoft supplied the software for this product originally. thanks to all for your suggestions. i all else fails, i'll just leave well enough alone. jakeman
will you please help me on how to install the conexant amc 3d enviromental audio to my laptop a compaq presario f767 nr .i originally purchase this unit at best buy and had a vista home premium factory installed by hp, but i decided to run xp proff. sp2 and so far hp does not allowed to intall it.i tried to download a uaa driver from microsoft and using driver agent, i had installed all the other drivers,i will settle to have at least any generic drive for this notebook.compaq presario f767 or f700 amd turion 64x2 mobile technology tl-60 ,nvidia geforce 7000m/nforce 610m display drivers,bios date 2007.12.07,chipset athlon 1100 rev o,thanks for your help,tony,vall1656@bellsouth.net
reading  it appears you can't guess what drivers to use or what order to install them. notice the &quot;note: it is strongly recomended to install ths driver before you install the audio driver. if you do not install this driver the audio will not work.&quot; when they hit the ms uaa driver? did you get your plan from hp? bob
you need to unplug the device from your computer before you uninstall the driver in device manager. as long as the device is plugged into your computer, it will continue to appear in device manager, even if you try to delete it from there. or you can try looking for the device in the &quot;safely remove hardware&quot; area in the system tray and uninstall it from there. if you still get the &quot;found new hardware&quot; message after you try these methods, then you should allow windows to go ahead and install the driver again. after that, you should be able to see the device in device manager instead of seeing &quot;unknown device&quot; with a question mark.once the device has been restored to the device manager without that error message, you can then go ahead and uninstall the driver for good.
if you have narrowed the device down to the apc ups, why not install the correct driver from  ? try the following link and download the appropiate ups software for your particular ups.
