i have a amd athlon 64 x2 dual core processor 5200+ (2.70ghz) 2gb of ram, a 650watt power supply and an open pci-e slot i was just curious would my computer be able to handle a graphics card like the nvidia geforce gtx 560/570/580? i used to have an ati radeon hd 4850 but its gone now. just wondering what restricts someone from running a powerful video card? thanks!
i don't have the exact psu to check as well as what the current total watts are for the machine to see if the 650 watt psu is overtaxed. but usually it's just a matter of power and cooling. bob
currently i'm using a corsair tx650w power supply (  )
and the good caps make me think there won't be a power issue. now let's hear about how you have a big case with ample air flow. bob
what's considered big? i measured mine it's 19 inches in length, 16 inches in height and 7.5 inches in width. case inside is organized and all lose wires are tied up.
the major failures i see could be avoided with good psus and good air flow. a nice size case is good but unless the air is flowing, all that is for naught. many gamers have taken to leaving the side cover off which i've done many times while i decide how i'm going to punch a big hole in the cover to get more flow. bob
alright i guess that solves the problem then, thanks! are there any other alternatives to getting in good air flow?
if you follow the saga of pc power consumption it went up and up for years. now as newer chips are arriving the efficiency is getting better. can be pricey to get the latest. bob
so basically as long as i have good air flow now, i can handle a gtx560/570 etc.?
more than fine for gamers. i wonder if you worried about cpu horsepower. so far, for most games it's all about the gpu. bob
so a lot more about the gpu, so my cpu is okay? when is cpu important?
there are few games that tap the cpu too hard. i hope someone lists them for us but for most, it's all about the gpu and for loading times, the speed of the hdd. bob
i see, so that's how it works. thanks for the assistance!
