for christmas(even though it is a little late), i want to get a terabyte hard drive. it would be set up to be an external hard drive but i could purchase the 3.5 hdd and put it in a 1 tb enclosure. my past experience with external hard drives (or individual hdds) is that although a hard drive may be cheap and high capacity, it could corrupt on you as easy as pie. while high end ones, lower capacity, but still can crap out on you as well but less likely to. 1 terabyte hard drive is an extreme high capacity hard drive so i want to be sure not to fall for them cheap and high capacity hdds, but i lose all my data because it craps out on me. my question is: what is a good hdd brand (specifically for a terabyte) that also won't break the bank but also will not crap out on me as well? thanks in advanced!
then see what questions remain. my observation, external hdds are generally much more susceptible, vulnerable to problems and failure than internals. vapcmd
true single 1tb hds are not that plentiful yet but available. the brand that seems to pop-up is that from hitachi and wd while others really offer dual-500gb setups in ready made ext. cases and/or if you diy. it rally doesn't matter what hds are out there, as all are prone to damage for whatever reason, being 1tb isn't going to isolate it from similar damage. i tend to lean towards wd and seagate for typical installs, seagate more as they have a better warranty period compared to anyone else. samsung is another to look for when 1tb is made by them. imho, wait for seagate offerings if at all possible. so far, i haven't heard any horror stories, but i don't fix a zillion hd problems neither. adios -----willy
put it in an external usb-2 enclosure. bring money.
google info on it and discover it sets up some roadblocks to file sharing for certain file types that might interfere with your intended use of the drive, or not. supposedly if you don't load the mionet software you won't have the oppressive digital rights management policing the drive's usage. unfortunately, most places selling the world book 1tb drives don't mention any of that in the sales pitch. here's the most popular article about it.
for primary data storage ? for backup of data stored on internal drives ? really need portability ? is there room for another internal drive ? vapcmd
thank you all for your input and suggestions. i really very much appreciate it. to vapcmd, thanks for pointing me to the storage forums. i didn't get too much information about 1 tb hard drives but a lot about external hard drives as well as good or bad brands. as per your other questions, i would like to use this hard drive as an external hard drive for it's portability and not for primary storage or backup, but just to use for my gigabytes worth of folders i transfer and download. after much research surrounding terabytes, there are some things i've learned. i don't know if it's good or bad, but because there aren't much 1 tb hard drives, it wasn't a vast amount of research that was required. although the wd world book is the most known and by far the cheapest, there have also been a lot of complaints about it as well. also, i have had negative experience with western digital hard drives as well to add unto it. what i have heard is that seagate is an execellent brand with much positive feedback about their hard drive. it's significantly more, but it seems the most worth it because of it's extraordinary manufacturer's warranty. this works well because of all the research on how these hard drives fail as well. coincidentally enough, i ended up going the route that coryphaeus suggested. thank you all again. it seems that all that i have researched is confirmed by all of you. if anything, it puts my doubts at ease as i have already gone through with all the purchases and what not. thank you.
