i bought a new heatsink and when i went to put it in i found out that it didn't fit into the bracket thing. stupid me thought that a socket 478 heatsink would fit onto my socket 478 mobo. the new heatsink has the four clips thing. basically here is my mother board (  ), but the black thing surrounding the socket is different, it has two spring things that look more like the one on the bottom of this: (  ) am i boned here? can that bracket thing be swapped out? it has those strange screw heads, implying to me that it isn't supposed to be removed. what is that thing even called? if anyone can answer any of these questions, it would be much appreciated. and sorry for messing up the formatting with the long link, but i don't know how to describe that thing and a picture is worth a thousand words, yada, yada. thanks
newegg [great outfit]. they state exact replacement only, however, call the 800 number, talk to their customer support, they'll work with you. they won't do a direct exchange however will give full credit when they get the part back and inspect that they got all of the pieces back. meanwhile place a new order for what you want. you'll have to pay then but you will get the refund when they get the part back. i've done this with newegg a number of times.
sorry for the confusion, that is not the actual cooler i bought, i was just using the picture to show the bracket. i actually bought it from tigerdirect.ca, anyone know how they are about returning things. the cooler i did buy is this one  . i'd rather not have to deal with returning it, but i wouldn't risk my mobo either, sooooo.....yeah.
also, if anybody knows where i could get a decent cooler (quiet too) that would fit this bracket thing, that would be great. one stipulation is that it could be delivered to canada, so unfortunately no newegg or zipzoomfly.
metal clips won't connect to the plastic bracket attached to the mobo??? most of the ones that i've seen are much nicer plastic levers and very simple to use.
it looks like it could get locked in on two corners, but i can't even fit the heatsink into the bracket. i could force it, but then i risk doing some serious damage and i still wouldn't be sure that there is good contact between the heatsink and the chip, so no dice. the heat sink that's in there now measures 63mm x 89 mm. the new one i bought is 68mm x 83 mm. that extra 5mm is really killing me.
remove the stock bracket from 2-4 screws holding from backside of mtrbd. then replace using the new bracket with fan off. later mount the fan. that is what it appears needs to be done. tada -----willy
would i be able to buy that at any computer store? it there a risk i could damage the mobo? this would involve removing the mobo, is that right?
it seems to be called a &quot;retention module&quot;. thanks for all the replies so far.
yes and no, as you remove the system case, some vendors provide a hole(thru mounting plate) to access the rear of the mtrbd.. if not, yes you have to remove the mtrbd. and access the rear of it. the screws are plain screws, thumbscrews or clamp clips, proceed as necessary. yeah, you proceed at your own risk. otherwise, forget about that hsf and get one more stock compatible. ok? tada -----willy
sounds good, thanks for the help.
