i have a very good question that needs answering.. can i use my 'wd mybook 500gb' or any other external hardrive to listen to music/view media on a regular basis? in other words, can i use my external hardrive just like any other hardrive? the reason for this type of question is that i feel a little uneasy about seeing how hard my hardrive has to work.. or how it heats up after long periods of time. it's enough to get anyone a little concerned.
i have (personally, not including office units) one unit that does not have a fan, the other does. given the variety of designs out there i give a nod to fan equipped cases. bob
i'm thinking an external hardrive is meant for back-up only and then you're finished, then you unplug it.. end of story. but, i'm an avid collector of music and i listen to it on a regular basis. so, that means i'm constantly making wd's mybook work hard.. by making it's insides churn, and heat up. my other wd hardrive (160gb, not a mybook) never really got hot or made a lot of noise. to be honest, my other hardrive was much faster and probably performed better overall! i've heard it's because the mybook writes/reads slow.. could this be the case? it came with a fat32 filesystem and i decided to change it to ntfs because i've heard it's safer too. so far, i noticed very little speed boost. anyway, with all these reviews and comments about data failing on external hardrives (usb/firewire).. i guess i have to be careful with mine? lol, and also my dad has a lacie external hardrive.. i don't think it has a cooling system (fancy fan) either. but, i've read reviews about it overheating. in this case, i have personally used it for long periods of time and felt it to be very hot afterwards. if you're caring around a lot of data.. even that is at risk. backing up a back-up drive seems a bit funny, but i'm beginning to believe it really is necessary. you never know what's going to happen!
find the write protect switch. bob
wd's mybook can also come equipped with software that with the touch of a button, backs up all of your computer's files; the premium edition to be exact.
the button is a backup button but no switch to stop a virus or human from wiping out the drive accidently. these fail the basic test of a backup. the next test is having the second and third copies. i found only one person to have more than one backup. bob
if you mean if there's a lock switch where no data can be written on the hardrive.. then yes, there is one!
about time someone get the formula right. now to tackle that multiple copy item. with just one device/media the pests can infect it and you can't go back. also it can't be left off site in case of fire, theft. bob
..by that i mean, can i push it to the limits and use it as much as i like to? i'd just like to clarify what i was saying in my first question.
mine work just super.
curious.
it's rare to find a good fanless so i agree you want cases with fans. the other is some no-name from newegg or geeks.com bob
