good day i hope someone can assist by adding some light to this subject? i have an office with 7 windows xp desktops, all running duel lg monitors except for 1 desktop. some monitors are wide and some square but all with the same issue. also, about 3 out of 7 desktops has pci-e radeon cards in them. the problem i am facing is that they were running this setup for the last 3 years until they had their tables changed to ones that can elevate up and down. with this in place, having to get longer vga cables were needed and a simple 3meter vga db-15 cable * 13 would do the trick. fitting the cables aren't any problem but as soon as i had them connected and then switched on the desktops. i realized that there is a bad blur on every single monitor, even the desktop with one monitor. i later went and got a 5 meter vga cable to test with and the blur goes better, but it is still there. i even went and tried updateing graphics driver for 3 machines, 2 were radeon hd cards and 1 intel express chip. updated both with drivers and control centres but still no difference. having to plug back the original cables coming with the lg monitors works like a charm, but then have the problem where i can't use the elevated tables. my question would be, is there any quality differences between these cables you can buy or is it about the length that it looses signal strength. just keep in mind that the 5 meter worked better than the 3meter cable. could it be a compatibility issue that i am getting here or is it ust my luck that anything above 1.8meters will be more blurry than the original cable. any assistance will be appreciated. thanks
the signals from a video card or any from a pc ports are limited to the quality of cable and length. your problem if you use ext. cables to std. cable you degrade the signal. if single longer cable, the same result. you have reached the limits of video signal strength(degradation) and you see the results. either get &quot;high quality&quot; cables or a signal repeater that maintains signal strength. google for video boosters or similar, here's one.  alas, this isn't going to be that cheap. tada -----willy
hi and thank you for the reply. it makes a whole lot sense when you say that the signal is the part that gets weaker as the cable length becomes longer or attached to more cables as extensions. the way i am trying this is all with single cables, nothing attached to extend or anything. just standard single cables, but having to use the 3 meter cables made it very blurry and using the 5 meter cable was slightly better but still blurry. the 5 meter cable is a thicker insulated cable than the 3meter. that would be a better quality then?? the best quality i am getting is from the original 1.8 meter cable which i can't use because of the length, but i will check out those video boosters as well as every option will be tried and tested. otherwise having to buy proper quality vga cables might be my only option. how do i tell the difference in good or bad cables. i googled this question and found that they mention these signal blockers at the end of every side of the vga cable. also thicker sleeved cables are better quality. is this al true or should i know more than this? many thanks
honestly when it comes to quality, price is pretty much the factor of what you get. also, it should state its &quot;shielded properties&quot;. further, even with a single cable of hi-quality build and since you seem able to de-attach it, makes that an issue as well, because the fact you have a build-in break at the monitor. impedance is more introduced at all breaks in the cable length. in other words, all connections imply a break, though complete with proper setup, depends on that being sound. you will notice the monitor's video cable is roughly 3-4ft(1m) long. if you find another single cable, i think the most it will be is 3m(8-9ft) long and its a hit-or-miss it will work, thus try only on 1 pc setup for now. you can google away for ideas but i suggest contact the monitor makers and see if they offer an optional cable. also, try this website for some clues or parts:  tada -----willy
i am having the same problems with a 23&quot; lg led monitor. the only cable that works properly is the cable that is supplied with the monitor. i need an 8-10' cable. if you have found a solution i would greatly appreciate it if you would let me know about it. many thanks....
skip vga and go with a digital hdmi or digital dvi connection.
hi nelsonrh, i just bought a cheap cable &quot;5m vga hd svga extension cable for pc monitor projector&quot; from ebay for 3.90 it work for my computer but when i turn the computer off and the lg monitor on, it will show &quot;check signal cable&quot;. i think is about the pins, some only have 14 pins connected(not 15 pins) but i am not sure.
