hi, im deciding whether or not i should buy this computer, please give me all your suggestions, they are all welcome, thank you. intel core i5 750 quad core gigabyte crossfirex usb3.0 sata3 motherboard western digital caviar black 1tb sata3 6gb/s 7200rpm 64mb cache 3.5in dual proc hard drive oem samsung black dvd writer xfx radeon hd 5770 850mhz video card antec three hundred mini tower gaming case microsoft windows 7 home premium edition 64bit dvd oem ocz modxstream pro 700w atx 20/24 pin sli all this adds up with about $1,206 canadian dollars
buy a machine with only one hard drive. that 1tb drive might be fine for data but i'd put the os and apps on something smaller. i'm also not seeing ram. if you're going 64 bit, you'll go 4 gigs and up. that i5 will be dual channel so 4 gigs means 2 modules minimum so figure about 100 + bucks us per set.
i built a similar setup in sept 09 for about $900 us. but i had 2 ea. 500 gb sata drives along with the caviar green 1tb. i used my old case though and a 650 corsair psu along with the win 7 upgrade early release which was $49. so your prices are not far out of line, you can shop around for a little better. zipzoom, new egg and tiger are all moderately priced, sometimes you can find a deal or rebate.
too high, why mini tower?
i'm trying to figure out if this is a config you have setup, a system configurator (from a website, eg: newegg, tigerdirect, etc.), or a specific brand name (hp, acer, gateway, dell). if it's a system you're thinking of putting together yourself; i would definitely be looking at a larger case; the antec 300 is just too small to allow the proper ventilation you'll need to cool the cpu and videocard, also your first build should be a joy not a nightmare because the case you bought is too small for your components. as stated before, we think you forgot to include the ram, this will add some cost to your project. if this is a specific system from a manufacturer; then make sure you check their website forums for customer reviews, problems, concerns, etc. if you're looking to buy a specific setup; then you need to decide what you're going to be using the computer for (eg: photo/ video editing, gaming, etc.), then decide which components will best suit your needs. judging by the price ($1206 cad); i'm thinking you probably hail from canada-not a bad thing, if you're in the western region, try researching components from ncix, newegg.ca, or memory express. i buy all my computer components from memory express for 3 reasons; their competively priced, quality products, and the best extended warranties in the west  . i don't know if you have set your mind on intel, but for $1206 you can put together a rather killer amd system
