i have a toshiba external 160gb hard drive (  ). the cable that connects the drive to the computer is starting to fail. i would like to buy a replacement. i know that it is not the harddrive because this happened before. i contacted toshiba and they sent me the only cable they had. but it did not work. they suggested i buy a replacement cable from any computer store, which i did, and that did not work either. the usb cable that comes with the harddrive (  ) has what looks like a section that can provide more power to the driver so it can run efficiently. any help would be greatly appreciated. thanks in advance.
all you need to do is match the connectors. the types that offer a second power connector will sometimes work better as not all usb ports can provide the same amount of current. sometimes, however, an apparent cable failure is a poor connection at the device itself. these aren't always easy to troubleshoot. another option might be to buy another external enclosure that comes with its own cable and put the hard drive in that. you'd have to pull the drive out to make sure it's no some proprietary design. i've heard that some external drives have the usb connection as part of the controller rather than an sata to internal adapter. since you didn't ask any specific question such as &quot;will this work&quot; or &quot;what should i do&quot;, that's about all i can offer. you try and find a cable with the extra power connector or try another enclosure. good luck.
usb 2.0 y cable, a male x 2 to mini b male x 1 let us know how it turns out. vapcmd
what makers don't tell you is that usb powered drives are notoriously unreliable. i can take a model that didn't work on the owner's machine and plug it into some rear usb port of a desktop and it works. it's a shame they produced this product without taking into account &quot;the real world.&quot; bob
come with ac adapters too like the one below. it's usb 2.0 and esata.  external enclosure are great but they do have lots of potential problems from voltage, cooling, drive capacity, cables, etc. not to mention underpowered usb ports at the host. vapcmd
