this is a small issue... computer: i have a dell dimension 8400 (p4 3.0ghz, 2.5gb ram, 80gb sata drive). original power supply is 350 watts. my modifications: * added a linksys ethernet nic, on-board connection died * pci card with 4 usb 2.0 ports * combo firewire (2 ports)/usb 2.0 (4 ports) pci expansion card (bought but haven't installed, so count it) * 2gb of ddr2 sdram, 533 mhz, on top of my original 512mb other than that i am running everything on external power, e.g. external hdd, flash drives which are bus-powered. between ms office documents, music collection, and pictures, i have finally gotten to 2/3 full on my original hdd and want to add on another sata drive in the 160-250gb range. my question... do i need a new power supply? if so, what do you recommend? is there some formula i could use to calculate my needs? it is a dell so i also have concerns about proprietary equipment dimensions, cabling, etc. also, does anyone have any successes with any hard drive makers? thanks!
hd... their all good, untill they die and you have no &quot;backup&quot;
the dell psus are darn good, though many think they're not. the point is they do deliver the juice until it fails like any other psu. i suggest you calculate your actual power demands and add on top of that at least 50% or simply double it. because you have a dell, you do need to be sure it is compatible to physically as well deliver the added wattage in its space. you can check at:  and follow their lead on suggestions. if price affects you then find what they offer in wattage and then look for another *namebrand* psu of similar rating. tada -----willy
just leave your original power supply alone. it's more than adequate for your usage. as for hard drives, any name brand will do: western digital, seagate, hitachi. i'd only get a maxtor (since they're a subsidiary of seagate now) if it was cheaper than the other brands i mentioned.
sorry for the delay - thanks to all the advice. i kept the current ps, might swap out hard drives but everything seems to be working fine.
good thing u kept the old psu b/c dell has there psus specially made for there mobos so even if u did try and get anotehr one it wouldnt work believe me thats how my old pc was lol
