hi, i was in canada for three days and routinely used the internet on roaming which approximately costs $0.015/kb. i routinely can use approximately 20mb of data per day in domestic use. however, the un-billed data usage shows me usage to the tune of 151400kb and likewise totaling to approximately 300mb over few hours spread over three days which is worth a charge of $4500. can someone help me with the answer as to how can such a data usage can occur with normal internet usage (mails and hotel bookings and wiki and no movie or song downloads) even when i can only normally use 20-30mb of data in a full day domestic usage. i am pretty sure that this cannot be my data usage. is there any problem with the device or can someone else hack and use the device. or there are any other technical errors on the part of the service provider. a call to the customer service tells me that they can verify if the data originated from my device. however, still i would be sure that i cannot use so much data within such a short span of time on a meager usage. how should i approach this problem and what are my options. please help with the answer. thanks
it sounds like you have little recourse other than politely admitting your usage, since they have it documented. it doesn't take much to get up to 300mb these days w/ 3g/broadband. try to bargain with them to reduce the cost of the bill by offering to add an international data plan for a year if they reduce your bill. i know you don't want to pay but if you go this route you'll net ahead vs forking over the entire $4500. in general, i wouldn't expect much leeway if your calculations are correct as to how much you used since you knew the rate per kb prior to travelling with a laptop. best of luck. -pedro
i dont mind paying anything that is authentic. i never have any problems with my credit history or otherwise. i knew the rates and i was well aware that i was on roaming. and this was not my first experience with roaming and wireless- yes! but the first time when i feel so of the undue excess. what i feel though is that- there is some error (software or otherwise)- and my question lies only on the possibility of the existence of such an error on part of the service provider. data usage occurs on the kind of usage i am making. 3g help me open my email faster but i presume does not increase the data usage for that respective email. if i am using 20mb daily in usa and then the next day for similar usage i use 200mb in canada.....i dont understand that.
i would consider that a possibility over a three day period.
i believe your concern is well placed. i travelled out of the us to vancouver for 36 hours. careful to make few phone calls and text messages. unfortunately, my iphone was set to automatically check in to data network. at&t said i used 614mb of data during the 36hours and that i owe them $6140. they cut my data service off this morning. i have heard that there is a consumer protection law that allows a one time pass for unfamiliar use and excessive bills for wireless service. does anyone know of this? any other ideas would be helpful. mikphilips@aol.com
