i need some help on partitioning and installing xp operating system on a secondary hard drive , from a primary drive the has windows 98 se installed. i can't see the drive in the bios at all. i have replaced the primary operating system and she is booing, after trying to install the second hard drive on the same cable as slave. i tried the hard drive on the secondary c.d. drive as well. i get the same a:please replace a disk, error.with the 98 start up and i have even tried the xp automated recovery disk.. no joy:( i have a gateway that is running 700 mhz cpu and 256 mg memory. i hooked the secondary adaptor from the hard drive to the second hard drive and did the same with the c.d. rom drive... i can't boot from the floppy or c.d. rom drive. i appreciate the help, laraine
i am so sorry for the above message. i was in a terrible fix when i wrote it last night. i can hardly make heads or tails out of it myself this morning. what it comes down to is the fact that i can't get a second hard drive bootable. i have tried to install it on the second hard drive cable as well as the second c.d. rom cable. jumpered as slave. i can't get the hard drive to recognize in the bios to install the operating system. i can use all of the help that i can get. thanks for the patience and help, laraine
how about jumpering the drive as master and seeing if you can get it recognized by itself. check out how the first hard drive or cd is jumpered, in some cases they use cs instead of master and in that case both drives should be jumpered cs.
hey thanks for the suggestion. i am at work now and i was thinking of the same thing myself. my biggest problem is the fact that i can't get the cmos to recognize the drive. i am installing windows xp home. can i use a windows 98 se start up disk to fdisk the drive after i get the drive recognized? or will the cd rom be automatically recognized to fdisk the drive. thanks again for the help. laraine
well your post is kind of confusing. are you saying you can't boot from the floppy? that is a separate issue. re: hard drive, it is possible that your bios needs to be flashed/updated in order to recognize the new drive. re-check your cables make sure they're inserted the right way. it is easy to reverse them. tell us the size of the new drive --fj
hey the new hard drive is 40 gb. i am really just needing to put the hard drive in my gateway computer with a 700 mhz cpu and 256 mb memory to install the operating system for a friend. i am at work now, but i am getting ready to go home to work on the drive. i am going to master the drive and try to install the operating system that way. i do need to know if the windows xp home disk has fdisk on it. thanks again laraine
i want to thank you all for the help. i come home from work, set the hard drive up as master and i am now in the process of installing windows xp. i hate it when someone drops things in my lap. i just had to do some thinking. thanks again for the help, laraine
