so i got an antec nine hundred case for xmas and i am trying to put my rosewill card reader into one of it's bays. i have the bay grill cut-out part and the 3.5&quot; mount adapter but i cant see how to attach it to the case itself. could anyone provide any help to my problem please? case:  card reader:
i've either used the floppy drive bay, some 3.5 inch adapter or in a pinch put it into some 5 inch bay by drilling a few mounting holes then crafting a plate to fill in the void. i doubt there is any web page or manual for this. bob
i do have the 3.5 inch adapter that came with the case.  and the grill cut-out, to fit it in there.  but there are no holes i can use to mount it in. do you suggest i just drill in my own?
but why would we not drill when we see such an issue? my only advice is to do such when the case is empty so you can be sure any metal chips don't get into your other gear. bob
the &quot;1 x 5.25&quot; to 3.5&quot; adapter&quot; and the 3.5&quot; face plate. or buy this...  or buy this  vapcmd
vapcmd, i just posted photobucket links to the adapters i already have that came with it. i just don't think the adapter will work properly with the card reader i have. the adapter doesnt canter the card reader in the bay so it lines up with the grill cut-out part.
tray/face plate that came with the case don't line up ( and they should line up and mount properly ).....then try one of the other adapters. like you, i have a smartcard reader that would fit in a 3.5 floppy drive but i chose to put it into a 3.5&quot; to 5.25&quot; adapter tray (second link above) and it fits and installs exactly as intended. let us know how it works out. vapcmd
threat the 3.5in. card reader like a floppy drive, they're practically the same size. any adapter for possible 3.5-to-5.25 bay opening is also possible. your case, may need to be disassembled for ease of access for both items for final assembly. also, i have found removing the card reader frt. panel may help(most clip-in). return when done. i don't what is causing your problem unless you have an unique situation. if the grill cut-out you mention is suppose to mount, it probably requires a flat surface or direct to be flush as in left alone. the case may &quot;surround&quot; it but it should seat in the case itself, flush to the outside of bay. -or- that face plate is 5.25 mounting to surround the card reader as in extra venting. but, if not in 5.25 bay, it becomes extra part. unless, you provide direct install pictures and not part links, maybe it could explain better. from what you've provided it isn't clear yet, other than what i explained maybe the problem. tada -----willy
