hello to all! i am hoping for a little help again. here are my specs model : dell dimension 2400 chassis type : space saving service tag : fr99741 operating system : microsoft windows xp home edition service pack 2 (build 2600) hard drive 1 : st380011a serial number : 3jv94tcb size : 76.29 gb buffer : 2048 kb hard drive type : ata current transfer rate : udma-100 max transfer rate : udma-100 volumes : c :\ size : 76.25 gb (34.95 gb free) optical drive 1 : hl-dt-st dvd-rom gdr8162b type : dvd-rom drive current cd read speed : 20x ( max 48x ) optical drive 2 : teac dvd+rw dv-w58e type : dvd/cd-rw combo drive current cd read speed : 40x ( max 40x ) current cd write speed : 32x ( max 32x ) problem : i can only burn music cds with my drive. i used to be able to put pics on either cd or dvd disks. i also used to be able to put video onto a dvd (home movie) i have dvd decryptor, dvd shrink, and windows(for my pics). most forums that i have read say that my drive has gone bad; they dont tend to last very long. i guess my question is why can i burn music cds but when i try to burn pictures or movies my software doesnt recognize that there is media in the drive. i have tried dvd-rw and dvd+rw , cd-r and cd-rw media. i have also tried to troubleshoot using windows but i dont get anywhere. i am hoping there is a simple fix that i have over looked.
your subject line says your burner doesn't recognize media. in your post you say you can burn music cd's (but no data cd's). that seems a contradiction. and isn't the recognition part of the burning the same for burning a music cd or a data cd? so where in the turn of events does it differ. you can try to burn using a free program called cdburnerxp. if that doesn't work either, i'd replace the drive and try again. replacing is a rather easy job and the drives aren't expensive. kees
now you see why i am confused! i use the same burner w/out any problem when i burn music cd's. but when i want to burn to a dvd media, my software (no matter which one i try) says to insert media. by your reaction i'm getting that this is probably a user error? or could it be that the drive just needs replaced? i was hoping there was a missing driver or update.
in your first post you say you can burn music cd's, but not data cd's and any dvd's. now you say you can't burn to dvd-media (only), an nothing about data cd's. if all cd's work and no dvd's work, it's most likely a hardware issue. why are you so reluctant to accept that fact? kees
i guess i am not understanding all the different media types? i am sorry im getting this all wrong. thanks for your help anyway
