a new sb eax 5.1 surround sound card installed on intel pentium iii using d:/win xp but multiboot c:/win98se can't read the installation cd-rom reporting no drivers found at g:/cd-rom drive. d:/win xp shows the disk as formatted using cdfs (cdfs not equal to ntfs?). xp has integrated sis 7018 audio/video driver as central controller; if uninstall driver then no video? there are other codecs also present on hdd device manager and these were reported to 'creative labs' with registration of product e-mail. i have no sound and even if driverguide.com has a download in the right format i think system sounds will be absent. any replies from the senate please forum members?
cdfs is short for compact disc file system. but please take my advice and save the simpler questions for google.com. this way you save the rest of us to give you help on areas that you can't figure out on your own. this is not tech support but people helping people. &quot;c:/win98se can't read the installation cd-rom reporting no drivers found at g:/cd-rom drive&quot; that's proper. but means you need to install the dos drivers for the machine's motherboard (most of the time.) since you didn't follow the forum note: about what to put in your post we lose the opportunity to offer what driver and where it is in this response. the same issue about the other drivers. with some million boards out there and no generic drivers you have to tell us what you have. bob
i don't know if anybody else has any idea about multiboot systems but mine is c:/98se vs d:/winxp. these o/s' run on an ibm system, a netvista all-in-one destop with onboard stereo (a 217952a) x40i. the available site support drivers are in place and do not fully configure the sound card, so before the multiple o/s there was no sound. i now have sound through the daughterboard pci using headphones, but have no onboard stereo. it's rediculous to require uninstalling an intergrated driver (ie:sis 7018) to get my new hardware to be able to output system sounds onboard. i shouldn't need the new hardware in the first place, the old hardware's in perfectly good order, it just needs the right software. if the big guys up there could trust each other maybe we little guys would actually get what we pay for, it's driving me crazy.
