hi, i've just encountered this problem with a computer - specs - asus p5gc-mx, 3.2ghz p4 775, 512mb ram (x2), 80gb hdd sata (x2), 400w x-tec psu . i switch on this computer, it runs for about 15mins then the monitor displays it's going to sleep. but the comp continues running, lights are lit, fans are spinning... im running it without hdd's & dvd-rw connected. i was able to access the bios during that length of time and i noticed temp starts at 30c/86f...rises to 50c/122f, and then the monitor shuts off. could this be caused by overheating??? i added more heatsink cream, but the problem still persists. also i cannot reset or switch off the comp at the power button; i have to switch off using the power supply switch. i have encountered overheating before but not with the monitor going off. all help is highly appreciated. thanks.
adding more heatsink compound is not a fix. the required amount is need, meaning just a &quot;dab&quot; smeared on and spread about, don't over do this. got to artic silver support website for proper application even if not that brand. next, you should check your os power management setup, review that and correct or reset. you may need to use only that for any power setups, refrain from any true h/w setting if so applicable. if the h/w has a some physical setting, leave those at default or none/no action. since, you no os was mentioned, google for your required power mgt. area to review. ie: win7, click start-&gt;control panel-&gt;system&security-&gt;power options you may need to play with this, but i suggest set to &quot;none&quot; or clear all and leave at default, then reboot and check results. if the problem returns at 15min. again, check for any device settings. as for temps rising, that maybe a momently thing as you can observe before it sleeps, as the fans kick-off then the system. you can also clear the bios to help return to defaults, but check the setting needed, like sata, etc. then save before exiting(just recheck). tada -----willy
thanks for the help and advice, willy. ok, i took the pc to a computer specialist...just to confirm. it is the mobo that's giving problems. it's the one playing up... probably a chip or track or something on the board is burnt or damaged. so the best thing to do now is buy a new m/b. so this case is officially closed. anyone else who faces the same problem can learn a thing or two from this thread... cheers!
