i bought a brand new sony computer in dec 2003, pcv-rz44g, and i have had problems with it ever since i bought it, it's running really slow, freezes all the time, takes 15 minutes to start up, get error messages all the time, have to restore it every 2 weeks, can't use the preinstalled software etc... have called sony maybe 15-20 times for the last 9 months, took the computer to compusa for check up and no progress, same as before, sony sent a rep to come over to change the harddrive, was little bit faster for 2 weeks then the same thing again. but a week ago i had my friend check it and under system properties i only have 256mb of ram, but this model is suppose to have 512mb of ram. called sony and the only thing they can offer is to send me another 256mb of ram, but i feel really cheated since i have had this computer for nine months and i paid $1800 for it and it has not been working at all, i mean today for a computer like this i would only pay around $800 and if i would to spend $1800 today i would be able to get something really good! sony doesn't wanna take any responsibility at all and they even accused me for taking the memorycard out! i have never ever in my entire life been treated with such disrespect then from sony! what can i do in a situation like this??? i will never ever spend any money at all for any sony products again. i think it's not more then fair for sony to take the computer back and return my money so i can go and buy a computer that actully work.
actually i think it was 24, but the pain over the units left a searing scorch mark in my mental bookmarks about sony service. within the first week, half the machines were crashing daily. after a month, all of them. i wish we had just packed them up and asked for a full refund, but we thought sony would do right since ... it was 24 machines... a year later and after hundreds of shipments a person at the sony repair center slipped up and told us the problem. it seems that the machines were not made to run for 8 hour straight. sony expected people to use the machine for a few hours and then turn it off... armed with this clue we slowly fielded the units again to desktops which had people that could turn off the machine during lunch and that let us get some usage on the machines. since sony doesn't deal with such issues after the sale, i do what little i can to share my story and help others avoid their machines. oh, yes, there are a few that love that make, but in most cases they didn't have to find out how shallow the service centers are. thanks for reading, bob
if it helps you any. i work for a retail computer store. and a sony rep was there one day and i jokingly asked him who was better sony or hp. to my amazement he said hp. go figure.
from my experiences, sonys will work good for about a year...then they suck
