i have an old comp laying around and i want to make a gaming pc so my dad has let me open it up for an upgrade. byt the way the computer is an old dell dimension 3000 heres what i plan to put in a nvidia geforce 8800 gt for 250$ 2 gigs of ram for 69$ and a 320gig hd for 80$ my only concern is if my dell can run the 8800? any other things u guys notice lemme know
it depends on the available slots. for video cards that's agp (old), pci (common) and pci-e (latest). check the specs of both your pc and the videocard to see if there's a match. also, this being an old machine, check if can handle 2 gb ram, a 320 gb hard disk, and if the cpu is fast enough to handle the games you want. hope this helps. kees
sorry but i am an idiot when it comes to this... so how would i go about checking these things? also can a pentium 4 work with the gt?
it's at  ouch!!!. this unit has a 250 watt psu and no agp or pcie slots. not only does it not have a slot for the agp or newer pcie card but the power supply isn't up to the task. -&gt; sorry. no. bob
so i buy a new power supply that aint that big a deal? and is there anything i can do to add pci slot?
but for this video card you need agp or pcie slots which your machine doesn't have. a new motherboard could mean new ram, new power supply and a new license to the os since it's usually locked to the old hardware. bob
basically it means that you would have to replace 90% of the stuff in the computer if you wanted to upgrade... your better off building or buying a new system. -as a side note you can build your own system with specs (including the parts you used) for about $800. something to consider.
find one, you couldn't install it in your system. your system doesn't have a pcie slot. anyone that has a decent price on the 8800gt doesn't have 'em in stock. as others have indicated...you're better off getting a new box with the desired peripherals and the video card you want. to keep your cost down you could also look at the new ati 3800 series ... they are available from the $175 to the $220 (and more for some vendors) vapcmd
do ati cards also need pci e or agp?
your dell system has 'built-in or what some call onboard graphics&quot;. systems using onboard graphics use regular system memory for video ram. so if your system has 256mbs system ram ....and if your onboard video system was using 64mbs ram...your usable system memory would be reduced to 192mbs ram. your dell dimension 3000 has 3 expansion slots for peripherals but they're not pcie (the latest and greatest) and not agp (the previous generation latest and greatest) it has pci. so the only video card you could buy and add to your current system would have to be pci. that's the only interface option your system has for adding peripherals like graphics cards. given the limitations a pci video card places on gaming performance you're better off selling the existing system and putting your $$ into a system designed for gaming. vapcmd
i don't know if you've made a decision about your plans to upgrade. may i suggest you reconsider and add a few more dollars to the $400 upgrade estimate and get something more powerful and new. the celeron processor that comes with the dimension 3000 is not a gaming processor, even if you can put the graphics card you want in it. that processor is barely good enough to multi task regular office applications. look at tigerdirect.com go to motherboard / cpu combos link. sort by price. they have a great motherboard with a ge force 8400 video card for around $100 after rebate. add a dual-core cpu, cpu fan, and 2 gig of high speed ram ($29 after rebate) and you've spent barely $400 (without shipping), which gives you room to ad a nice hard drive. good luck.
the xp os that came with that xp won't transplant.
