i have a asus mobo(p4s533) with a p4 2.o ghz cpu. couple of weeks ago i decided to overclock the cpu to run at 2.3, and it worked fine. now the other day i unplugged all the wires from the back of my computer and connected another computer. few hours later i plugged all the wires back to my computer. one minute after i did this a sound and smoke comes from what seemed to be the power supply(250w), meanwhile i never even turned on the computer? assuming the psu was bad i purchased another one(400w) and replaced it. when i power on the computer the cpu fan spins for a quarter of a second and nothing else happens, no beeps or anything. so next i examine the cpu and find out that two pins on the cpu are bent. there is a green light on the mobo that is on when the power chord is plugged in. does anybody have any suggestions to what the problem is? is it the cpu, the mobo, both, or anything else? how did the pins get bent on the cpu when it is locked in the socket? why did smoke come from the psu when i did not even turn on the computer? i know its a lot of info, but any help would be appreciated.
i'm surprised no one told you that 250 watts was well on the low side of what over 1ghz machines should have. live and learn i suppose, but you'll have to be aware that it's time to consider all the parts that were in the machine to be &quot;suspect&quot;. the last machine i witnessed do that took out everything except a modem and the fans. the modem dies a few months later. never overtax a power supply. bob
thanks for the reply. i did not realize that 250w is below the recommended power. live and learn i guess. but how could the psu have damaged all the other parts when the computer was not even on at the time when i seen the smoke? only the power chord was plugged in.
they supply power to the standby power leads for functions like wake on lan. you may be less than enthused that the design takes the ac line, rectifies it (ac to dc) and at that stage you have over 200 volts dc. any number of component failures or a screw falling inside (i've seen pennies, paper clips, etc...) can cause this voltage to travel to what is connected to the psu. rare, but not unheard of. bob
there is always a current running through the motherboard because the power switch plugs into the motherboard. there are large capacitors in power supplies, which makes them very dangerous if opened by the way. somehow the capacitors could have unloaded into the computer which would fry everything instantly, check into the power supply warranty, you might be able to get everything covered
