hi! i have a pc running xp pro. i have tons of software applications, system files & etc on my main c drive. i purchased acronis true image workstation with universal restore. it's a bit difficult though getting a proper simple answer from the company to select either &quot;clone&quot; or &quot;backup&quot; for my needs. i wish to have a safe copy of my main drive that will work without having to reinstall all the applications, xp pro system, serials & etc... which would take days.... in the event my pc is stolen or the main drive goes kaput! do i make a &quot;clone' of the current drive & to have in safe keeping... and then just install the drive into the old pc or new one? or do i make a &quot;backup&quot; using this program. does any angel know!? thank you, kris
acronis gives you an option to clone the drive or do something else. let's cover use of the clone first. you asked if the clone can go in a new machine. that's not easy to answer and it's not acronis's issue here. microsoft has that product activation and when you put xp into another machine it should fail to boot proper for this and other reasons. if you had a hp machine (you didn't tell) then you are very limited to getting the same model hp for the os to boot and work since you have both microsoft license/activation issues plus the usual hardware driver issue. -&gt; let's cover off how to fix the repair of xp when we move the hard disk fast. type xp repair install into google.com -&gt; about activation. it all depends on your xp or other license. this has many answers but with the full retail copy and license you won't have an issue. next acronis allows you to save an image of your system to a file. this could be restored to a hard disk that you put into a pc and then the above items apply. i can see why acronis can't answer. most of this is not their issue. bob
hi thanks for your time... i was trying to get some help because one either can choose to use the clone or backup utility of the acronis program, with the use of a windows deployment tool. picking the right one will bring everything over to a new machine in the case of emergency. i did it once before a year ago from an acer laptop to my newer custom built machine... and i simply forgot which option to choose... old age i guess. i'll try both, and get the answer... thanks.
finally found the ez answer i was looking for: &quot;yes, you can make a clone as a replacement. however, please note that universal restore option only works when restoring an image from the backup archive. so if you have any hardware changes (except for the replacement of the hard drive) the clone feature will not work properly. the scenario that you have described is fully working. please remember to unplug the second hard drive after cloning process.&quot;
yes, the clone works. i would expect it to do what you were asking ie. backup absolutely everything. however, does the normal backup (not cloning) also backup windows and all programs that can be restored without having to reinstall and configure everything? ie. does a normal backup, backup absolutely everything also? if so, why have both options if they do the same thing?
have to install windows and the backup sw do the backup restore. cloning can help you create an exact copy of the source drive to a target drive or cloning can help you create an image of a partition .. compressed or uncompressed to a folder on another hard drive. i clone each partition of my drive 0 to a second hard drive ...drive 1, so the backups are smaller and take less time than doing the whole drive, i can restore either partition separately as needed. i also copy the compressed images from drive 1 to an external hdd just for safety and peace of mind. bottom line...cloning is the way to go if you want a fast simple way to get back up and running quickly and easily. it's worked perfectly for me for years. vapcmd
