hi, i have a solid computer system that i am happy with, the only thing i can't stand is the mess of cables. any tips on concealing power cables, fan cables? running them behind the motherboard? ps- i already have round cables.
nylon cable ties; sometimes called zip ties or locking ties. get a whole bunch really cheap in an assortment of sizes from your local home improvement superstore. they will help anchor your round cables and wires to allow for optimal air flow. they can sometimes replace screws, clips and other fasteners when securing hardware. indispensable, imo! sometimes flat ata cables are preferable to round because you can run them in the narrow space behind the mb.
cable ties along with thier strap pads which with removal sticky backs can be placed whwere needed for ties best use. there are also cable spirals or looms which route wires through them. the spirals are easist as they wrap around like spiral notepads. further, there is &quot;shrink tubes/wrap&quot; when applied you then use a heat source(hair dryer&quot; and shrink the routed wires. of course route wires/harness as best as possible and keep from hard or rubbing points. while you can route some wires/harness behind the mtrbd. its best not to as possible prolonged contact could be unknown until too late, beware. anything else you create at will as you deem fit. tada -----willy
is it worth trying to make your own cable management boxes/systems for your case?
i too hate looking inside my computer case. most of the clutter comes from the power supply wires. i have recently purchased a new power supply from:  i have no business relationship with this company but think the product they offer might solve a long-standing problem rick johnson
i sympathize with your problem. i also just built my new computer. i used a tsunami case and since it had a window on the side, it came with velcro and nylon ties. i found that tying off the power cables first, then the others was sort of ok. it can never be as neat as the old macintosh amplifiers. they were the best you could buy in the old days and they tied all the wires off with string and then sealed the box with tar to keep everything in place (the vacuum tubes,of course were on top.) frightening thought for a computer owner!
i try different wiring placement with temporary twist ties (like garbage bag wire ties) until i think i have the best placement, then use the nylon/plastic wire ties to tie up sets of wires, then tie them to each other or to hold them in place, sometimes a couple of them together pulling the wires towards a corner. using black ties hides them, colored ties are easier to find and remove. or just hide the computer inside another custom cabinet.
otherwise, u may wanna consider a new pc case. i hear some well designed pc cases have hidden compartments and holes to organize the wires better
i dislike a case that is sloppy inside and out. on every computer i have built in the last few years, form has become almost important to me as function. the first thing you have to get over is the length of almost all of you your cables. no i am not quite insane enough to build my own ide, scci and sata cables. however, just about every other cable is fair game especially power cables and fan cables. all my case fans are custom length and cover in heat shrink. all my power cables for my hard drives and optical drives are also the same way. i refuse to use cable splitters \ adapters. i have been known to carefully cut down or lengthen the power cables to the mobo. i frequently have added a lacing bar inside my case. lastly, inside the case the shortest route might not be the cleanest route. as far as securing cables if you use plastic tie wraps less is more and make sure all the heads face the same way. me i prefer lacing cord (a wax covered cotton twin used in telephony equipment installs) i like it for several reason is it never gets hard brittle and the only chance of getting cut with it is upon install unlike tie wraps. if you do use tie wraps make sure use flush cutters and not diagonal cutters there is a difference and when lengthen or shorting a cable no butt connectors soldiering and heat shrink only. as for the back of the case some small flat stock bent neatly can make that plate of spaghetti back there into something as clean as a bathroom at a japanese subway station. (hears the trick buy all you cables a little long dress them neat into a box from both ends and hide the slack in the box. also all your power cables are dressed back to this box as well. i made a nice wooden box that my monitors attach to and on inside it is a power strip that goes to my ups and a usb hub. the result is all you see a couple of usb cables, a lan cable and 1 power cable. know you want the funny part i dont own a computer case with a window in it.
i plat my power supply cables like you would hair this keeps them in a nice tight compact group which you can then cable tye to the top of the case and keep out o fdite
thanks for all your help, this will make a good labor day weekend project! will update on how my case looks. once again thank you everyone!
hi,your cable problem is not new. i've got 6 hd's in my system 3 cd/dvd drives and a tape streamer so you can understand the cable mess this represented. the tape streamer, 3 of the hd's and one of the cd drives are scsi, 1 hd is sata and the rest is ata. in order to have a better airflow troughout the pc i have cut (separated) the flatcables between each connector in 5 wires, after that i have stacked these pacs of 5 wires and with special (flat, waxed) ty-thread i have made a sort of sausages between the connextors for all the flat cables exept the last bit that goes to the connectors on the board. they look now the same as these new ''round'' flatcables for the ide and floppy drive cables, but in the time i made these cables they where not available. the best solution now is to use these round ide and floppy cables. i guess that these will now be available for the scsi cable as well. anyway inside of my pc (a maxi tower)there is plenty of space so that the air inside can move freely and cool the whole lot. this summer we went up to 40+ degrees celcius (madrid, spain) and had not a single incident of overheating.the general idea is to make bundles with the cables. regards, jos.
i would not route cables behind the motherboard as there is already limited airflow between the mb and the case. when routing cables keep priorities straight: 1. mechanical connection - if the cable is stressed to the point of pulling out, it becomes useless. 2. cooling and airflow - the real reason for round cables is not to make the system look better. the flat cables tend to limit airflow in the case. 3. asthetics - if you have a window case, or want to show off the internals there are some really cool cables that include an el lighted wire as part of the cable. i like using the sata cables with el when building a multi-drive array. i normally use small black zip ties to bundle the internal cables together and route them around the edges of the case being careful to not block airflow channels. if you are a tinkerer that will mean cutting the zip ties everytime you change out a cable, but that is really the only way to keep things looking organized.
is it still a bad thing to route cables behind your motherboard is you have a motherboard tray?
definitely, no matter what, don't ever put wires behind the motherboard!!! most motherboards have little points from the solder spots on the back side. i have seen cases where those points actually penetrated the wires and caused a short-circuit which burned the mobo and the processor! the only recommendation is to tape loose wires together. for example, the 4 wires which bring power to various components can be taped to form a single cable. use different colors for identification.
