i upgraded the memory on my pc. i had forgotten that it was in hibernate mode when i put the new memory chips in. when i booted it up, it went to the point where it said windows was resuming and then stopped. i turned it off. waited 10 seconds and tried booting it again. it appeared the system was loading until an error message which said the last shut down was not right and gave me two choices; one was to delete the data and resume with the restoration; the other was just to resume with the boot up. i was not able to pick either choice. there was no response from the keyboard.the only time the keyboard worked is when i pressed the f12 or f9 keys. for f12 it went to the bios menu but i could not use the arrow keys to move up or down. so i can't change the bootup to the dvd/cd or other location. i put back the original memory and got the same thing described above. i removed the cmos battery, tried different combinations of the old and new memory chips. any suggestions on how i can get this working again?
i'm surprised it even responded to booting and had a display. in other words, there is now a bad part or pc. it's either the new ram or the mtrbd. at ram slot that is controlling it all. it has been hosed beyond any repair. you seemed to done the obvious fixes, i would try yet an entirely different set of ram or test the ram else to prove they do work. if test good elsewhere, there is a h/w fault present. while you may think it's s/w corruption, then try a bootable &quot;live version&quot; of ubuntu, burn a disc and how it boots or presents itself. you can try any bootable disc for that matter and see how it proceeds. make sure the bios has the cd/dvd drive as 1st bootable device. the fact you can't change anything in bios or kybd. isn't responding maybe again a mtrbd, problem now. the plain fact is you had &quot;true power present&quot; even in hibernate mode and you fiddled with removing parts. the result is as you find it and again to have anything displayed at this point. try the above and come back with your results. i don't see anything around this until you test. tada -----willy
first rule of thumb, never remove/install components in a live system. there should have been indicators, lights etc., even in hibernate. generally, shut down, remove a/c power link (cable)...then work on the system.
do you know how to fix it?
