we have a laptop that has wireless to the internet, our pc and printer through a router. internet access is thru the pc. we have a modem from our cable provider that hooks up the pc to the router and the internet. suddenly the laptop can't access the printer, and the pc can't access the laptop, although the laptop can access the pc and the internet!!?? so parts of the wireless network are operative, and parts aren't, and i don't know where to start in sorting it all out. the problem started after the cable co. installed a new modem, but this may have just been coincidence, and since internet access works just fine, it doesn't seem as tho' that should be the source of the problem. any suggestions?
something got lost in translation. the what's are connected to what? let me share that the most common setup is... dsl or cable modem -&gt; router (with wifi option?) -&gt; pcs wired and wireless. your post wrote &quot;internet access is thru the pc&quot; which sounds as if you have a very funky setup. can you tell more or just supply a quick diagram? bob
sorry - i'll try to be clearer. the cable that provides internet access connects to a modem that then connects to a router that provides wi-fi for our laptop. the router then connects to the pc. as i understand it, the pc is the internet gateway for the laptop, and in the layouts i read about for networking for internet access this was one of the options described, so i don't think it's unusual. the laptop has been able to access the internet, shared folders on the pc, and our printer, and the pc has been able to access shared folders on the laptop. all was good until we got a new printer, which pulled too much power for the pc, which is older. we got a supplemental power source, which seems to be somewhat unstable, since if we unplug something and plug something else in, it'll sometimes tell us that there's not enough power, even tho' i'm pretty sure there is, and i have to shuffle around what port what peripheral is plugged into - i don't know if this can confuse the settings for which usb port the printer is plugged into? anyway, after a long call with hp it seemed to be working fine for some time. recently, we had to have the cable modem replaced, and ever since (probably coincidence) i cannot print from the laptop, although the printer does show up in the control panel. also, the pc can no longer access the shared folders on the laptop, even tho' the laptop can access shared folders on the pc. now, that makes no sense to me. how come the laptop can access the pc but not the other way round? and if the problem was the cable modem which was replaced, i wouldn't think we could access the internet at all. and if the problem was the router, i'd think all the wi-fi access would be messed up, not just some. and if the printer settings were the problem, the pc wouldn't have trouble accessing the laptop. so i have no idea where to start, and all my tech support options want $$ to talk to me, so i've just been working around the problem. i'd appreciate any suggestions as to where to start. thanks very much!
&quot;as i understand it, the pc is the internet gateway for the laptop&quot; sorry no, that is very unusual today. today we just need the simple setup of... modem to router (with wifi?) to pcs. if you have done anything else it will cost you dearly to get it supported and i can't help since it's too far out for me to discuss at length. let's focus on &quot;how come the laptop can access the pc but not the other way round?&quot; that's proper for many reasons. but since you may not want to learn all about accounts, permissions and more why not use  's free offering to get it working? bob
well ok - didn't know there was such a thing. i'll check it out. thanks. re your reference to permissions, etc - i wouldn't think that would be the problem since it was working before, and none of that was changed (unless something in a windows update changed them - they change all kinds of stuff...arrggh). thanks for your time.
well, i did download and install their free software, and it did fix the communication problem between the 2 computers, so that's great!! however, it didn't change the situation with the printer at all, so i'm wondering if there are some settings in the printer that need to be clarified. when i go into the screen on the printer (hp d7460), and go to network settings (or connections - can't remember which word they use), it asks for the wep code. i have no idea what it is or how to find out what it is. might this be the problem, and if so, how would i find it to enter it into this screen? the network magic software really bogged both our computers down a lot, so i've uninstalled, but am very happy to have communication working both ways for both of them. thanks for the suggestion.
there is an issue that can create nothing but trouble. this is why we note to use nothing less than wpa (and not wpa2) in our forum sticky. your issues could be the old wep issue. why not configure the router to wpa just like we note in our forum sticky? bob
