how do i determine the fastest processor i can put in my motherboard? heres a link to my mb-
it should support any of the 32 bit amd cpus that support the 333 mhz fsb. either the thoroughbred core or the barton core. barton cores run at slightly lower clock speeds than the same &quot;number&quot; t-bred, but perform better because they have twice the cache.
i'm afraid i don't understand- i'm not that familiar with pc hardware besides the basics. &quot;it should support any of the 32 bit amd cpus that support the 333 mhz fsb.&quot; is there a certain speed that cpus get up to before that, or would i have to check them the stats on any mb i was interested in? and is it a difficult processor to replace the processor? i built this pc, but with assistance, and i had all the parts already. i currently have a amd sempron 1.66ghz.
replacing the cpu is not hard. just be careful. the worst thing is that you need to make sure your motherboard can support the right cpu. before you replace the cpu read up on it. the best thing i could find to explain it is at this article:  back to the actual cpu--the best(and most expensive)that your mobo will support is probably the amd athlon xp 3000+.  probably the best thing for you to do is just read up on it, or get help from someone who can show you. hope this helps, any questions just post! tyler
how do i tell if a processor is 32 bit or 64 bit? that newegg link doesn't say.
thoroughbred and barton are 32 bit. socket 754 and 939 are 64 bit. newegg gives that info. the key to installing where an older proceesor had been is to thoroughly clean the old thermal paste or, phase change material off of the surface of the hsf that will interface the new cpu. then apply a thin film of thermal compiund. you may need a better hsf. one good way is to buy the retail boxed cpu, they come with a suitable hsf and thermal compound, also a 3 year warranty. the hsf with the retail box will adequately cool the cpu that it came with if the interior ambient temperature is held to a maximum of 38 degrees c [100 f]. may need amnother case fan to keep the interior cool enough.
