my dad bought me an ipad last month at best buy, but i dont like the rubber case that he purchased it with. any of the girls or guys on the forum that can give a sense of direction on where i can find a leather ipad case? i went back to best buy, but they don't seem to have much of a collection for women. i also checked online for a women's case, but i am not convinced they are made of real leather. i welcome any person that has bought a case that they are happy with. please post any pics or the brand, or where you bought your ipad case. thanks everyone! have a merry christmas.
i'm looking for one too. i purchased one from amazon and it was completely fake leather. it had a horrible smell.
i have the &quot;grip&quot; in black it is made of soft silicon but mine does not have the bumps in the photo. it is very good & heavy but protect my ipad very well, i have dropped my ipad a few times on the hardwood floors no problem. when not in use i have a red &quot;casecrown&quot; made to be used for netbooks but it fits just right & has a pocket, it has memory foam inside for added protection, unlike most out there. you have two options out there, cool looking but provides little to no real protection or dull & boring but protects. i picked option 2, i do not feel like shelling out another $800.
dumb auto fill.... from my ipad
hi, if you're looking for a luxury leather ipad case, why don't you take a look at these cases:  made in europe from soft calf leather from italy. they have been designed especially for women. hope you like them!
thank you so much. i emailed them to see if they are available in the us. i have been surfing at amazon and overstock, and i had never seen such a deep assortment. good review. well i was impressed with the incipio ipad case, however i wanted to see what other ipad cases were out there so i headed to amazon and overstock. i did find a impressive assortment of other brands like otterbox, incase, mivizu, belkin, speck. i even found some real trendy brands like marc jacobs, michael kors, and donna karan and even issey miyake. while the assortment is deep and wide, i was still looking for a clean, sophisticated design with an elegant appeal to simplism. after review all the brands, i settled for mivizu. the have great customer reviews, the product has well design and meaningful layout that serves it's us and purpose. i found an ipad case that delivered on all my requirements, including delivering a great value against some of the other competing brands. i do like, but i instead choose something a little more minimalist with clean contours and outlines. here is what i have ordered in the meantime.
hi, capulet ship internationally, including to the us.i think if you're looking for an ipad case that makes a fashion statement in an elegant and stylish way, then these will fit the bill.
