my hard disk and graphics card seem to get quite hot after only a few minutes of operation. my pc has been suffering from overheating problems for a few weeks now and i have installed a new fan, but the problem still persists (the pc will turn off after things get 'too' hot). my graphics card, is so hot that i can't actually touch it (in operation) without getting a slight burn! the hard disk is not as hot, but still feels unnecessarily hot. is this normal? the problem ceases when i use a household fan, so should i invest in a more expensive, more powerful fan? if so, should it act as an 'exhaust' or should it blow in air? i only have space for a fan at the back on the top, just under the psu. apologies for the rather long post, and any help would be greatly appreciated thanks, marc
the machine's maker? some smaller shops don't test for proper airflow or skimp on a needed fan. you didn't tell if you are the designer. if so, you get to solve heat buildup issues if your case fails to expel the heat. common fixes are to cut new exhaust holes, fit a few more fans or just leave the case cover off. there is no ready to use formula for this, but i endorse making the system maker aware of the issue and letting them resolve it (as no cost) first. bob
i don't know if you've heard of &quot;tiny&quot;... they were a uk-based company that didn't too well, so i'm no longer covered by them. in any case, i'm well past my guarantee's duration. a friend has told me it may be the motherboard that is messed up, but i can't afford investing in that so i'm likely to just buy a couple of more fans. i have tried leavin the cover off but that hasn't solved it.
the bad motherboard capacitors issue is one that creates a lot of heat and issues. you should inspect for this issue since fans won't cure it. bob
also a place for a front fan. this should pull air in. the rear fan should be an exhaust. for the rear fan, and your problem put in a 92mm fan if possible. seems that you may in england, else i could point you to a fan at cyberguys that is a very high rpm fan. remember high rpm = more noise. yes video cards get hot as hades. you need to dress the cables to make a minimum of restriction to airflow. you could also use more of a dynamic flow of air, by cutting a hole in the side panel, more of less in line with the cpu/hsf, and install a fan that blows air in. this will stir things up. if your system is shutting down due to heat look your cpu's hsf over closely. it may not be rotating fast enough. if the top of the case were readily accessible placing an exhaust fan in it is a very effective solution.
i wish there was, but there isn't... i've been told i have a crap case! i guess it's true... before, i could have a household fan blowing into it and that would stop the blue screen from appearing, but just now it seems to have happened again even with this fan blowing in. it appears the problem is getting worse and worryingly more frequent now i'm concerned this isn't even an overheating problem since my previous temporary solution doesn't even work now! i've replaced the psu, and a friend of mine will lend me a processor and graphics card so that i can work out if it's anything to do with those. this same friend suggested it could be a problem with the motherboard, and i'm not looking fwd to replacing that! any tips on replacing a motherboard?
securely to the cpu??? i have just run into two cases where one of the platic clips broke and reduced the tension between the hsf and cpu [yes actually it is compression, the tension is in the clips. lol]. wht type mobo?? is it a micro atx??? they have a great dea;l at newegg every few days for an aspire case with 350 watt supply $58 and free shipping. if installing mobo into a new case, we can provide that info. for putting in an existing case, we can also help. just some differences to discuss. if your cpu is getting too hot, i'm not keen on blaming it on the mobo. was thermal compound put between the hsf base and the cpu surface??? any chance that the hsf is on 180 degrees out?? the cpu is not centered on the hsf, there is only one correct orientation for the hsf.
see  for a step by step guide to blowholes. bob
the hsf is definitely clamped securely to the cpu, and the mobo is a micro atx, but like you suggested, it might not be the mobo and i should try out other things 1st i'm not sure what thermal compound is but there was a sticky-ish white residue both on the hsf base and cpu surface... what does that mean? i'm sure that the orientation of both the cpu and hsf is fine, since there is only one way they can fit. that blowhole idea looked interesting... scary but interesting!
1. get a turbine fan its a fan that uses a pci port to suck air out. if your graphic card constantly over heats, seat one of these fans on the port above your graphic card. 2. make sure your graphics card has a heatsink and a fan on top of the heatsink if it doesnt, you can pick up a small fan at a computer junk store or at stores like fry's electronics. 3. you need more then one fan and your powersupply doesnt really count as a system fan. try to have atleast one fan sucking air in and sucking air out. 4. to really know how hot your computer is getting when your running windwos [and can't access the bios] get a pc monitoring system like cooler masters: aerogate ii. not only does it let you monitor the air temperature of 4 seperate computer componenets such as cpu, graphic board, hard drive, and case {in general}, it also acts as a fan controller. it even tell you how fast your fans are spinning [rpm] and lets you adjust that speed. 5. if your case cant support more then 1 fan, trying looking at new cases. most new mid ranged cases [$50-$80] today can support beyond 2 fans. my xdreamer case can support 5 fans: 1 on the side, 2 in the front, 1 in the back, and 1 on the top of the case [sunroof].
really shouldn't be oozing out but??? thethermakl paste coating should be very thin. too big a glob can cause to impede heat transfer rather than help it. maybe get another hsf with a larger hs and faster fan [more noise lol][make sure it will fit. it just seems that possibly the fan might not be running fast enough. the micro atx case is rather small so i can see why cooling can be a problem. the fact that case open and external fan didn't keep it cool enough, does sound unusual. don't have too powerful a fan [your house fan] blow directly at the cpu's hsf because it could actually slow the hsf down. have it blow on the video card and memory sticks. there are other reasons for a system shutting down. one is the bulging or leaking capacitors.
i have one awaiting a decision on what to put in it. too much overkill for what i have built lately.
my pc does this too i dunno what to do i have a normal fan home fan on it as well and it still over heats ive bought this week a new fan. my pc gets to about 50degrees 122 farentheit is it actually heat that makes it crash im not sure but ill update you when i got my new fan. chow
you should allow the interior air of the case get over 100 f. what room temperature do you live in??? when you talk temperature let's be very specific whether we are talking cpu temp or internal ambient air. if you have 122 f ambient internal something is drastically wrong. you have virtually no airflow. any chance that the fans are fighting each other rather than creating airflow???
the first thing i'd check is the air temp that your power supply is pumping out. the power supply is probably, depending on the config, the biggest producer of ambient air temp increase inside your case. most people fail to realize that an extremely dirty power supply willl produce far more heat than a clean one, and if it's a single fan unit, the cooling effect of the fan maybe insufficient. if you have more than just the power supply venting air to the outside, check the temp of the air the other fans are expelling. the power supply should be the only expelling fan with a temp markedly warmer than room temp. being a bit of a cooling freak (i have sixteen rotating fans and a water block cooler in my thermaltake xaser ii) my suggestion to anyone is to start with a reputable dual fan psu.
