after few month that my network adapter was working fine something has change and it stop working the card is working on a different computer. the slot is working with a differnet card (not linksys) but togther the card is not recognize!! can any one guide me to see what software conflicts can occure and is there any way to solve the problem wihout reinstalling the os? any help will be welcom assaf
in a notebook, it matters that the os is known (you didn't tell) and who installed the os (unknown.) i'll share one possible fix and not dive into driver discussions until you tell more. -&gt; look up winsockxpfix on google.com to repair the usual spyware induced damaged networking that causes a lot of posts like yours. cheers, bob
thank you bob, the os win xp pro service pack2 with all the updates installed. i am sure this is a software problem. but i verified with spybot, microsoft anti spyware and some other anti spy ware as well. i am currently testing winsock xp fix. could a device can be unrecognize due to this kind of a bug? i will post again if that won't solve the problem. thank you assaf os: windows xp service pack 2
it's rare to see this installed by the owner proper. they expected that xp would find all the drivers. sadly we have to check with the laptop maker for bios udpates, motherboard drivers and maybe patches. windows update and the mysterious driver update button will not do this for us. my bet is the os install is incomplete. as to winsockxpfix, yes, the spyware/malware is causing such damage. bob
this may not apply to your problem, but this solved my similar problem:
thank you i will try it later today, currently i wiped all old information and nothing helped should i run the win xp repair problem ?
i tried it didn't helped it. i am confuse, i wipe any info related from the registry and still it is not recognise. 10x assaf
this is exactly how i fixed my problem: uninstall the driver for wpc54g (from the device manager). download the latest driver from linksys.com, it will be in a &quot;zipped&quot; (compressed) folder. after extracting the uncompressed folder, just run the &quot;setup.exe&quot; file. if you have other versions of the linksys wireless utility software, it will instruct you to remove that program first. if this does not fix your problem, then you can try windows repair problem. the problem with windows is that it sometimes installs a bad driver, if you allow it.
