hey all, i'm in the process of upgrading my dell pc and i have a couple questions about compatability. i had hoped to buy asus's new sli capable motherboard to run two nvidia 6800 oc pci express cards. i also have an upgraded power supply. what else to i need to purchase in order to get my system up and running? thanks, m. walsh
one major problem with oem systems like dell, gateway, etc., is when you decide to replace the mtrbd. the physical size and location of mountings may not be proper or outright not compatible as a direct replacement. what this means is you have to verify any replacement mtrbd. is rated or designed to be one for your dell system, otherwise don't expect an easy drop-in and proceed forward w/o extra effort. i suppose you were trying to re-use the dell case? if not and plan to buy or have access to a generic of dyi case source, then you're ok. last, don't expect the os to be transferable, it may but it may not. the oem supplied os is prone to work only what it was sold with, however dell is more flexible than others, but again, i can't say for your model, 100% sure. enjoy -----willy
i actually have an extra case that i can use to transfer my system to so that wouldnt be a problem. my main concern is the processors compatability with a new motherboard. it would be nice to be able to pick up a new pci express motherboard and grapics card and not have to drop $1000 on a new amd processor.
cpus, can be swapped amongest other mtrbds. provided they're supported. the cpu type, model and/or class is best described by the mtrbd. specs and what it entails. you should have available new heatsink compound to use as the old may not work well once the seal is broken from removing the hsf and then cpu. i've done this mucho times and rarely have a problem. beware, though proper handling procedures from esd(static) should be followed plus proper ordination into cpu socket. good luck -----willy
the asus is only for amd64 939 pin. when all you keep from your old machine is the power supply and drives, that's not an upgrade, it's a whole new machine. and sli is just for bragging anyway. why spend an extra $500 for a 8% bump in framerates. you wont even be able to tell it's working cuz a single 6800 oc is enough to turn all eyecandy to full anyway. there is no sli for p4 so you have to: 1. buy amd proc or 2. rethink sli i don't know if your 8250 had ddr or ddr2 ram. hopefully not ddr2 cuz thats only for p4. maybe if you gave your proc speed, ram size and number of dimms we could find a path for you.
