im looking for advice on the nas220 by seagate before purchasing. i am looking to know how this device handles streaming movies and music to xbox units and if it can do this without any issues when acting as a media server ? any advice and support is welcome especially if any members have this nas drjve and use it in the same manor as i intend to.
sorry, it failed. all nas devices have issues. if not the device itself then the owner's network and the players of the content. there is no known issue free solution today. i wish you had not made this question such an easy one. bob
ok. is there any media servers that are up to the job ? shame about the nas drives
again, none. why? because i am seeing folk get content from, let's say, the internet and the encoding is all over the map these media servers only support a small percentage of possible encoding so there will be issues. can you share why you made this such an easy question? bob
so in short we are being mislead with false advertising such as these devices being able to perform when infact they dont ! all i am looking for is a sound device that allows me to share media files to other connected devices on my network, seems like i am fighting a loosing battle . the questions are so easy if you already know the answers ? if you never ask then how do we learn ? a fundemental learning curve ! can you offer any solutions to my issue ? would like to have this capacity on my network but now realise nas drives are not the answer. i am currently using a netgear dgnd3700 router but the ready share feature i am not to convinced with either ie; supporting a 2 tb external hard drive ?
sorry that i made it sound easy. you asked great questions and were spot on when you declared that the marketing made it sound like it all works. the dgnd3700 is not a bad choice but as we (not you, but somewhere on this forum) discovered isn't perfect. one cnet member was having issues with the nas feature and their xbox 360. we did some searching and discovered we had to fiddle with a setting. this means that even this failed the &quot;without issue&quot; test. as to the 2tb drive size, netgear should answer that. my take is that most folk are put off by the mess of encoding and the rather sluggish file transfers. that is, they are used to much faster transfers. for example if you can wait half a hour for that video to copy up to the nas then you'll be ok on that aspect. then we have the encoding of the content to cover. the player, if a pc is pretty capable but today i find folk trying to play it on some hdtv and then the truth is revealed. or the owner learns about video encoding, transcoding and lip sync. bob
for the hdtv player it's a logitech revue. for the nas, it's some netbook (low power, capable and cheap.) for the other content i usually plug it right into the revue. bob
happy days, thats what im looking for
even though what i use now has a long history of things that didn't work out (the old roku hd, some htpc, too many &quot;media players&quot;) i am looking to change this working system some day. i'm considering the sony google tv since it has a bd player. just want to test it. why? 1. the bd player. 2. it's 1080p versus the revue's 720p. the revue is working well but i wonder if it can be better. the boxee seems to get good reviews but i haven't tried it yet. and strange i haven't seen one in the stores here. bob
well i took the plunge,,,,,,,,,,,,was about to purchase a 5tb nas drive but opted for a cheaper trial device.............got the seagate goflex 2tb product and have to say thus far no problems whatsoever....... all my music/movie files are available through any dlna device that i have connected to my network, happy as can be........................just hope this lasts.......
