i have a old pentium 4 computer custom built back in 2001. foll are the details: pentium 4 cpu 1400 mhz 256 mb rdram nvidia geforce2 32mb while i am not a computer guy, i am comfortable swapping out parts to make it faster(coming to think of it...i think i did swap out the orig graphics card sometime in 2005 or so). question is if it is worthwhile to make it last another 2-3 years by swapping out new components or should i just get a new computer. specifically: - what is the fastest cpu i can upgrade to using the same board. (the one inside is a willamette 0.18um technology acc to speccy) - what type of memory can i use. i saw a post here saying ddr ram(whcih seem to have won out the battle) is not compatible with rdram. can i swap out all the rd rams to some other platform without changing the board... sorry for the long winded query but appreciate any expert advice. happy holidays to all.
the cpu is governed by 2 things. the motherboard and the availability of a cpu. since it's been many years the problem is that many searched and used up what would have been the faster cpus. we can't start looking for a cpu since you didn't supply what dell computer this was or if something else, the make, model or details. even if we had that the speed bump would be minimal and frankly i've seen faster machines from freecycle or the free area of craigslist for free. i would not upgrade this box. bob
i was suspecting that much but wanted to get confirmation. i do see some used components being sold online but figured that would put be back the cost of getting a cheap new one. also, the computer was built for me by a local store. it has a bunch of retail parts. so cant give you more details than in my orig post till i can open it. i think i will start looking for new year sales for new computers. thanks again for your input.
then the make, model and revision of the mainboard is needed. here's why. there were socket 423 and 478 rdram boards. and then some boards didn't supply ht p4 cpus. for now you could limit your search for non-ht cpus of the 423 or 478 p4 with the same fsb. sorry but i'll stick to the acronyms and you can google what they mean today. bob
pcwizard2010 or belarc and they will tell you most everything you need to know about your pc components. if you have a system requiring rdram, your best bet is to skip all this an head for an up-to-date pc. vapcmd
