hello, i am new to this forum, and building computers. i just finished my first build, and there is no picture, the fans just whirr and the motherboard led lights. here are my specs: mobo: asus m5a78l-mx cpu: amd athlon ii x3 3.3ghz case: cit recon matx case ram: kingston valueram 2gb ddr3 1333mhz hdd: wd1200jb 120gb 7.2k rpm (this is rescued from an old dell dimension pc and fitted with an ide to sata adapter. everything apart from the hdd is new. i am using the integrated ati radeon 3000. they can be returned within 14 days as they are from amazon (.co.uk) and ebuyer. i have tried removing the sata for hdd. same problem. i removed the ram and hdd. same problem. i reformatted the hdd in the old dell. if i get the build working, it should display the no os detected bios message, like it did in the dell. i will try any other suggestions. thank you.
remove all drives or disconnect entirely. now boot and if no display, then something remains either faulty or badly configured. test the monitor on another pc, does it work? you can try the reset the bios to defaults, bu using the &quot;clearing pins&quot;, thus review the manual for what it takes to do this. if the monitor still doesn't display, then the mtrbd. is somehow bad or some incompatibility exists. be 100% sure, no shorts or contacts on the mtrbd. are present on its backside, check!!! alas, be 100% sure that the cpu is supported, if the manual states it is, maybe you need a bios update to fully support to the level it needs in order to do so. it all this takes too long, return the mtrbd. for replacement or try yet a different one. tada -----willy
one thing to first check is that the monitor is plugged in on the mobo. the monitor should be on first displaying the no signal fault, then turn on the pc. if the no sig goes away but remains blank, the video bios is not starting. a rest needs to be initiated. if still no dispaly, pull all the parts from the case and assemble them onan anti-static surface and connect it up just like in the case. if things start working, you've got a grounded (stand-off) mounting point. i like to use plastic or nylon standoffs unless specified to be grounded in the user manual. sometimes this leads to intermittent shorts as the mobo gets warm and grows a little.
i have tried all that, and tried it with an identical working motherboard, but no luck. the cpu is supported, and i don't think a bios update is required, but how do i update that anyway without it booting?
it was a bizarre case where a new cpu would only function if the bios was up to date. i had to install an older cpu, update the bios then it was ready for the new cpu. lucky for me i had a computer shop for this. most folk will have to return products in such condition. bob
try to replace or upgrade your power supply ( smps ) by a reputed brand . you did not mention the brand and spec of your smps
