hello, i recently built a new pc that i installed an lg bd-rom/dvd rewriter. with the optical came a super multi blue install disc for windows ver. 1.1a. i installed the software with no problems until now. a few weeks ago i purchased a sony bd-re (25 gb) to be used to store a bunch of pictures, music, videos, and docs in-case of a harddrive failure. last night i went to copy all of these files to the bd-re and burn, however, when i placed the disc in the optical, the drive does not even recognize there's a disc and it spits the disc back out. i talked to a friend about this today who told me that a lot of the bd burners will have problems reading and writing to a bd-re and it is necessary to install a third party software that will allow this to be accomplished. any truths to this or advice on how to deal with this? thanks.
if my guess is correct, you don't have a &quot;bd writer&quot;, just a bd player.
i am at work now, so i don't have the model number w/me, but the front of the drive says bd-rom/dvd rewriter.
same exact problem for me using a mac. what type of discs should be used with this unit?
it turned out the member was recording the bd-re on a dvr and trying to get them to work on the pc and other dvd/br players. they seemed to stop posting when they switched to dvd-rw or dvd+rw media. the dvr offered a means to make dvd r/w media compatible with other machines. as to an apple, i fear that since apple didn't send out units with bd capability you'll have to question the maker of that bd drive. i can't comment further since many details are missing. bob
bob, you are correct. my uncle selected the components for the new pc and is upset he didn't look at the specs of the drive more carefully. sometime down the road i may put mine on ebay or something and upgrade to a writer. thanks. jon
i think i'm seeing the end of this medium for storage. today's users seem to be very impatient and will not accept the 10 minutes or so to create a dvd or bd disc. not only that but the cost of usb sticks and drives plummeted to make this media unloved by so many. i wonder how much longer we'll see this media. bob
bd-rom i should have known. i been at this too long. rom read only media. of course it won't write bd media. won't even reconize the disk. whitemountains
