i have two notebook computers. one is for work ( company owned) and other is personal. i travel a lot for business and carry my work computer with me. during the traveling i cannot do any personal business as i lack the personal notebook. i was planning to purchase a usb external hard drive. copy files from my personal computer and carry this hard drive when i travel. i can use this with company computer. i use outlook express and microsoft outlook for my personal business. how can i copy outlook express and microsoft outlook from personal computer to external hard drive? how can i use this with my company computer ? the company computer has microsoft outlook installed but i want to keep my personal e-mail seperate and on the external hard drive. also how can i syncronise hard drive with my personal computer once i return from my trip ? thanks
any help ?
the answer appears to be no. if you used something other than outlook, the answer changes. bob
i read all that thread. very good solutions. but it require u3 drive. i just purchased a wstern digital 120gb usb drive model wd1200u017-001 i like to put my files on this and e-mail program. i am using outlook express but i am open for suggestions. i would like to hook this to couple different computers and access my e-mail account and download e-mails on this usb drive. once i am done i do not want any trace of the activity on the computer. please provide any suggestions.
why not the cheap exit? (don't have to answer.) as you may have discovered the answer varies with the email client. there is no portable version of outlook so that's a dead end unless you look at u3. bob
bob; thanks for the reply. u3 drives are very limited. only available in flash drives max capacity 2 gb. meantime i downloaded thunderbird portable application on one of my 1gb flash drive. on first try it worked fine. no trace of e-mails on computer once i removed the drive.i am going to use this on other computer and see how it works. if this works fine then i will install it on my portable usb drive. this might be the solution. also if this works i would like to copy all my old e-mails from outlook express to the thunderbird portable. any idea on how to do this ? thanks
you can refine that but it appears to be common web content on exporting and import from and to the various email programs. i don't duplicate such content here but point it out. bob
