i'm looking for help on deciding what would be best. i'm looking to purchase an inexpensive tablet for my mother-in-law. does not need to be anything special...i do own an ipad 2 and it certainly doesn't need to be anything of that quality. really, she just wants to be able to read books on it (like an e-reader) and surf the web a little. doesn't need to have the best app selection or availability in the world, but if one has better access than the other, then great. i'm looking for something around the $250 mark. in order of importance for what she would need: 1) needs to be the larger 10&quot; screen size 2) read books 3) web surfing - doesn't need to be blazing fast...just adequate. although, if it would display web pages in their &quot;true form&quot; that is cerainly a plus compared to something that will only display them in their &quot;mobile&quot; format 4) general email really, i'm looking at the following. but if there is something better, by all means please suggest. if not, can you recommend from this list based on my needs? 1) viewsonic gtablet 10.1 - can get around $250 right now 2) archos 101 internet tablet - can get around $230 right now 3) hp touchpad - i know of the firsesale, but because of it you can still get them right now for around $250 so i'm throwing it into the mix thank you for your help!!!
i'll give a link. i have the viewsonic. a good bargain but the display, while good has a pretty narrow viewing angle. and read  where they were looking at cheap and found the hp. bob
so basically, it sounds like my mother-in-laws main &quot;needs&quot; for it are very very similar to the gentleman's in the other post you provided the link for. in the end, he ended up finding a good deal on the hp touchpad for $199 and seems very happy with his purchase, and confirmed it does everything he wanted very well. is it safe to say then, that with these specific &quot;needs&quot; considered, that forgetting about price since they're all similar, that the hp touchpad is hands down a better quality product? if so, i can wait and try to catch the deal when they put their last release out, or at very worst, pay basically the same $250 as these other options today and get a better product? even if i wait, and miss out on the next firesale, i would have to think that all of these other online retailers are still going to be in the $250 range for the hp touchpad. some of the ones being discussed in the other thread (nook color, etc) were the 7&quot; tablets, and i would really need it to be the 10&quot; so i ruled them out immediately.
but the short version is that folk &quot;snapped up&quot; the 99 buck hp on the firesale. it does the basics of web browsing and reading (pdf?) well enough. it proves that folk will dive in at the 99 and 199 price. --&gt; my prediction? if you wait for it, the new kindle might be in that price range since it will be subsidized by kindle/amazon book and app sales. yes, that's not here and now but worth noting. i have the nook color and find it very useful. i would look at that again. bob
