in my house i have a few windows systems, both vista and xp and a few macs. a few months back, we bought an eyetv for the imac and use it to record tv shows. much to our surprise, it also allows us to access digital and hd channels from our cable line (no set-top box). i'd like to find a pc equivalent but unfortunately elgato (the eyetv manufacturer) does not make a pc version of the product. i want to do this because i would like to move my tv recording process to a home server and that is windows-based. i'd like to ask this community, especially those with tv tuner experience, for recommendations for a good pc tv tuner product that hopefully will give me everything that eyetv does on the mac.
internal cards:  external usb dongles:  if you see one you like, check newegg.com and buy.com for best pricing.
other than the eyetv, i don't really have a not of experience with these products. when i look over specs, it's very confusing and not very enlightening in trying to determine &quot;which one?&quot;. in particular, i do want to be able to get digital channels, even without a set-top box or antenna like the eyetv does and especially to be prepared once the digital transition occurs (soon). i was hoping to get a little more guidance than just finding a source for a list of products.
hauppauage is the leading brand of tuners for the pc. all of the cards/dongles can record atsc, analog ntsc, and qam signals. wintv-hvr-1250 has a single analog/digital tuner and uses your cpu to do the mpeg encoding. you can only watch what you're recording. wintv-hvr-1600 has seperate analog/digital tuners and an onboard mpeg encorder. it's a good choice for older pcs with less powerful cpus. wintv-hvr-1800 is a revision of the hvr-1600 and includes fm radio. wintv-hvr-2250 is the top of the line and has dual tuners so you can watch one program on your pc while recording another. it can also record 2 different programs simultaneously.
if i connect the coax cable from the wall jack directly to my television, i only get analog channels (present world). if i add a set-top box from my cable company, i get the extra digital channels. if i connect that same coax to the eyetv, i get the digital channels without the set-top box (?). will the wintv-hvr-2250 do that for me as well on the pc side?
as ramark explained, it incorporates a digital tuner. a set top box is basicly a digital tuner in a big box with it's own power supply, with connections for an aerial and tv. any digital tuner can be used to watch or record gigital tv on a pc, even a usb tuner, the size not much bigger than a cigarette lighter. the wintv-hvr-2250 is one of the best, but there are other good tuners around if you want something cheaper.
these cards will be able to plug into your cable outlet and give you all the functionality of the mac product, analog and digital/qam. you just need to figure out if you want dual tuners. unless you've got a pc less than 2 years old with dual cores, forget the first choice and get one of the middle choices. if you must watch a show and record a show, get the $150 wintv-hvr-2250 (top-of-the-line). if you're a tinkerer, you can look into less expensive alternatives but hauppauge generally has the best support and broadest compatibilty. the other cards can be tricky to get working (not difficult, but not plug it in and it works.) consider the pinnacle pctv-hdtv dongles for a good $99 solution... it works but some folks have a hard time getting it working. also, keep in mind that vista/xp media center can't handle qam... you'll have to use the software that comes with the tuner or a third part product (sage, beyondtv, etc.). windows 7 has built-in support for qam and will be very happy with any of the hauppauge cards.
