i was looking at a hec x-power pro 650 650w continuous psu. it costs only $55 off new egg and it seems perfect for a gaming rig i want to build. i've read the reviews but came across no horror stories, yet. has anyone had experience with this psu or others like it? i'm on a tight budget and that's why it seems to perfect for me also, does anyone know of a device that will ensure that if my psu fails, the rest of my hardware will be ok?
the psu is far more important than any other component in your system. it is the basis for a stable h/w demand for power. if that's lacking or compromised the system falters or fails. while many psu makers claim x-wattage rating, you should consider what your true needs will be and add room to grow on. the industry std. 82%(use 75% for quick math) of label rating is what you're really getting at any given time. the full measure of the labeled wattage rating is only for peak periods and they shouldn't on a constant demand level. if so, your psu is underrated and a bigger unit be sought. determine what each device draws in power and add them up, them seek a required psu. remember, cheap is cheap. there is a reason better psus cost more. however, since so many vendors offer this and that, a good rule of thumb, find your wattage value of your system, then add 100w to it. thus if your system needs 415w, add 100w to get 515w as a basis for a decent psu. thus, a good brandname of 550w will do fine. if you find a generic brand, then anything above that 550w is what you really need, so a 600w may do ok, but again, the make-up of the psu in question, thus why i mention &quot;cheap is cheap&quot;, above. its up to you. alas, be sure whatever psu that it also contains the proper cabling and look for &quot;safety decals&quot; and/or tested proof its ok. tada -----willy
well from what you have said, this is a cheapo psu and should not be trusted and my other hardware depends on this thing working what would you recommend for under $100? cpu-intel c2d e8400 gpu-xfx 9800gtx+ psu-hec x-power pro 650w hdd-western digital 500gb ram-kingston 2gb mb-xfx 780i case-thermaltake m5 it will need to run all these things, a rough estimate at the power needed is fine, i just need a decent brand to look for and ill do all the adding myself note: i would like to run sli in the future
i did a lot of digging on the individual parts and came up with a modest 400 watts, rounded up and added 100 watts. is this right? gpu-180 cpu-65 hdd-6 mb-200 ram-10 fan-10 rounded and +100 for good measure = 400
is preferred as compared to what you have calculated (400w) for which, the lower it is, the more work the psu will have to do, thus leading to more heat generating, which will create more heat. furthermore, sli cards running on 400w is a little too weak, and if you are lucky, it will run ably. i would suggest you looking for at least a 500w psu, for future, as you may never know the possibility of adding an additional hdd, or optical drive, or even plug in more power-draining external devices and who knows, an additional gpu card. this will at least covers you all possible upgrades in future, plus letting your psu to run cooler and quieter. do check the power output is the true consistent output or the maximum segmented output (the output is can sustain is the same throughtout instead of those psu which only can sustain a short moment as i have encountered before with my friend's)
pc power & cooling s61eps 610w continuous @ 40c eps12v sli certified crossfire ready 80 plus certified active pfc power supply compatible with core i7 - retail special savings, ends 6/15 $94.99 ($69.99 after $25.00 mail-in rebate free shipping  corsair cmpsu-650tx 650w atx12v / eps12v sli ready crossfire ready 80 plus certified active pfc compatible with core i7 power supply - retail voted best power supply manufacturer by custom pc 2008 $99.99 ($89.99 after $10.00 mail-in rebate pdf17-139-005 ) free shipping* check'em out vapcmd
you add all devices, thus all fans installed and maybe the leds, ram modules, etc., you get the picture. that's why the extra 100w comes into play plus anything left over is the room to grow. as i stated, if the rated value of the psu is 550w, then the real dependable amount is 82% of that. as i stated earlier so many makers and vendors offering, and only a small number is ever tested by some pc website like  should offer some clue. i tend to buy antec and if generic go into the large wattage units. thermolake has some offerings too. newegg is a good source and if they offer it, i tend to feel comfortable buying from them. tada -----willy
i found a 600w sigma for $65. is this a dependable company? it got good reviews on newegg
time i've even heard of them. given the cost and intended use and possible reuse, either of the units suggested would be a better choice based on mfg. reputation, warranty, psu efficiency and widespread reviews/independent testing. vapcmd
use google to find any hits that reflect on the make-up results of that model#. there are so many psus out there no one can state this or that is good unless part of a testing group or similar. what maybe good model# now maybe bad on that series on the next release. either buy a well known namebrand of get a generic that far exceeds your needs. the best i know of is  &lt;----you can count on them even they're basic model. of course, they cost. if you had one of theirs and a generic brand, you could see and feel the difference once you view the insides(visit site and checkout the tech. corner). take my advice and don't over analyst this. tada -----willy
this one is 70 bucks and it was the same as the antelearthwattsa and cm real power for some tests and better for the rest, they aslo said the quality of the psu was astounding. is it a safe bet that this psu will be alright for my build and could i run sli on it? it has 20a ouput on each rail (and i've heard you need 18a for dual 9800gtx+
you linked was a very superficial review.... here's a more substantive review.  by the way the one you picked is less efficient (user more electricity) , has a lower mtbf, shorter warranty, and isn't sli certified. if you're going to ignore our recommendations...why ask ? vapcmd
