i recently got a nvidia geforce 8400gs pci card and had it installed and working fine in a 4-year old emachines. but i removed the card before swapping it for a nearly new emachines w3650. for some reason, the card doesn't work in the new computer. it's physically installed ok, it's got power; the cooling fins get very warm, the drivers loaded ok, and i disabled the onboard graphics. device manager says it's &quot;working properly&quot;, for what that's worth. when i plug the monitor cable into the card, there's nothing. black screen. am i missing something, or could the card have died somehow?
but we all know that 8400 and 8600 chips may have a limited life span. while the big news was all about the mobile 8400m defects, that is being seen in the desktop cards. type 8400 defective on google. sorry to read about your loss. and of course, check your work. power off, re-seat it, etc. bob
it was only used for less than 10 hours. what i need to do is try it in another computer. i get them to fix and play with from time to time, as this one is. i'd rather not try it in my &quot;main&quot; computer. it cost less than $40 at newegg.
try the reseating and then you have a warranty issue.
when you swapped the video card from the old to the new machine did you use the same monitor. if yes then good. have you tried swapping the vga card back to the old machine? did it work? if yes then your card doesn't have any problem. try checking your new machine, do you have other vga cards that is working with the new computer? it is also possible that you need to connect the monitor/lcd into a dvi-connector instead of regular serial/video cable on your vga card. good luck on your pc.
the card seats fine, as i've inserted it 3 different times. yes, i'm using the same monitor. i will look around for a dvi cable. the old machine, where it worked, is now in use at my son-in-law's house. no other extra vga card on hand. but one way or another, i'll dig up a piece of hardware so i can prove whether the card is bad or not. i still have mfg. warranty time. thanks for your suggestions. my biggest concern was that it was something i wasn't doing right.
have you fixed your problem yet? any progress?
it took awhile to determine; i needed the right equipment to try things. it looks like the card is dead. it's a pci graphics card, but i tried a pci-express graphics card, which worked ok. then i needed something to try in the pci slot, so i used a pci-usb card, which worked fine. i haven't had the opportunity to try this pci graphics card in another computer, but if the pci slot works ok, then i'm convinced it's the card that doesn't work. i'm working on rmaing it.
you got the root cause of the problem. good for you.
