imac g4 flat-panel, os 10.4.11: my imac keeps recognizing one ext fw hd but not my iomega ext fw hd. both are journaled. startup disk selection in prefs does not recognize the iomage hd, yet i see it on my desktop. whazzup? how to keep the imega hd as my startup disk?
why do you need it as the startup drive? along with the mac os x (journaled), make sure that the thing is set to guid partion table. if it is not, it will not be recognized as a legitimate startup disk p
techtool pro tells me the int hd (only 80) is failing; the io hd is 250, only 8 mos old. so i figured the io hd could hold every thing with room to spare. where do i go to set to guid partition table? how to do?
and erase that iomega drive. then partition it into one partion. click the customize button and choose apple as the partition type. proceed from there. p
solved my problem: ppc macs will not boot from usb ext hd, only fw. i goofed on titling this thread: my iomega hd is ext usb! anyone selling an ext fw hd for a g4?
should be hundreds of choices today. but if i had that iomega i might pull the hard drive out of it and see if it fits in some enclosure like
platform specific. a fw hd will work on a pc or a mac, as will a usb drive or a sata drive p
usb 2.0 has max transfer rate of 480 mbits/s; ieee 1394b-2002 has 786.4 mbits/s. wouldn't iomega or wd use slower drives for usb 2.0 external drives than they do for firewire 800 external drives, to minimize costs. what would happen if i put a slower sata drive inside the firewire 800 external drive enclosure. does it still work except for slower transfer; or my mac won't mount the drive on its firewire 800 port? i'm interested because i'm looking for a fast firewire 800 external drive to make periodic bootable backups of the boot-disk on my macbook pro. i think i need about 500gb to keep the most recent 2-3 bootable backups of my 200gb boot drive on my mac to recover from disk crash or system hang. i already use an iomega ego 1tb mac edition for time machine backups. is it wise to assemble my own firewire 800 external storage or buy one off the shelf? my problem is mfgr's like iomega and wd don't give you enough details of the hard disk inside the box to compare. i'm a computer hardware professional in a past life but is not sure how to make sense of the info published by hard drive manufacturers. any recommendations for a refresher or tutorial.
i find many to get uppity as they begin the learning process that transfer rate over the wire is not any indication of the overall speed of the transfer. yes, 800 should result in lower times but in my experience it never cut a 10 second transfer down to 5 seconds. as to the slower sata drive that's easy. even sata 1.5gbs is faster than 800 so you should not see any measurable change from sata 3gbs to that. yes the drive seek time changes have more of an impact but you knew that. as to the tutorial i suggest you keep reading and reading and after a few months it will start to make sense. i like our classes when we read about amdahl's laws and think it applies here. this and thinking about this like the slowest link in the chain sets the speed. however the read and write speeds of drives are far lower than the transfer rate of the interfaces. bob
yes, you're right. thanks for pointing out that these external storage all use sata drives. unless i have an esata port on my mac, i'm getting way too cerebral here and would be wasting my money on the faster drives!
