this may a well beaten subject, but i must get an answer. i have used an iomega external hd (black series/800/firewire) for about 6 months, using it to load up with important files. now all of a sudden, it does get recognized by either my mac g5 (os x 10.4) or my macbook pro. in fact, i get the disk insertion (initialize/ignore/eject) window. why initialize, that will only wipe out all of my files on the hd. why ignore, that wont help. why eject, thats no use. please help, any advice? frustrated, now angry.
but the lesson here looks to be one about backup. these drives are not &quot;storage...&quot; bob
thanks, ill try disk warrior. any other disk apps. that would recommend? i always considered the iomega external hd as a storage device. was this a mistake? i did use the backup feature, although not on a regular basis, which is probably a big mistake.
but with each storage device we also have a backup of what we don't want to lose. please post in one of our mac forums as our mac expert will then see your issue as well. bob
backup of what? what amount of data can a recover? the iomega hd does have automatic backup app., should i consider? by the way, the hd has a ms-dos file system, with a dos_fat_32 partition type. i also have posted my problem on the mac forum as well, thanks for the suggestion.
backup is defined quite well out there. it's that copy you have put somewhere for the day your hard disk or such device goes wonky. where is that backup? &quot;dos_fat_32 partition type.&quot; that's the worst possible file system to trust for usb hard disks. i always feel sad when i see those. good luck, bob
making a &quot;backup&quot; means making a copy of the data on another medium, so you can &quot;restore&quot; it if anything happens to the original. usual ways to backup data on an internal hard disk is copying it to a second inernal disk or an external hard disk, copying it to a usb-drive, burning it to cd or dvd, copying to a tape drive, copying it to a drive somewhere else in the (home or office) network. usual ways to backup data on an external hard disk are more or less the same. generally it are rather large amounts of data, so the easiest way is to use a second external disk. i assume the iomega software is meant to copy data from an internal hard disk to the external one. not about copying data from it. fat32 disks are more error-prone than disks in the ntfs (for windows) or apple filesystem format. so the first thing to do with an external disk that doesn't need to be used on both windows and apple is to delete the partition it comes with and make a more suitable one. kees
&quot;the iomega hd does have automatic backup app&quot; backs up what you have on your pc/mac to that storage unit. since you have two copies, one on the pc/mac and one on the storage unit it is not a disaster when the storage unit dies. you appear to have changed something so you had but one copy? bob
im guessing that there is no easy solution to recovering data from my hd/external disk? are there any recovery apps. (disk warrior) or companies that i can turn to?
you can diy the recovery on some pc. here's the two titles you can try and buy if they work. zero assumption recovery getdataback why hasn't disk warrior be tried yet? you didn't tell. bob
