hi everyone! stats: windows xp dell inc. optiplex 755 2.4 gigahertz intel core2 duo 64 kilotbyte primary mem cache 80 gig hard drive 39 free mb dell inc. 0gm819 bios dell inc a09 03/11/2008 tsstcorp dvd-rom ts-h353b optical drive memorx external dvd/cd (arcsoft) burner any other info that is helpful i can provide. ok, computer does not recognize the cd burner on either drive. it will read from but no write to. i have used device manager to no avail. i uninstalled the dvd player twice an it did install the main driver. still same problem. in other words, using windows media player, when i add tracks to my burn bucket if you will or place where you would put in your tracks to burn them to a cd/dvd doesnt work. so how do i get my machine to recognize the burner part of the attatched drives, both internal and extenal??
the dvd-rom can't burn ('ro' is read-only). the external burner should be able to burn, but only if it isn't defective. so the first thiing to do: try it on another pc to see if it's ok. that's a basic diagnostic. kees
as another poster mentioned, rom is read only. windows xp didn't have burning capability onboard, you'd have to use an aftermarket burning software to accomplish the task, roxio, nero and others. the external drive dvd/cdrw is going to pose the same issue, it needs software to run against. even is the system recognizes it as a usb device it will not likely burn anything without software installed in the system.
or write cds or dvds. vapcmd
well with the dvd burner i just purchased with memorex they gave me software for making dvd and cd music disks etc. wouldn't that be the same software as nero?
i've used too many titles and they are never the same. usually it's just more or less features, menu's and interfaces vary. but there are fine free choices for most of what folk need to do. bob
so i downloaded a freebo burner program. well now it sees the drives at least but it doesnt see the disc. it give an error &quot;please insert a writable disc&quot;
now it sees the drive, but does not see the disc. i downloaded a freebee burner software program added a few tracks and to no avail. stumped.
in pc years, a 2 year old drive can be dead. bob
is there any diagnostic to run to see? however i am thinking its ok. as above i have a brand new memorex external dvd burner that i think is working. it appears that the computer somehow is not recognizing either drives as burner drives.
also there are other reasons such as media or a cluttered pc with cd emulators but i don't see that here. bob
no matter whether internal /external and thereafter, the system must have cd-dvd burning software to create/copy cd-dvds. as operating systems go, xp does not have built in cd_dvd burning such so you must supply it. vapcmd
downloaded a freebie program for burning cds. no luck still does not want to burn or recognize the burner drives as burner drives.
well this may help explain. not sure what it means but i think i need a new drive. i did a pre boot test in bios (diagnostics) when the cd rom was tested it returned a &quot;spindle test failed&quot; result. error code: 2000-0147 so looks like it is in fact time for new drive unless someone has a tip on how to fix that. thanks!
might be best to bite the bullet and just replace the internal cd-dvd. re the external...like someone else suggested might try that on another pc. r. proffitt often mentions a registry problem referring to 'upper limits' that might be worth looking at too....there are some of those posts on cnet about that. keep us posted how it works out. vapcmd
reviews on cd-dvd burners over at newegg.com. at least that gives you some perspective on how actual buyers rate cd-dvd drives they bought that should be currently available. vapcmd
