...to replace the nt 4.0 dinosaur that sensei proffit has helped me keep alive. specs: pentium pro200(two of them) 512k edo ram, running windows nt, microsoft backoffice server and microsoft exchange to provide a smooth running, reliable machine that works 24/7 on our small, 8-workstation network. we get around the 5-user thing with exchange 'cause not all 8 folks are in the office at the same time. i want to upgrade the machine, that part i can handle. i'll use win2k,(maybe xp but i don't see alot of difference) a pentium d or ht 3.0 ghz, intel mobo, 2 sata 36gb raptors striped and at least 2gb of ram. backup will be veritas be 9.1 daily to tape, sony scsi 11000. so, how do i ''move in'' to the new machine? should i use the nt scopy feature then upgrade the os, or should i start from scratch and install win2000, microsoft backoffice and microsft exchange then just drag and drop the appropriate folders? what would you do? thanks! tony
xp and windows 2000 pro will not host your server applications and the install should fail. microsoft's server os map looks like this: nt (various) server -&gt; 2000 (various) server -&gt; 2003 (varous) server. if you need more storage, split that onto a new machine and leave the dual pro with what doesn't move. bob
...on the new machine, reinstalling all apps and then doing scopy or recovery from backup tape? i think it's time to make plans toward decommissioning the old ppro girl. tony
well make sure that there are nt drivers for the new mb and video card and any new hardware. w2k server or w2003 server would be better. but it's $$$$$. if your makeing a new server pc this would be the time to do the change over. bring the new one online with the nt server and do a change over then take the nt offline. john
...then i will need to buy a newer exchange server than my present 5.5. funny how microsoft makes you buy the whole suit, not just the pants or jacket... i will be sure the mb supports nt, i hope i can find one w/ sata. i'll be back when it's built, you can count on that! thanks all... tony
