this has happened twice already. i managed to get the storage drive back when i did a system restore. now it's down again and the computer doesn't detect the drive at all. i was using my easy cd creator file to create a data disk when it shut down both times. i think that file has been corrupted. i can't even get the disk out of the drive now.
roxio is notorious for this issue. try... 1. deleting the upperfilters and lowerfilters you find in articles about this and roxio from the registry that you search about such on google.com 2. the eject bug was cured in a roxio update but many forget about that. my workaround was never to use directcd. ever. bob
you're going to need to be more specific on this. i did a google search on roxio. and all it showed me was a free copy of their 7.5 version. am i to download something on to my computer or look for an update to the program i've already got on it? step by step would be awesome!
my system is an adaptec easy cd creator 4
the eject issue is well known with that version. cured in an update, if you didn't get the update you may have missed the opportunity. i can not find it either. workaround? don't install directcd. in fact, why bother with this old software when cdburnerxp (works on 98/me/nt/2000/xp) is free and does 99% of what i use a cdrw drive for. bob
i do a search for regedt32.exe and my computer isn't picking it up. i run a windows me system.
i found it now but there is no file that comes close to a 4d36e the closest i've found is : hkey_local_machine\system\currentcontrolset\control\deviceclasses\{4d1e55b2-f16f-11cf-88cb-001111000030} and then it has a bunch of other subfiles underneath it. i'm getting closer. i can feel it! thanks for your patience by the way.
my mistake for not requiring the os. in your case, you must check the bios noted the drives plus you installed the motherboard driver package. best of luck, bob
how do i go about doing all of that? 1.) check the bios 2.) install the motherboard package
you didn't follow the forum note which writes: note: if you're asking for technical help, please be sure to include all your system info, including operating system, model number, and any other specifics related to the problem. as such, i can only offer what i would do, but nothing specific. bob
