hi; i just bought skyrim for the pc. i fit all of the essential requirements, and the game will play. but for the recommended i need a better video card. i have an ati radeon hd 4350. apparently that's not enough. the game is a pretty laggy (enough for it to be annoying.) here is the requirements it says i need. any recommendations on what i should get? i have been thinking about upgrading for a while, so i am willing to spend a fair amount. nothing outrageous, though. i don't do that much gaming. here is my pc specs.
and unless you are ready to install a new big power supply i can only offer the that 5450 can drop in without another change. and is cheep at   covers this again. once you admit that a new psu is needed you pick your card from the usual list at   has all the specs on this machine. at least it will accept common power supplies and video cards. bob
you need a video card that's compatible with your motherboard. your pics don't tell about that. common video slots at the moment are pci-e (x1) and pci-e x16. don't buy an x16 card if your motherboard doesn't support it! less than a month ago they published a new video card review on tomshardware.com:  this is considered authorative, but it won't harm to look at a few other reviews for the cards that are on your shortlist after studying this. kees
what..? the first pic is the same as the second! i thought i fixed that before i posted. here the requirements:  &lt;div&gt;here is the motherboard:  &lt;/div&gt; ipibl-lb, if i am reading it correctly. from what i have learned, the motherboard does indeed support x16.
the one to the left of the fan does not look good. could be the picture but it's a sign i look for when inspecting machines. more at  bob
might be - hopefully - a crappy picture. i wasn't using a great camera, and the lighting was terrible. there was some dust in there i had to blow out.
if you need new video card then go with diamond geeks. they provide best computer services at affordable price. diamondgeeks.com for more information.
