my problem is that my pc has lost its operating system and now i am trying to connect my laptop to my pc with a crossover connection. i am hoping that i can get to my pc's hard drive to copy &quot;my documents&quot; to another folder or to my laptop. looking for some step by step directions. can't seem to find my pc in my network places. where am i going wrong? thanks for your help.
what do you mean by ''lost its operating system?'' i am assuming that the operating system was installed and you have run into some problem that will not allow your pc to boot into windows. what operating systems are on your computers? you won't find your pc in my network places. to transfer files over two computers that are networked with a crossover connection, the operating systems needs to be running on both computers. have you tried troubleshooting the hard disk by trying to boot to it in safe mode? have you tried a recovering files with a knoppix cd? what have you tried? if you have tried everything to fix software issues that may be causing your hard disk not to boot, you need to connect the hard disk directly to another computer. you can make it a secondary disk in another desktop, you can put it into an external enclosure and attach it to your computer, or you can attach it to your notebook via a usb to ide adapter .
the error is a missing operating system. both have xp. we tried to reboot every possible way. the recovery disc offers a standard recovery and a full reformat but i would like to recover &quot;my documents&quot;. i was told that a crossover connection could get me access to my pc hard drive even though it will not boot. is that incorrect info? you recommended putting hard drive in another pc or a usb the 2 together? the usb would be easiest. instruction would be welcomed, thanks for your thought and assistance.
the correct information is that it is absolutely necessary that both computers have working operating systems to network them together via a crossover cable.  it will cost you no money to put the second drive into a working computer as a slave or on a separate cable. instructions to install hard dive as a slave: disconnect the data and power cables from the back of your hard drive (hd1). pull your hard drive from your computer (comp1). look at for a jumper pin diagram on the back of your hd and you should see cap settings for cs, ma, sl. those symbols stand for cable select, master, and slave. place the jumper cap over the two pins that designate the drive as a slave. now move hd1 to another computer (comp2) and install it on the same data cable as the new computer's hard drive (hd2). insert the middle data connector of the cable into hd1 (the slave position). install any free power connector into hd1. boot comp2 and see if hd1 shows up in comp2's my computer. if you have trouble booting comp2, you will need to enter comp2's bios settings to tell comp2 explicitly to boot from hd2. instructions to install hard drive on usb to ide adapter: instructions included with device
slaved the bad drive, saw it but could not read &quot;parameters not correct&quot; was error message. checked properties of bad drive - file system -raw not ftns??? knoppix cd????? tell me more?
(a) do not worry if you have all your data files in the my documents folder & you have not deleted this folder or formatted the hard drive. b) first step is to use a bootable cd (having windows 98 second edition / xp). (c)prior to that - go to the bios setup (pressing f2 while the system reboots)- and in the boot device priority, select cd rom first and then the hard disk. save and exit. (d) the bootable cd should be in the drive when you boot. it will take you to the a:\ prompt and its directory will show the bootable files that should not be of any concern. (e) type d:\ (or any other where you can find your de drive). this should show the windows setup files. (f) type setup and the installation starts. (g) once the setup is finished in all respects and the system reboots - press f2 again to enter the bios setup menu - go to the boot device priority and set it back to hard disk first and then the cd rom. save and exit. and let window do its work to install other drivers and files. (h)once windows has been installed - go to the networking option and install your network computer - (its much easier in xp) hope it helps otherwise for further information please ask me at: intrstat@lhr.comsats.net.pk
