hi, i just set up a 2 computer home network with ics. i'm using smc ethernet adapters and a cat 5e crossover cable, and i have a dialup connection to the internet. my host computer has windows me and the client has windows 98se. everything works fine - i can share files and the printer between the computers, and they both can access the internet. my problem is that now my host computer always wants to connect to the internet. when i disconnect, it automatically reconnects, and sometimes it dials up by itself when i'm not even around! this is no good, because i have limited access, and it's using up my time on who knows what. so, i went into dun settings and changed it from &quot;dial whenever a network connection is not present&quot; to &quot;always dial my default connection&quot;, and i also removed my password so now i have to type it in, but none of these things has helped. it's like it has a mind of it's own now, and it's obsessed with being on the internet! daily virus and spyware scans are all clean, so i don't think that's a problem, but i don't know what else to do to make it behave. how can i get control over my computer again? thanks for any help.
any dns query, open web page on any machine, etc... will trigger a dialup. a lot of software autoupdates. sadly with the move to broadband very few new softwares are &quot;quiet&quot; today. keep looking at what's running on each machine. power them off to find the offender. bob
but at least i now know that it's a common problem with ics and not something i did wrong. thanks, i'll try your suggestion and see if i can't find the offender. i do have another question about my network, but i'll start a new topic for it. thanks again!
a long time ago, there is a virus that do that thing... (you do update your anti virus, don't you?) today spyware or adware might do that (your anti virus, won't detect spyware/adware) try also using online scan... trendmicro or panda etc.
because i thought that might make it not connect even when i wanted it to. my anti-virus and anti-spyware applications are up to date, and i scan daily so i don't think that's the problem. but i guess an online scan couldn't hurt. thanks for your suggestions.
ethereal is free and it might give you insight into the traffic that is triggering the demand for internet connectivity. skrall
