ok i have a vivo nvidia agp 8x card i dont want to toss. and i want to upgrade to the good stuff and i want to use my vivo for tv as well and recording tv wile i work. but i want to play the new games and the power of this card is outdated hell it barely lets me play wow at near max. i want to build a system with both pcie and agp slots and use my old card instead of tossing it. so is this a possibility. please assist if u can
get a motherboard that can take both an agp & a pcie card?
you can choose to do more research on this if you like. the first thing might be to see if such board/s exist.
you'd have to check whether you can use both at the same time. check out the asrock motherboards.  let us know. vapcmd
all produced boards with both agp and pci express, they are almost all exclusively based on the via pt880 series of chipsets, and usually offer a pcie x16 mechanical slot, which is only wired for x4 transfers. i would suggest considering a tv tuner board in addition to your new pci express board, instead of spending a great deal of time and money looking for a fairly proprietary motherboard design, especially as the pt880 is no longer a new chipset, which causes some problems for future upgrades. asrock at a time produced an amd motherboard which offered pci express x16 (full x16 transfers) and agp 8x (full speed as well), based on a uli solution, however this board is notoriously hard to find, especially now that uli is part of nvidia. additionally, this board was designed for socket 939, socket am2 could be ammended to it through means of a proprietary add-in board, which is usually even harder to find. the setup actually work fairly well, it was just very hard to find available for purchase. i know that at one time newegg sold the board, however i'm doubting if they still do.
well all i want to do is use agp and pcie cards thats it not anything fancy just dont want to toss my old card since it works fine... i could care less about a mb with bult in crap i wouldnt buy anyway cause bult in meens not upgradable. not that you cant hook a newer tv tuner into that mb. and who knows maybe the mb will be dumb and fight the new card. all i wanted to know was plainly this do the new generation mb still fight for video dominece between ports. example back int he day if you had onboard video and a new vid card if you didnt disable the on board the pc tried to feed bits of into to both video sources. so you were forced to disable onboard video. but will 2 video cards nowadays do the same retardation or have we leaped forward from this glitch and i dont know steped forward in pc intelegence... me am just want use 2 vid cards agp/tvtuner and pcie new purdy stuff can u am answer me rationaly internet world people.
motherboards with an agp and pcie slots are not available.
