i saw this question posted in 2004, so i thought i would ask it again. i've been unemployed for too long and the current economny is crap. i have heard form an instructor at a local community college that the a+ cert. is going to dissapear soon. the main question is, is the a+ cert still worth going after to get a job? i've been playing with my own computer for years adding this or that hw thing.
the a+ cert will not get you a job in this day and age. if you already work in the computer it field, employers will often require that you keep current certifications from comptia, microsoft, etc. at their expense. in my opinion, getting a bachelors or preferably a masters degree will greatly increase your chances of employment as well as greatly increasing your salary.
upon seeing ads or clips of those looking for it people and/or techs, expect some hassles if not having some certificate. more often or not, its a way for companies to weed out those that may have iffy experience and/or no track record. however, experience can be used in lieu of certificates, but you may need to get whatever they require later. its also a way for business to say, they got certified people working here and provide a top notch service for those looking to use them. however, the a+ certificate is the bottom rung of knowledge and it appears to be more of revenue source for colleges, etc.. if it were to go away, it will be replaced by some other certification. having a degree offers more and may get you to be hired and then get whatever certificates they desire, but again, its different from co. to co.. fyi- when certificates weren't the normal when i had to take tests on my general knowledge and that too was a way to weed undesirables or less than they wanted. i guess working on pacemakers or microtech requires certain skills that aerospace and/or computer repairs(before pcs), radios, military equipment just didn't share. but, guess what i got hired by the 2nd co. i interviewed with. so go for what seems best for you. tada -----willy
