hi everyone, i have two questions but i will post them seperately as they'll both have different answers! a friend called me up as she purchased a mac laptop in the states (we are in the uk), she wanted to know about the best isp for her, so i've left her to think about her online usage for me to find a good deal but she also asked about having the laptop wireless, so she can be in her bedroom, living room etc and still get online - without having wires trailing around the house. as i've never owned a mac before and also not having anything wireless in my own house i'm a bit stumped! does anyone have any suggestions or even some websites for me to read up on? i am also looking on this website for some clues and that's how i found this forum! any help would be much appreciated thanks in advance lee
the mac isn't too different, but for ease of the setup go get the apple airport and card from ... apple. bob
hi bob, thanks for your quick reply! my friend has just phoned me (which was rather handy) and told me that her mac has on it 'airport extreme ready', she's not sure if that means a card is inside the computer or she has to buy one? i'm browsing apple's website now to find out - do you know? the computer she bought is called the ibook g4 with mac os x. again i'm going to have to look it up on their site being a windows pc gal she still fancies the idea of being wireless but she's not sure of what bits and bobs she will need, in the meantime i'm going to check out some isp's for her. i appreciate your help bob, thanks again for anything further you can add lee -x-
the usual will be some dsl or cable modem to the airport (you pick which one) and the laptop has all it needs. bob
hi bob, so her new mac has the bits inside, it's just the isp i will need to sort for her then? most of them now give you the modem for free but she still needs a router - is that right? i know nothing about wireless so i'm hitting in the dark here, lets say she got an isp and they send her the modem, phone to modem wire, modem to pc (or in her case mac) wire, but she wants it to be wireless, so does she need to get a router then plug the bits the isp send her into the router? what would then plug into her mac? or would that be self explanatory once she got the router? i just thought i'd look on pc worlds site for a router to see if it said what is in the box, it doesn't but if she bought this one: belkin 54g wireless cable / dsl gateway router is that the same as the modem that an isp would give her? or does she still need the isp's modem & software on top of something like the above? sorry bob, i know your not getting paid for your help and i do appreciate picking your brain. i also help for free so i really do appreciate your time. lee -x-
the sites of apple.com, linksys.com and more do cover such details, but it looks like this would all that you need. the one thing that seems to be a constant is that it seems best to keep all the wifi gear by the same maker. this is why, in this case i'd get the airport. bob
