would you purchase a refurbished printer? what are the pros and cons of buying refurbished items?
with new inkjet printers under 99 bucks, a refurb is unlikely. however a factory refurb (hp for example) for 1/2 price may be acceptable if you can accept that 100 dollar printers tend to last 2 years. -&gt; in the big printer market such as 1,000 buck lasers, factory refurbs are not a bad deal since again you can save 25 to 50 percent and again you must accept you may get a shorter lifespan. many will expect as new life and performance so those should never consider a refurb. bob
refurbs arent so bad they are factory checked although it just that somebody has already printed some pages so for that month the # of pages you can print will be less
long before pcs and thier kind, i rebuild many an office printer of dot matrix genre. even line printers of brute force printing(govt. checks) that took untold amounts of tasks day after day. they were rebuild onsite and back into servcie to save s/h costs. then back at the factory, yeah the real factory where we rebuild(refurbed) them and offered as whatever deal the marketing got us into. of course we never saw that end of it, but these printers we refurbed took a qc(quality control) steps that defeated poor rebuilds and low quality attempts. we kept at it for years so the market is there. but, as the yrs went by and pcs came around, the needs became simplier and the introdcution of japaneese printers really cut into us. the 1st epson was a beautiful little printer but it wasn't made to print all day and night. it was capable for simple tasks that pcs placed on it. so, to answer your question, what do you plan to use the printer for? if its really important spend the money and ghet the right printer. if you save for the right *type* of printer and its a refurbed, all the better. if not, buy new and be done with it. worrying about a printer should not take too much of your time, now and later. otherwise, buy a cheap printer whjen it breaks, buy another one, that's the way it is now. a decent one is worth fixing and on top of that it won't break or let you down often as its build to do its tasks. tada -----willy
refurb can be great. anyone that returns a pc or electronic devic cannot be sold again as new, it therefore can be a great deal to buy a refurbed product from the direct sites like dell.com or refubdepot.com. however sometimes refubished products can have cosmetic blemishes. refurb usually carries a 30-90 day warranty too which is when chances of something breaking are the highest. the best way to buy refurb is to go to an outlet store so you can see the product before you buy it. that's why the sony outlet store is one of my favorite! lol
i've found that most refurbished items come with a short warranty.usually not more than 90 days.some original warranties(like monitors) come with 3 years parts and labor.i think that a 3 year warranty is probably worth something so i would want a significant discount for a much worse warranty.
my old lexmark printer needed a new cartridge after several years of sitting in an unheated summer cabin in mn. a new black cartridge costs about $30. i bought a &quot;nib factory sealed lexmark z715 photo ink jet printer&quot; on ebay for $12.50 plus $14.75 s&h. it was new with two unopened cartridges, black and color. the seller got it free with a new computer and didn't need it.
i have had great luck with refurbished electronics. i've purchased 3 hdtvs and a home theater system and they've all been fantastic. i think it is important to purchase extended warranties with them, but the end result is you get a product for less money and longer coverage than new, imo.
refurbished parts may be good to use if they are not of much importance in ur pc. for example mouse and keyboards can be refurbished because there is not much to do with them. however if u consider a refurbished printer or any part for that matter u may or may not get the desired results for ur work. actually refurbished parts are those that are those parts that have minor mistakes during manufacturing which are rectified later and tested. if u wish to buy a refurbished printer check out for damages on the body. verify that the cartridges are properly placed and if possible print a test page to check the image and text quality.......finally buy a trusted brand!!!!!!!! check out this link to buy good products online  u can get some good stuff at reasonable rates....
