hello folks, ok i have a laptop upstairs (winxp) networked to a downstars desktop (win2k). works great. now i have a second desktop in that downstairs office hooked up to the same wireless router, but while i can control it remotely via tightvnc, i can't network it via windows explorer. wires are obviously there i created an identical user and password on that computer i can see new computer's name under the collective workgroup name i configured all drives to share but when i click on it it says i don't have access to this resource ?? what am i missing? thanks - fj
have you configured the firewall correctly? mark
i didn't think of that. have freebie zone alarm, need to put the other comps in the trusted zone! will give it a try!! thanks so much! - fj
there is no firewall software running on the new comp . . . again, i can access it as a remote desktop using tight vnc but no access to any folders, not even public ones, the network resouce is not available. is there a trick to which user id i use to configure the workgroup name? the computer knows it's on the workgroup but won't allow any access to it. probably somthing simple i am missing --fj
the firewalls on the other computers in the lan, and, xp accounts. you also have to allow the other firewalls to let the network data through. i am told, but i haven't tried this myself, that each xp computer on a network needs an account for the other computers; eg, if 3 users use one xp computer, so they should each have their own account names. the same is true in a network that each computer needs an account on the others, but like i say, i have never done this myself, so i can't say that this is definitely so. mark
the firewall up here, i forgot! lemme try that . . .
well thanks very much for the free coaching. it worked. duh, i forgot the ustair firewall! now i have to remember to configure the firewall on the other downstaors comp. well while i read every book i could find on home networking i never found a simple checklist, and i am no expert but this is what i did networking xp and 2k machines: 1) on each machine, create an identical username (that will exist as a username on each machine), with the same name and password. (give this name admin rights) this user must have a password, but for wake onlan etc i have another username with no password be the default startup user, with no sign-in window. all that matters is those common names and passwords just exist on all computers, they don;t have to be logged on apparently. 2) in win2k, use the network wizard (sytem/ network id) to create a workgroup name. have each computer join this network (same name). 3 in windows explorer, under properties allow sharing. use the window to turn the disk names to plain, not with $ sign as that makes it invisible. 4 allow access to ip addresses in all firewalls on all computers. may not be totally correct but that's what worked i think. never saw this simple list anywhere. --fj
and i agree that networking is never simple. i have my xp networked to an old windows me computer, and setting it up on my own was a nightmare. but at least you're up and running now, which is good. mark
that you an me machine at all, and that you networked it too! thanks again for the advice, really helped- fj
