gentlemen: my computer is a hewlett packard vectra vl400 pentium iii with a 1gb speed running windows 98se. the bios only recognizes one floppy drive even though the motherboard has a standard floppy controller. is there a floppy disk controller card that can be installed on this computer and what type is it? i would like to install a 31/2 - 51/4 combination drive in an open external 51/4 bay. thank you for your attention to and cooperation in this matter. very truly yours, richard schmitz richardschmitz_1@hotmail.com
get a floppy controller card which maybe hard to find. i suggest,  and check for them or google for other sources. you will need to disable trhe hp on-board fd controller via the bios. check the manual in order to do that. that should do it, just verify what you're getting when buying the card. under under hp setup under normal situations the fd itself must be addressed like fd1 or fd2, that maybe a problem if not done by fd cabling. if you have the fd in hard, it should have a twist & split of cable in order to manually address the fd drives. otherwise, you may have the &quot;single&quot; straight fd cable whcih doesn't do anything in addressing and that's no biggee today as dual fds aren't the norm any more. tada -----willy
i'll write that what you are asking for is ancient tech. also i've never found any bios &quot;detect&quot; that the second floppy drive was added. &quot;the bios only recognizes one floppy drive even though the motherboard has a standard floppy controller.&quot; true for 100% of the machines i've used (some 1000s now). instead i have to tell the bios that drive b is the 3.5 or what type i added. also a fading memory is what cable to use, where the twist goes and in very rare cases what to set the jumper to. find someone that mumbles about dos and have grey or no hair left to help you out. -&gt; adding a pci floppy card is a bad idea. bob
thank you for your input. very truly yours, richard schmitz richardschmitz_1@hotmail.com
thank you for your input very truly yours, richard schmitz richardschmitz-1@hotmail.com
