recently i bought q8400 quad proceesor and intel dg43gt motherboard but its giving cpu fan error in the startup.if i disable cpu fan warning from the bios then it doesnt give the error. can anybody help me.
if this is the stock cpu fan that came with the cpu kit, then be sure to mount it correctly. then assure you're using the proper cpu fan power connection on the mtrbd. and set the bios for such, etc., as required. now, verify if any temp setting that too is set to default(for now). check all bios setting as these bios setting get spread out all over the menu when in bios, check it out anyways. save any changes, etc. and save upon exit and check results. if not a stock cpu fan, again be sure its mounted correctly. proper thermo paste, etc. and fan what direction it blows, on or off the cpu. its important as best operation may dictate that but each vendor may follow their best situation. of course, the hsf setup is graded for your cpu installed. it actually provides info that q8400 is listed and not some quad-cpu rated, below that. take this advice, &quot;do not take anything for granted&quot;, check it and verify before damage can result. also, don't disable the warning, once properly set it should become stable. tada -----willy
are you using the stock intel hs fan ? and you're sure the fan is connected to 'processor fan header (4-pin)' ? vapcmd
thanks for the advice,its a stock fan i removed and fixed several times but still i am getting the same warninig error,what should i do now.help
since this is a stock fan, then it must be using the same wiring as its mtrbd. connection, thus a 4-pin for 4-wire plug, etc.. if not, then that's not correct. also, because you've mounted this several times, you may have defeated the thermo tape scheme of application(you did remove the protective cover?). you can simply clean/remove the thermo tape application and use arctic silver in its place. last, you need a bios update as this mtrbd. takes several different cpus, it could have been stocked too long and a bios update correct this glitch, but aware of what if any bios updates does. you problem should be a simple fix or re-running the correct install. otherwise, it boils down to some outside error you have no knowledge of. its a manufacturing glitch, mis-wiring, bad cpu or bad mtrbd. in some fashion or even possible weak psu. tada -----willy
sometimes you get an error message if the fan rpm is below a certain (user designated) level or because the cpu is running above a default temp. if checking and or changing the settings don't help... go direct to intel for tech support. let us know the outcome. vapcmd
first of all i will thanks to everybody for helping me, i have updated the bios of the motherboard and problem got solved but one advice i will give when i started updating bios the display gone blank for 10 mins and after that bios update process got started. fahad
