i have a pc using windows xp and a radeon x1950 graphic card and have purchased a vga cable to connect to my tv. i have plugged the cable in but am not sure what else, if anything, i need to do. please can anybody walk me through, at novice level, as to what i should be doing. many thanks
switch it to vga mode. what happen? some video card needs to be set to tv mode. what does the manual tell you.
hi, thanks for your reply, which manual, tv or pc?
i'd say he means the manual of the video card. but it seems a rather good idea to read the tv manual also. kees
i do not have the manual to the video card, hence the request for a walk through at novice level.
excerpt from  what's in the box * radeon x1950 xtx graphics card * set-up cd * composite and s-video cables * hdtv out cable * dvi to vga adapters * manuals display support * dvi-i connectors for high-resolution digital displays * xilleon tv encoder for analog output * yprpb component output for direct drive of hdtv displays * vga mode support on all outputs tv-out * sdtv (analog): 480i | 525i * hdtv (analog or digital): 480p | 720p | 1080i | any custom resolution so the manual should have been in the box. luckily, most often they put a pdf-version on the install cd also. have a look. with all these possibilities (and cables included) you should be able to make at least one match with your tv, whatever it is. kees
i didn't install this graphics card nor inherit the manual and installation cd. as i mentioned, novice level is required, please can anybody explain what i need to do?
find the right cable, the right connector on your tv, the right connector on your card and the right settings on both devices. that's all. without manuals and cd's it's somewhat more difficult than if you should have them. the basic rule: try using the same connector on both ends (be it analog, hdmi, scart, dvi or composite video). sorry to be of no more help. if you can't find out, take your pc and the manual of your tv with you to the shop and ask them for the right cable. that might be a good start. then explore the settings of your video card. kees
