i am unable to make up my mind whether i should buy a computer right now or wait a little bit longer so that i may get a better and more advanced computer. it's been over 5 yrs. since i bought my last one.i have a 667 mhz , 64 mb ram computer with integrated graphics which still works okay but cannot play games older than quake 3. anyone in here got any idea of the things to come:- i mean the advancements taking place in processors, ram , graphics ,etc.? if so please tell me about it!!! i don't wanna buy a computer that gets obsolete in a yr. or two.
two big changes are coming up, imo: new am2 socket, the last socket 939 cpu is already out. that is coming on 06/06 microsoft vista: the newest windows os in a few years, minus the yearly media centers. it comes out later this year, but most systems in a few months should work well on vista... soon, companies will start marking systems &quot;vista-ready&quot; but i am very patient. these are coming in months, not weeks, months. most higher-endish computer should work good on these systems, but i give no 100% garauntee.(sp?) i would at least wait for socket am2, as 939 is dying. not saying current 939 sytems are slow, god no, but they have a limited and slowly dying upgrade path. ~ibrahim~
i concur with ikjadoon. if you can wait 9-months to a year, and are interested in buying an amd system (which is generally faster, cheaper, but only from much less common vendors) with microsoft windows vista installed as the os, then you should definitely wait. new graphics cards are coming every couple of months, so there is that plus to waiting. the only really good reason not to wait would be if you don't care about amd or windows, or if you need a new pc immediately. if your desire to upgrade is only to play better games, then i would counsel waiting 9 months - year. there may be some good new games developed for vista when it comes out at end of year, another plus.
unless you're a fanatic gamer and need huge amounts of power my suggestion would be to buy technology that has been generally available for &gt; 6-9 months; and buy a level of operating system that has had some time to get the major bugs worked out. key advantage is that the price of the hardware has started dropping because it's superceded by the newer &quot;gee whiz&quot; gear. today that would give you at least a 3-4ghz processor and a 160gb drive plus a dvd burner, and your supplier would probably throw in a lowend laser printer or photo-printer as well. and you'd be using win xp. some readers might accuse me of being a luddite -- but that approach has kept my computing costs low with reasonably good performance.
hi arrow new computer or upgrade: ''the right time to buy is when you need it!'' &gt;&gt; that is really the only factor. every day you hear about something new and often it sounds better than what you have now. i still have my 1st computer, works with twin 360k floppy disks and no hard drive. was great!... but when we could stop swaping floppies over and over by upgrading to an xt with a 10 megabyte hard drive; it was a no brainer. today you can buy a whole computer for what we paid for a ''pentium 75 cpu'' to use in our first custom built gamer. we average upgrading every few years, and sometimes several minor upgrades in between. all of these are based on ''when we need it!; and what is needed''. i can guarantee you that someday we will have computers that you can ask about someone or something and get the right answer: just like on ''startrek''. you can wait until that is available if you want to: but what will you be doing while you wait? using a typewriter? maybe a lot of stick-up notes? if you want to wait i can even send you one of our old systems. you pay the shipping. what do you want? a 286, 386, or maybe even an amd k6. we probably still have that ''pentium 75 cpu'' too. give you 90% off and throw in the rest of a computer with it. so the bottom line is ''know what you want a computer to do and then find one that does what you want now'': or wait for it to be created. make it a good day! metaphil
im in desperate need for a new gaming computer and have a very limited budget. i can't afford to look at the new high end computer componants. if your pc is starting to die i would think about getting one asap. stick to the reputable components like popular graphics card (eg geforce 6800)and amd athlon 64bit 3200+ cpu. this sort of setup will be good for gaming today (although you might not be able to run on full detail)and will be cheap as bigrinoz explained. just you make sure you get components that can be upgraded at a later date, like a motherboard that supports dual cpus and high amounts of ram (4gb) and graphics cards that support sli (although ive heard that sli is a right pain). general rule (for me anyway) - buy now, but buy upgrade friendly components so you will be ok in a couple of years. (ps. my first post!)
i agree that using technology that is a few months old can give you some very good value, you might also plan to take advantage of opening day specials when windows vista is finally released. for the last two major releases (xp and me) microsoft and/or store vendors have put together some very attractive bundles with both hardware and other software packages which were only available on release day. my personal experience is that i was able to perform some significant upgrades on my existing computers (cd burners, dvd drives, hard drives, video cards, memory, ms plus, antivirus software and more) since my computers were only a few months old at the time. in both cases, i got at least the value of the windows software in useful upgraded hardware and software. another potential option if you want to be the first with windows vista on your block is to possibly order your computer slightly before the official release of vista. i think i remember (maybe just getting old and forgetful though) that xp was actually available on new computers slightly before the official release of the software in stores. if you are planning on buying from a major computer vendor, such as dell or gateway, you could always check with them as the vista release date approaches on exactly when the new operating system will be available on new computers. good luck!
two months ago i bought a midrange laptop... two weeks later i see it $300au cheaper at another store. but i don't care because its to be expected. (please note, our main computer is a pentium 166.) something new is always going to come out, but if you wait and wait and wait... your just going to get nowhere. computer progress wont just halt for people to buy them. forget about future technologies. they arent here yet. if you feel you need a new computer, just get one.
ive bought several computers over a 20 year period. if you think youre only going to buy once, your kidding yourself. buy the most bang for the buck. technology changes and with that comes demand. if you wait, youll never buy, and then give up on the chance of the computing world as we know it. like email phishing, viruses, hackers etc...just kidding. regards, bob
however, i have decided to wait until vista comes out before purchasing a new one..having an older operating system does make your new computer seem obsolete much faster! mr. gates has enough money, i am not gonna pay for xp now and then upgrade to vista later on! have 2 older computers that still function, in about a year i will buy a new amd machine of some sort..
the fact is, a computer is a tool. if you had a home improvement project to undertake and you needed a new electric drill, would you wait around to get one with better battery life, quicker charging time, more torque, etc. - or would you just go out and buy one? it's the same idea, really. there will *always* be something better right around the corner. but the &quot;value&quot; in a computer lies in the usefulness you get out of it while using it. i've been in the computer field for around 15 years now, and truthfully, i haven't seen any real correlation between what a customer initially purchased and how long that customer kept using it. people keep saying they're &quot;waiting for technology x&quot; to arrive so their purchase will &quot;last them a couple more years&quot; before they need to upgrade again. still others try to justify buying &quot;more computer than they really need&quot; with the same idea in mind. but after a few years go by, you see the same thing happening. the &quot;power user&quot; types (and those who just have to own the latest thing for the &quot;bragging rights&quot; of it) feel like it's time for another upgrade in 2-3 years anyway. most of the others just get by with whatever they bought for long after other people keep telling them it's &quot;way out of date&quot;.
heck, if you need the system then buy what suits you. things are going to change soon enough once ms vista becomes available and h/w, etc will need to change over or adapt to it. it will be the next driving force of the windoze based systems. though you can skip along to keep up it maybe a waste to buy a budget system when vista will practically demand higher end componets and/or resources, so it may well pay to wait until it is available. as i see it a decent xp system is pretty awful to leave just to get the next new os. alot depends on your needs so decide. if this isn't a critial time then wait otherwise buy. understand also things change relativly quickly in computers now, so buy what you truly &quot;need&quot; and alittle to grow on. tada -----willy
accept that and buy what you want today. if you keep your computers for several years most of the parts will be different/incompatible regardless of whether you wait a bit. if you want a faster socket am2 cpu in a year or two you'll probably want a new motherboard with the latest chipset to go with it, along with higher-grade ram that'll be much cheaper by then. i'd get an athlon 64 x2 cpu, 1gb or 2gb of ram, preferably a nvidia chipset (gateway's new retail store machines look interesting), and should integrated graphics prove inadequate drop in a geforce 7600 pcie card in a month or two when they come out (should be a good midrange card, or go straight to the 7900 if your power supply can handle it). get a good 19&quot; or larger lcd monitor. gateway's 21&quot; widescreen lcd looks very interesting. if you ever buy a hdtv tuner, or even just play dvds, you'll appreciate widescreens. that will be enough for 64-bit windows vista late this year (2gb ram preferably, ram is cheap, easy to upgrade later though). you'll want the dualcore x2 cpu. there's a lot to be said for custom-building your own pc but these days it's cheaper to buy a prebuilt machine at the big box retailers when they're on sale. i custom build because i'm constantly upgrading components. ymmv.
i'm hopeing that my 2002 computer keeps going until i can replace it with a vista preinstalled system. i don't want another computer with winxp preinstalled, because it seems to be a fundementally insecure operating system. (and no, i don't want an apple computer, and i don't want to change to linux.)
what makes you think that vista will be any safer than xp was after it was initially released???
i like to upgrade every 2-3 years, at least my box. i seem to be able to get a monitor to last longer... my approach is to buy last years technology that is closing out at good prices today. the advantage for me is that i'm upgrading steadily, but not at the cost of buying today's latest and greatest machines. also, i'm not the guinea pig having to discover and work out the bugs on the &quot;latest and greatest&quot;. i like to watch the forums and reviews and see what others' experiences are, so i can make an educated choice when i do purchase something. i like the reviews from regular users, in addtion to the &quot;official&quot; reviewers. i'm not so sure about the new operating system that's coming... (i hear there may be some tradeoffs) but i know what to expect from xp and it works great as far as i'm concerned. is the new operating system something really good for us users? or is it just another way for companies to make a ton more money? i think waiting a long time and trying to get the &quot;perfect&quot; machine is like torture, and puts too much weight on the decision. i don't need my decision to last 5 or 10 years. i know i'm going to be upgrading again in a couple of years, or maybe sooner if it turns out one of the newer machines has a feature i really like. the reality for me has been that the newer machines have some gains but also some losses, like you mentioned... losing the use of some old software that you like, but the new systems don't support. gains in processing speed and storage space can be irrelevant if your favorite software won't even run on the system. as others have mentioned, it really depends on what you want to accomplish. how much money do you have to spend? i figure on about around $300/year keeps me moving forward technologically at what feels like a cost i'm willing to pay. at that rate, i don't feel so bad if the system i get isn't &quot;perfect&quot;, plus, i know it's temporary. right now, i have my eye on the emachines amd64 3500+ machine. it packs a lot of power for the price. it was being demonstrated at best buy one day, running one of the most popular war games with ease. this machine, with a meg of ram was available for around $500. for my money, that's a lot of computing power. if money were no object, i'd shoot for a more advanced gamers machine with the specialty graphics card etc. i'd expect to spend over a $1000 for such a machine. but i wouldn't expect to upgrade this type of machine every other year like i do with the less expensive ones i buy. by the way, emachines have had some challenges with reliability in the past, but they have gotten a lot better in recent years. personally, i've owned a couple with only minor problems with heavy usage. i have no problem buying that brand if it's great value. if hp has a machine that matches up and it's only slightly more..... i would go with hp. i like hp. my current box is a compaq, my 3rd compaq, and it's fine, too. finally, i wouldn't ever buy used when there are such great deals on excellent systems being closed out to make way for the &quot;latest and greatest&quot;. happy hunting!
buy now. the most important thing to remember about aiming at a moving target is to take a shot. the pc market will always be in flux and the next great shiny new thing will always be around the corner. you can continue to lead it forever until its gone. but if you had taken that shot youd probably be enjoying a feast today. and yes the bright new shiny technologies will have their flaws, they always do. only time in the hands of millions of consumers and hopefully feedback and fixes will improve any new toys maturity. in your case, i'd say take that shot now. there is nothing magical about the new processor or os that should make you wait. they will not be an end all. they will simply be another stepping stone in this endless flow. whether those stepping stones will be short lived or not cannot be known until they come out and are in the hands of millions. this is more so for the os than the cpu. but given what you have today, i'd say its past time to make that leap. if you do choose to wait to buy the new stuff, i'd say wait a good 6 months after the processor is released and a good 18 months after the os is released. alternatively, you can wait until they are released to drive down the cost of todays bright new shiny toys. i always assume that when i buy the latest and greatest i am going to essentially be a beta tester. sometimes i want to and sometimes i don't. if you are feeling like you want to pay through the nose for the privilege of being an unpaid beta tester for these new technologies, then by all means wait and buy the new toys when they first come out. in this case, i dont think they offer that much for me to pay for that privilege. id buy now, let the new stuff mature and buy later.
you would be &quot;waiting&quot; forever. i have read through all of the responses to your question and while everyone who replies to a call for help thinks that the advice they have given is correct, it is not quite always so, or at least not quite accurate. i don't mean to offend anyone and while i'm sure that some of my advice has caused others to roll their eyes, the advice given by everyone is because it is what the people believe to be true, in their own experiences. i agree with quite a bit of what was said but a lot of it will depend on how knowledgeable you are and how much experience you have, as to whether it will help you. first off, you need to decide how serious of a &quot;gamer&quot; you want to be or if you are just trying to &quot;catch up&quot; to the technology. if it is serious gaming that your after, i'm afraid you will never be up to date as games are created faster than the average person can afford to update their hardware to match. also, for gaming, it is going to cost at lot more than if you are just using a computer for everyday &quot;stuff&quot;, at least if your serious about gaming. you decide. next, the os. i give those unafraid souls who go through the trials & tribulations of any new operating system great credit. without them none of the bugs would be found and (if they can) fixed. i have used every os since dos 2.0 with the exception of me and nt and i have always waited for at least a year (except with dos) or longer, to wait for the bugs to be worked out (which has never really happened anyway). right now i use xp pro on my main system and windows 98 se on my other computers. my reason for that is that i wanted xp for the video work capabilities and i like 98 the best, for ease of use (i configure xp to look like 98!). as for vista, i won't even think about it for a year or two, if at all. one thing to bear in mind when buying a computer from a store is that 95% of the time (or higher), you only buy the rights to use the os that has been pre-installed and do not get a system disk with the computer. and if you have your own disk at home already, you don't need it pre-installed anyway (along with most of the other crap that is installed). i have also found that i can build a system cheaper than i can buy one, usually with some better features. now, i realise that not everyone is comfortable with building their own but in my experience, it is the best way to go. i always compare a deal from one of the big stores (the ones that always show the price after your mail-in rebate), and then price out the same or comparable system from my supplier ( the thing with buying one of these &quot;deals&quot;, is that you have to ask yourself if you need all the extras that usually come along with it. so, my advice to you, from my experience, is to determine what you want to do right now with a computer, shop around at the bigger stores and go to the smaller computer stores as well, decide if you want to start to learn more and build one yourself, decide how much you want to spend to start and then get it. the biggest problem that one encounters is that no matter how &quot;up-to-date&quot; the hardware is that you get now, it will be &quot;out-of date&quot; within a few months. there is always something bigger, faster and &quot;better&quot; coming out, so it is virtually impossible to keep &quot;up-to-date&quot;. there really isn't a &quot;correct&quot; answer to your question or a wrong answer for that matter. it just boils down to what you want and if you are willing to learn new things and to take some chances on your own abilities. what works for me will not always work for the next guy or gal and for every positive argument or suggestion there is always a negative one as well. i could continue to go with the pros and cons of all the hardware, software, etc., but it really wouldn't help a lot if you don't understand all that is being said. research is your best weapon. best of luck and remember: there are no stupid questions if you do not know the answers!
that can be a tough question, but if consider a few factors you can usually come to a decision. first, does the computer you have now meet all of your needs or at least enough of them to satisfy you? second, if the answer to the first question is no, then what is your budget for buying a computer? third, make a list of the specs you require or want and compare it and your budget to the various deals you find either in a store or online. finally, when you found some that fit into those parameters, check out what various forums, review sites and even friends to see what they think about them. then weigh all of these factors and see which one or ones come out on top. sometimes you may have to compromise a little either on specs or budget to get the computer that best meets your needs. also, keep in mind that spending a little more money on a system that is more readily upgradable can prove worth your while in the future when technology changes. hope this helps.
the real question is, how much money do you want to spend on a computer now. everyone wants to live out there on the bleeding edge of technology, but few of us can. you are in the unique position of living at a major change in technology. you could buy now and get the top of the line 32 bit pcs for a reasonable price, or (as i would advise) waite a while, let the new 64 bit, dual core pcs come down in price, and buy one of them. let intel and amd fight it out and buy the winner. the 64 bit is the future. i say look forward, because standing still is going backward. remember, buy the best computer core (mother board, cpu, and memory) you can afford. you can always add to it as your finances permit.
i think it's best to buy an inexpensive computer every year and sell the old one (usually on ebay). i like to buy refurbished machines on ebay, compusaauctions.com, or ubid. i can save 25% or more over retail. my current computer is an hp 3800+ that i paid $525 for (retail was $719). i sold my hp 3400+ for $400. my total upgrade cost this year was only $125.
in just few months by both intel and amd, that are not backwards compatible. for example, i understand windows vista is going to be 64 bit operating system (32 bit available? for how long?) and amd is or has just lauched am2 64 bit processor that needs a new motherboard to go with. it seems that in general graphics cards evolve faster than other hardware these days, but most of that processing power is really used only in the latest games. at the moment there are not that much of software that can utilise 64 bit processors, especially dual core ones (and not too long we most likely see 4 core ones), but soon the situation may be that new software comes with two flavours for 32 and 64 bit processors. as intel has stopped producing 32 it processors (correct me if i'm wrong) i don't think microsoft produce or support software for 32 bit machines much longer - especially with the lauch of vista. if your money is burning in your pocket, buy at least a computer with 64 bit processor. amd's socket 939 is the ''latest'' of old architecture but you can buy the cheapest 64 bit processor now and wait for the dual core processors to drop prices further - a simple bios upgrade will allow the change. or you could just buy a new motherboard kit (motherboard, processor and ram) and keep the rest of the hardware from your old system, giving you a litle extra towards a best graphics card you can afford. many companies offer special price for these kits and it guarantees that the hardware will be compatible. make sure the motherboard has pci express port for the graphics card, for ''future proofing''. i am pretty much of a novice when it comes to computers, but if i can do a simple upgrade, anyone can! there is very little that go wrong these days, as long as you have done your homework about compatibility of a few things, and there is plenty of help availale on internet. usually vendors are also happy to give you advice if there is a known problem with the compatibility of your chosen componenets. with upgrading/building your systemm yourself, there is also the satisfaction of knowing the innards of your computer and you are not tied to one sellers choice. it also allows you to spread the cost, meaning that you can afford better quality than if you bought the whole system all at once. formatting a hard disk, maybe even installing os can be a bit daunting but you could pay a small sum for a friendly computer repair shop to do this for you, if you cannot enlist a friend. as for future proofing, there is no such thing! my rule of thumb is to buy the best system you can afford, for your needs now.
there are big changes coming in just few months by both intel and amd, that are not backwards compatible. for example, i understand windows vista is going to be 64 bit operating system (32 bit available? for how long?) and amd is or has just lauched am2 64 bit processor that needs a new motherboard to go with. it seems that in general graphics cards evolve faster than other hardware these days, but most of that processing power is really used only in the latest games. at the moment there are not that much of software that can utilise 64 bit processors, especially dual core ones (and not too long we most likely see 4 core ones), but soon the situation may be that new software comes with two flavours for 32 and 64 bit processors. as intel has stopped producing 32 it processors (correct me if i'm wrong) i don't think microsoft produce or support software for 32 bit machines much longer - especially with the lauch of vista. if your money is burning in your pocket, buy at least a computer with 64 bit processor. amd's socket 939 is the ''latest'' of old architecture but you can buy the cheapest 64 bit processor now and wait for the dual core processors to drop prices further - a simple bios upgrade will allow the change. meanwhile, your 64 bit processor is just as happy to work with your 32 bit software, including os. while the latest technology is expensive at first (and maybe buggy), and there is not that much of choice of hardware (motherboards etc) the price of slightly older hardware will become more affordable. or you could just buy a new motherboard kit (motherboard, processor and ram) and keep the rest of the hardware from your old system, giving you a litle extra towards a best graphics card you can afford. many companies offer special price for these kits and it guarantees that the hardware will be compatible. make sure the motherboard has pci express port for the graphics card, for ''future proofing''. i am pretty much of a novice when it comes to computers, but if i can do a simple upgrade, anyone can! there is very little that go wrong these days, as long as you have done your homework about compatibility of a few things, and there is plenty of help availale on internet. usually vendors are also happy to give you advice if there is a known problem with the compatibility of your chosen componenets. with upgrading/building your systemm yourself, there is also the satisfaction of knowing the innards of your computer and you are not tied to one sellers choice. it also allows you to spread the cost, meaning that you can afford better quality than if you bought the whole system all at once. formatting a hard disk, maybe even installing os can be a bit daunting but you could pay a small sum for a friendly computer repair shop to do this for you, if you cannot enlist a friend. as for future proofing, there is no such thing! my rule of thumb is to buy the best system you can afford, for your needs now.
i don't upgrade often, don't buy bleeding edge technology, and keep my pcs in service for several years (typically more than 5). i do this by gradual upgrades. i've found a local white-box store that will configure a system to my specifications and needs. they're not cheap because my requirements are complex, but the resulting systems are almost always a lot less expensive than those from the brand-name places. usually this process starts with choosing (with their help) a motherboard with the fastest available fsb that is compatible with a really fast cpu, with a really cheap cpu and with more ram than i'll ever need. then i add the very slowest and cheapest cpu compatible with that board and the least memory possible to run the operating system. i try to buy a stand-alone version of the os so i can (re)install it myself as needed. add peripherals as needed (be sure to include a floppy drive -- they're too cheap to leave out) and a linux-compatible modem so i can convert it to a linux box for use with a few dial-up sites when it becomes too obsolete. then i monitor the cpu and ram prices for the next two or three years. when they come down far enough, i max out the board. in the end, this can be less expensive. for example, my current box is maxed out with a 2.8 ghz p4; when i first bought it, i got a 1.7 ghz celeron for $120 (iirc) when the 2.8 ghz p4s were selling for somewhere between $700 and $900. a few years later, i replaced the celeron with a 2.8 ghz p4 for around $200 (plus a pitiful trade-in on the celeron) and in the process upgraded from a 400 mhz fsb processor to a 533 mhz fsb processor. total outlay for cpu: $320 rather than somewhere between $700 and $900. i also quadrupled the ram because those prices had also come down. in addition, of course, i upgraded the various drives as needed and as new technology became available. meanwhile, i converted my old box (acquired in 1999) into a dual-boot w98 se / suse linux 8.1 pro box and still use it.
so far i have an aging computer; it's not as aged as many but there are some problems i dispise... namely the burnt-out ram slot on my 4-year-old motherboard. the board is no longer manufactured, 2.0 ghz celerons are obsolete, as is my graphics card, a nvidia fx5200. tbough i don't need a new pc right-out, i know what i will need. i will probebly utilize new technologies, such as the mobile 64bit processors, and upgradable laptop graphics cards. i also don't want some dull little notebook, so i'm choosing a more expensive, high-end manufacturer, alienware. though many people avoid alienware, because of prices and bad reviews, remember they test the machine more than other companies will test their machines. this leads to a more stable system, which is a very good thing! however, i know my requirements for what i do, and i have calculated release times on new software based on past releases. for example, the sims 2 was released in 2004, each ep about 9 monthes later. however, the sims 1 was released in 1999. this leads me to believe that, if they stay on scedule, the sims 3 should be released by 2009. i'm going away to college in 2009, so it's a no-brainer that i choose to go with a less expensive xp machine, which i will keep for ubuntu linux when xp is obsolete. also, remember popular release dates. 98se, very popular, was released in 1998, replaced totally by xp in 2004. that is a 6 year life. xp is on year 3 right now, half through it's reign. the choice is yours. i explained how i came about mine.
hello there, i am our companies it purchasing tech. i can tell you that if you are interested in a dell computer - the best offers they make are in january of each year. so, if you are looking to buy a computer in say, november - i would wait until january. if you are looking in say, february - you probably won't want to wait that long. also, at least with their business division, they seem to have much more leeway when it comes to shipping costs so i would definetly &quot;ask&quot; if you are speaking with a &quot;live&quot; dell sales person. good luck!
i, like a lot of folks, watched the ads for computers for a long time and just couldn't get a feel for the right time to buy because you don't have to be a genius to see computers selling for a few hundred dollars less today than they were a year ago, but the reality is that if you really want a computer, you're going to have to get your feet wet sooner or later and the march of technology shows no signs of slowing down. i wasn't completely clueless when i went to buy my computer because i had at least been using them at work and at school for nearly two decades, but i was somewhat overwhelmed when i began to look at all the options and had to consider specifications that had never entered my mind before. so, i started my computer shopping asking salespeople what would be the right computer for me because i'm really only want it for this and i really will never do that and the response i got was that no one could really make recommendations on that kind of information, which confused me a little. then i remembered the good old days of audiophile stereo component systems and how i used to discourage others from buying systems that were ''good enough.'' the reason being that if you've been listening to your music on a $50 record player, you really don't know what your expectations will be like when you finally spend a few hundred on a system that seems ''good enough.'' i'd always say go a few notches higher than what is ''good enough'' and make sure you have enough flexibility to accommodate practical upgrades along the way. that put it in perspective for me and i went back to shopping with a much better frame of mind. no longer was i looking for the computer that was right for me on that day, but the computer that would be right for me two years later. i didn't buy the most expensive one in the house, but i did get the one just below it and i haven't been sorry. yeah, i can buy a computer with specs about the same as mine for a few hundred dollars less today, but i have been using my computer for these last two year and not just reading computer reviews and browsing computer stores and i'm confident that my system will accommodate vista. i've got two memory slots still open. so, the lesson in this rambling tale is this. most of us are pretty knowledgeable about something, be it motorcycles, automobiles, stereo systems, or real estate. i think the same principles apply. when you're new to something, you're always afraid of buying too much, but in a world of advancing technology, that is almost impossible because someone is already writing software or designing hardware to make the current state of the art mainstream. you probably don't need the best, but the least won't satisfy you for long. that mindset and the size of your pocketbook should be a good barometer. also, try to know what's coming down the pike before you buy, but others have written about that already.
i, like a lot of folks, watched the ads for computers for a long time and just couldn't get a feel for the right time to buy because you don't have to be a genius to see computers selling for a few hundred dollars less today than they were a year ago, but the reality is that if you really want a computer, you're going to have to get your feet wet sooner or later and the march of technology shows no signs of slowing down. i wasn't completely clueless when i went to buy my computer because i had at least been using them at work and at school for nearly two decades, but i was somewhat overwhelmed when i began to look at all the options and had to consider specifications that had never entered my mind before. so, i started my computer shopping asking salespeople what would be the right computer for me because i'm really only want it for this and i really will never do that and the response i got was that no one could really make recommendations on that kind of information, which confused me a little. then i remembered the good old days of audiophile stereo component systems and how i used to discourage others from buying systems that were &quot;good enough.&quot; the reason being that if you've been listening to your music on a $50 record player, you really don't know what your expectations will be like when you finally spend a few hundred on a system that seems &quot;good enough.&quot; i'd always say go a few notches higher than what is &quot;good enough&quot; and make sure you have enough flexibility to accommodate practical upgrades along the way. that put in perspective for me and i went back to shopping with a much better frame of mind. no longer was i looking for the computer that was right for me on that day, but the computer that would be right for me two years later. i didn't buy the most expensive one in the house, but i did get the one just below it and i haven't been sorry. yeah, i can buy a computer with specs about the same as mine for a few hundred dollars less today, but i have been using my computer for these last two year and not just reading computer reviews and browsing computer stores and i'm confident that my system will accommodate vista. i've got two memory slots still open. so, the lesson in this rambling tale is this. most of us are pretty knowledgeable about something, be it motorcycles, automobiles, stereo systems, or real estate. i think the same principles apply. when your new to something, you're always afraid of buying too much, but in a world of advancing technology, that is almost impossible because someone is already writing software or designing hardware to make the current state of the art mainstream. you probably don't need the best, but the least won't satisfy you for long. that mindset and the size of your pocketbook should be a good barometer. also, try to know what's coming down the pike before you buy. others have written about that already.
how often you plan to upgrade. if the answer is every 1-2 years, i'd go for the ''just enough'' option to get most bang for your bucks and upgrade the system as your needs grow. if you don't want to upgrade until your system is obsolete, buy the newest, fastest and most powerful technology you can afford and pray the sofware will still support reasonably new software (or you don't need new programs) till the end of your machines life. if you plan to use your machine for college or work, ask from your organisation/teachers what software do you need, as this should help you to determine at least the minimum specs. students often qualify for discounts and your work place might have a similar discount or financing scheme; there's no harm asking. my pentium 2 runs all the office software and many other programs sold still in 2000 (and few even now): i don't need most of the functions of the newer versions and don't see why i should pay for them - most of my programs are free, older versions of the same, curtesy of magazine disks. the programs are often easier to learn because they are simpler, compared to their bloated upgrades. like always, its not what you've got but what you do with it that matters - at least this is true most of the time. my driving teacher said that he buys a new car every year: that way he pays only a little extra money each time, after selling his ''old'' one. i suppose same logic can be applied for computers, only the return for a few months old computer is most likely less: new computer technology becomes an old hat very rapidly and only the rich and obsessive gamers buy the newest hardware. granted, some professionals do make use of very powerful, maybe specialised technology (engineers, architects, designers, special effects guys) but they often get tax relief and other benefits through their comapny. computers have become so powerful that us lesser mortals are hard pressed to utilise it all. if you plan to buy a laptop, remember that some of the components are not upgradeable as easily as a pc or not at all. although the same principle of frequency of upgrade versus cost applies, there are also other things to consider, like battery life and portablility.
the main thing is that you are the only one who can decide what you need and when you need it. i just purchased a new computer by walking into our local &quot;you build it shop&quot; and told the owner what i wanted to do with it and let him make suggestions to see if we were on the same page. i will pick it up this wed. after he checks it out. i wanted a graphics oriented computer that could handle the things i wanted to do without me growing grayer in the process. i had been debating a bare bones and me doing the work but with a 3 yr old in the house i decided to let someone else put it together this time. by the way, this new computer is not a &quot;need&quot; but an &quot;i want&quot;.
it's a sure bet that when the &quot;next&quot; thing gets here, there will be another &quot;next&quot; thing in the wings. the price of the current stuff will go down and the price of the next thing will be about the same. so you can drive yourself crazy waiting for prices to go down. i'm generally a big fan of waiting to upgrade only when there's a clear reason; however, i am sure you don't realize how slow your 677mhz system is. take a deep breath and shop around for the best price and find out how much fun a p4 running xp can be.
go for a new computer only if you are having a custom shop build it for you, or you plan to build a bare bones kit. otherwise, wait till the new computers with &quot;vista&quot; arrive and get a free new os. xp will go into extended support this december so why buy &quot;off the shelf&quot; when xp has laess than a year of life left?
my computer is 14 momths old and has an amd athlon 64 3500+ cpu......
i'm a seriously hardcore gamer. but since i've been in university, i haven't got the funds to buy or build a high-end pc. right now i'm running an athlon xp 3000+ with 512 ddr and a aiw 9800 pro and i can still play doom iii with more than sastifactory graphics. i know i may get flak for this but somtimes the newest isn't always the best.
if you some aptitude build your own system,the latest release hardware does not appear to be the best performing in a lot of cases,it seems to be a pattern that the best setup for a motherboard does not become widely known or available until it is nearly obsolete,e.g. amd k6 3+ cpu's on a socket 7 platform that outperform a majority of pentium 3 based systems and tualatin core p3 cpu's,which are basically a p4 (i'd rather run a pc on a p3 1400/512/133 than any p4 pentium or celeron under 2500).if you are looking at going to a p4 or the equivalent amd there are some boards out there (asrock)that support both the older and more recent socket types so you can start with an older 478 p4 and upgrade to a 775 package later.make sure you get a board that is compatable with as many currently available cpu's as possible,and hyperthreading support is a must.with regards to cpu's in the case of intel at least i am concerned to see a majority of benchmark results show a negligable performance increase resulting from doubling or even quadrupling the l2 cache( i suspect that 512k is optimal on the curve of size vs performance),in fact my research indicates older socket 478 cpu's perform just as well and in some cases marginally better than the new 775 cpu's with 2 and 4 times the l2 cache and more supported technologies,this is reflected in price (check web retailers prices for new 478 and 775 prices for equivalent speed cpu's).currently not having any dual core cpu's to play with (retailers wishing to send me one for testing are welcome,ha,ha) i can't really say too much about them,maybe they will overcome some of the issues with cache performance,maybe not.when looking at upgrading or buying new remember 'cpu':compatability,price,upgradability.
in the frustrating and hype-filled world of computers it's hard to tell when to buy. but a 5 year old machine is ripe for replacement. you should just be careful to make sure it is future-proofed because the next version of windows -- windows vista -- demands a lot of firepower. so the savvy thing to do is to buy a computer with a motherboard that uses amd athlon 64 bit processors (939 pin variety) that will also accept amd's dual core processors (athlon 64 x2). the dual cores are prohibitively expensive for most folks now; but they do use the same motherboards as the single core (in a huge number of instances -- nearly every asus 939-pin motherboard (for amd processors) supports both single and dual core processors. intel motherboards support only single core or dual core, not both. so you'd need a new motherboard to later move up to dual core if you go the intel route -- and you want to avoid that since microsoft will require you to buy a new copy of windows xp (or vista) when you change the motherboard (and windows came installed on your computer) -- nasty practice, but true. also, be sure to get a serial ata (sata) hard drive of at least 250 gb in size, dvd drive (make sure it is ide, not sata because with a lot of motherboards you cannot boot from a sata dvd or cd drive; at least 1 gb of ram (windows vista, due out late this fall, will work best with 2 gb). and i would avoid any manufacturer that uses a lot of proprietary parts like dell does.
if games sli motherboard cpu 1gig ram 6600 geforce pci x maybe new ps this type of system lasts longer because of sli slots
dont wait til yours is dead to replace it its 5 years old and past its prime it may die any day and the data on it could potentialy be lost to magnetics of the earth. you dont have to have as the say bleeding edge technology if you have a machine 5 years old 6-9 month old technology is going to blow you away and save you some cash as well. i like amd it kicks intels butt all over the place especially in value something with a 1600mghz fsb and ddr or ddr2 will sufice think about pci express but on a budget you might stick with agp 8x it still thrills me most of the time. im in a similar place mines 3 year old tech, i bought 2.5 years ago. im torn between the upgrade ability of 939 vs. value of 754 sockets. performance on both will smoke my xp2500 . what ever you buy itll be obsolete in 18 months or 24 months. so enjoy it today
if you are asking if you should buy a computer you probably could use one. prices have never been lower on computers. look for the computer supplier who also has free software.
anytime after a year it ''can'' be time to upgrade to a new system. although we have built thousands of pc's and servers (combined) over the years, i still use an amd 1.4g, 512mb/pc2100, 40gx2/raid0, 46g/slave, cd burner, ati ''original'' radeon 64mbddr, along with floppy/etc. and many usb components running win2kpro. it performs comparably with many new systems that are supposed to be ''much faster'' and are 1.5 to 2 times as many mhz. other setup: intel 850mhz/512 cache slot1, 512mb/pc133, 40g, cd burner, ati ''original'' radeon 32mbddr, along with a floppy/etc. and many usb components running win2kpro. still faster than most celeron systems below 1.7. it's all in quality parts and proper configuration. by the end of this year, the new version (all different combos available in the usa) of windows will (supposed to be) released. it's wise to avoid any use of the new product until a minimum of 9 months has passed. although bragged up to be so great, there are major areas of weaknesses that need to be strengthened between the hardware manufacturers and ms. sit back and wait a year...........besides the new windows is a resource hog and will need a big power supply along with some heavy-hitting hardware to operate for what it is intended( a 400w or higher power supply, ''minimum'' 512mb fast memory; preferably 1g, ''minimum'' 128mb videocard; preferably 256mb, at least 64 bit cpu). this is top-end gear that is being recommended for the ''average'' home user. here's an example of an inexpensive (you should note that any quality, high-midrange to high-end systems are not cheap anymore) system that should last you long enough (maybe another 3-5 years, who knows) to upgrade and not break the bank yet still have a screamin' demon system: asus a8n5x socket 939 nvidia nforce4 atx amd motherboard $63.90 amd athlon 64 3200+ venice 1ghz fsb 512kb l2 cache socket 939 processor - retail $168.00 ocz el platinum revision 2 1gb (2 x 512mb) 184-pin ddr sdram unbuffered ddr 400 (pc 3200) dual channel kit system memory - retail $166.44 seagate nl35 st3250823ns 250gb 7200 rpm 8mb cache serial ata150 hard drive $125.00 sapphire 100106sr-rd radeon x850xt 256mb 256-bit gddr3 pci express x16 video card - retail $199.00 a ''minimum'' power supply (in my reasoning): reliable 400 watt dual 12v rail atx12v 2.01 power supply with 20 and 24-pin connectors startech.com id: atx2power400 as low as $46.95 $769.29 not including s/h and some misc. hardware... (i figured you needed to get a glimpse of a decent midrange power pc base component profile)...... toss in an inwin or enlight case (with a front intake fan/extra rear/exhaust fan), cd burner(lite-on), dvd burner(lite-on), extra hard drive if you wish, your ''old'' floppy (and burner if you would rather instead of purchasing a new one), ''maybe'' a plug-in soundcard, extra usb/firewire ports and (although i still prefer win2kpro-stable, stable, stable os) a copy of win xp pro. this system would be stable (well matched/compatible components), fast and dependable(quality components). in fact,i may just use these same specs to build my daughter's new system!!!!!!!!!
2 years ago i looked for a pc.......understanding the rapid change i made sure i had a big tower and plenty of room for expansion. too this i have only added 1g of ram and a new dvd drive duallayer compatible.......thats it! as far as microsoft vista.....i work in the field and have the privilege of using it and giving feedback to improve.........dont expect much more than xp with more media friendly interface.......and still mucho security holes......norton 2006nis seems to be the best security for it of the 7 protection programs tested and hit with with known and unknown viruses,worms,trojans. linux is still my choice for os, but windows is almost a must due to compatability issues.
my friend bought a computer when 600mhz was the fastest cpu you could get. apart from one of his two 9gb hdds dying, the only other thing that has failed is a modem that got fried during lightning. his family is still using the computer happily for homework and surfing the internet. i myself bought a second hand 486 pc for my business and used it untill three years ago, because i found it too hard to find compatible ink ribbon to the epson printer and newer printers didn't have backwards compatible drivers. i still sometimes boot up the old pc to play old dos games: i prefer old games because the gameplay is king and not the pretty graphics. the 486, which was made sometime in early to mid mineties, is still working as perfectly as the day it was bought. my point is that there is no reason to panic, as long as you have backed up all the important files and have the necessary disks to re-install software - a habit you should adopt regardless of the age of your computer. if something does fail, it is not usually all of the components at once but you are quite justified to upgrade at least the failed component and anything that is closely dependent on it. the rest is up to your desire and the size of your wallet.
the problem is you look and you see a new technology will come out soon or the price will drop on a current one. so you wait a coupple of months and oh dear there is something new and faster, so you wait for it to get cheaper and you get into a purpetual cycle of doom. the real answer is get it when you need it. christmas is often a good time and just after because thats when all the deals come out but i would advise you spend 800 (if you dont need a new screen) annd a bit more if you need a screen. this is quite pricy but if you search around you should get something pretty lasting.
everybody on this thread is right, except maybe the e machines guy and the one who changes chips and boards and this and that every month. he's right too, but he isn't right for you. the person who cited r. profit's buying two notches below the top of the tech max is the most right for me, and that's what i did 13 months ago when i got a dell 8400 media center with maxed out everything. it's great, and i'm sure it does more than i need. but it's technically obsolete. i don't care, cause it works for me. and a couple or a few years from now i'll buy something else. buy it now and don't be cheap cause you will regret that more than you ever will by waiting and waiting. and once you buy it, stop looking at the advertisements because it'll just make you crazy for no real reason.
there are so many computers on the market that look great, smell great, and look good on paper. check for what you want though. if you're a hardcore gamer, build one yourself. that way is super cheap and not overpriced like buying a prefabbed one like hp, dell, sony, and gateway. most of the computer distributers mark up the price by 200% or more and try to include &quot;free&quot; stuff when you buy. besides the day you buy, it is considered old and almost priceless.
i noticed that one of our biggest computer shops is advertising everything at 50% discount. to me that means there is something in the wind and made me decide to wait until after mid-year before replacing my computer. when the new stuff comes out give it 4 to 6months and then look around. being a keen flight simmer i always need the best but i have woken up to the fact that it is better to wait until all the kinks have been sorted out before buying.
being that you recommended an emachine and that it has a meg of ram i wouldn't agree with your recommendation. emachines always have issues, so buy a warranty if you do want to purchase one.
agreed. never buy version 1.0 of anything, wait at least for v1.1
i bought an emachine (to save a few $$$) and i don't know how they did it, but they installed a screwed up copy of xp. didn't have a cd to erase and start over. what a mess!
first, let's assume you are a &quot;normal&quot; person, living modestly because you have yet to win the &quot;big&quot; lottery. of course there will be new technologies such as amd's am2 socket, but with all new technologies come premium prices. when intel or amd introduce new technology, they heavily discount the &quot;older&quot; technology. by &quot;older&quot; i mean by only a few months. the big question is: what do you use your computer for? for the latest and greatest games, you really don't need the latest and greatest technology------just an excellent graphic's card and enough (1gb) ram. video editing is a different story. you should definately consider building a system yourself---it is not difficult and there are forums full of people who will help. the price of an ati x800xt graphics card is half of what it was just six months ago. intel is approaching another price cut in its processors---about six weeks. a good motherboard will run you only $100-150. i would suggest you browse around a site like newegg.com and see how much the parts cost for what you want and then make a decision. you may wait for new technology, but that technology will have a high price tag and may not be all that much better (as in ddr2 over ddr and especially rdram). good luck!
altho waiting is a good idea, its not definate. the newest x2 amd's on the 939 socket are awesome chips. even the entry level 3800+ x2 will blow your mind next to that 667 mhz you have now. as for vista, its a dumb move to install that right away. it took ms months to fix xp when it first came out. so my opinion is, get xp pro sp2, and an amd x2 3800+ with 1 gig of ram with a 6800gt video card and id say youll be ok for the next 2 years.
you said ''it took ms months to fix xp when it first came out.'' in reality the xp is still ful of bugs and security holes. the truth is that operation systems never get working properly before the next one comes out - and soon after that the support of the old one ceases. the question is how functional you want it to be before you buy it. i doubt i would upgrade to vista untill about mid cycle and only then if my software won't run on the old one. remember though that every os from microsoft has just about doubled the resource requirements: memory, hard drive space... so take this account when you budget your pc. also, as fas i understand it, the amd's amt2 does not take s. 939 processors or any other existing one but needs a new processor type altogether.
your system is too old for this, i am upgrading mine to 64bit. i am also increasing my ram to 4gb. my system was purchased last summer. i am in an a+ class. one of my instructors advised me on what to do. i reserched my motherboard and chipset. i will be ready for vista. i think you should get a new ststem, but first research. find out if you need vista. if not, you may be able to get a good deal on a 32bit system.
buy when the next processor comes out, but don't buy the top of the line. buy the second or third from the top. it will be so fast compaired to what you have. you'll need to think about a couple of things. one a mother with maybe ht technology and of course buy at least 2gig of ram. after that, load your o.s. and then you can maybe use some of the hardware from your old pc. just check for compatabillity with old and new, good luck! my pc is older than yours and i'm going to price some new stuff first of the week.
if you're going to wait for the new processor, i'd go ahead and wait for software designed for it to hit the market. that will allow enough time for the first wave of issues to be sifted through. this could take as long as 12 months.
i agree for the most part on what you just said but...i don't where you got your info on amd processors not being socket 939 compatable. check out the link (and google amd if you want more proof)  not only are they s939 compatable but also even with their dual core processors. when tring to decide which processor to use you also need to research motherboards to see which processers can be used with which mb and if the mb has a good reputation as well. although, while going for the newest and biggest may seem like a good idea, it pays to check out any & all info that you can find before buying, so that you don't end up getting a mb & processor and then finding your other parts don't work with them. reasearch, research, research is the key. i am in the process of buying the parts to build another computer and have already looked at the so-called ''top of the line'' cpu's and mb's and now i am working my way down. if i were building it for myself for gaming, maybe, but for someone who justs wants a good compter that will still be fairly fast & up to date in a couple of years, one doesn't need to get that fancy.
computers will get obselete regardless in 30-45 days with new processors, memory and hard drives getting bigger. most processors are 2-3 gigaherz, hard drives tend to be 30 gigabytes or more and memory is at 256 mb's or more. you'll want to buy a computer with alot of memory like 512 mb's or 1 gigabyte if you are going to do digital video editing. it all depends on what you're going to use the computer for and how much you have to spend on the computer. computers are pretty cheap at $300-$500 dollars. i would definitely find a computer with a dvd burner.
if i have understood the article, my statement is correct (i have added the underlines): ''in terms of processor pin count, the new socket was not really necessary to support ddr2 memory. however, amd decided to make physical modifications in order to prevent people installing the wrong processor into their systems. so socket am2 (or m2, as it was called before hitting intellectual property issues) has a total of 940 pins. despite this, it is also not pin-compatible with the opteron's socket 940 the introduction of the socket am2 platform will also change the current cooler specification, forcing the cost of a new thermal solution on those socket 754/939/940 folks willing to upgrade. the change does not affect the maximum dimensions of the mounting frame, nor the cooler, but it redefines the clamping mechanism. this is no issue for the big players (system integrators and oems), but enthusiasts might have to throw their existing high-end cooling solution out of the window.''  i think you might be confusing different cores, including dual core processors, which is understandable. the article you gave is almost a year old and as far as i know, there were no am2 chips to test yet. like i've said earlier here, s 939 motherboards can be upgraded to take dual core processors by simple bios upgrade.
i haven't read every comment so maybe someone has already said this. i'd look at the old computer and say, what is it about this that i've outgrown? for me, it's often that the hard disk is full and way smaller than what they are now selling. or maybe it's the memory, or the graphics capability. once you've narrowed this down, you will know what to look for in a new computer -- i look for the biggest hard drive i can get. but, memory is a big issue with xp, bigger than it was before, imo. my old desktop computer has 512 mb of ram and that's still enough for most things we do. the laptop, that is actually newer, has only 256 mb ram and i'm often running out of memory. i'll probably upgrade the ram on this laptop, and when vista comes out, i'll replace the desktop with a computer that has the most ram and the biggest hard drive i can afford. though i have to say, i'm considering getting a mac. you really might want to look at macs, depending on what you do with your computer. i'm getting really fed up with microsoft and i wonder if it's not finally time to switch. i'm not sure i'm techy enough to try to install linux on a computer, which is another alternative.
i can see two problems with hard drives: 1) the bigger the hard drive, the more you stand to loose if it fails 2) unless you are super organised and never need to use the search facility, you'll find it can take relatively long time find the right file (despite faster processors). if you get system built for you, ask the system builder to divide the disk into one or more logical drives and save different types of stuff in each: for example, i have a small logical hdd for operating system and swap file, another for programs, next one for data and one logical drive for each kid. sure, for each partition you loose some of the drive space, but these days that's not a problem. my teenage son's computer has only 6gb hdd but he doesn't find this too much of a problem because he has got into a habit of backing up his files on cd-roms and uninstalling any program he is not currently using, running a reg cleaner afterwards. granted, he is not using powerful programs that need huge amount of space, but the principal is the same: as long as you only keep work in process in the computer, you don't *really* need all that space. how much your minimum need is, depends if you are doing video editing or writing letters... but its nice to have lots of space, nevertheless i have my whole music library, several gigabytes worth of image files, two computers backed up, plus my son's drivers even though they are burned onto a disk or two as well. again, you are right about vista needed lots of memory and it is now cheap. but if you only do simple office tasks, you should be able to cope less than we are led to believe. i have under 800mb ram of which the onboard graphics and sound takes their share, yet i have never run out of memory, despite running 3 or 4 programs (including image editing one) and up to fifteen web pages, while listening to music. because my funds are limited, i'll buy more memory only if and when i need it. there are some more user-friendly versions of linux that self-install (more or less) the os, but you are right in that they are still not as easy as windows. more importantly, hardware is not as widely supported. what i see in my local pc world, mac isn't that well supported either, in soft or hardware. of course, its all down to preference in the end.
this list i've made for myself might help a little, though it is only a rough guide there might be mistakes as i'm no professional. just shows how confusing the amd's naming is: same name but different core & different sockets more recent amd cores (roughly in chronological order) co core - sledgehammer (athlon 64fx s.940), clawhammer (athlon 64 s.754) cg core - sledgehammer (athlon 64fx s.940), clawhammer (athlon 64fx s.939; athlon 64 s.939 & 754), newcastle ( athlon 64 s.939 & 754), paris (sempron s. 754) do core - winchester (athlon 64 s.939), palermo (sempron s.754) e3 core - venice (athlon 64 s.939 & 754), palermo (sempron 754) e6 core - venice, palermo (both as above?) e4 core - san diego (athlon 64 s.939; athlon 64fx s.939), venus (opteron s.939) e4 core - manchester (dual core, essentially 2x e6 core, venice chips: athlon 64 & athlon 64fx?) e6 core - toledo (dual core, essentially 2x e4 core, san diego cips - athlon 64 s.939 & athlon 64fx s.939) denmark (opteron s.939)
cnet is doing online course for builing a top notch computer, starting soon. even if the components talked in there are way out your budget, i think you won't loose anything by taking it: the basics are the same and you can always adjust what you've learned to match your needs.
will get you a lot for your money. like dells 400xps for $999. 19&quot; flat panel and a gb of memory included. (not that i'm pushing one brand over another) a little time visiting manufactures websites is time well spent. now &quot;if&quot; you're wanting a high end expensive machine, all of the breaking edge tech is going to change soon. unless you just gotta have it, waiting at least 6mo after their release can save you big bucks. this coming christmas season should have some hot deals. but, if you're just wanting a fast machine now, and have the grand to spend now, those deals will keep you up to par with what most gaming software manufactures will offer for at least a year.
from simply a speed perspective alone, yes, you would benefit from buying now, there is absolutely a benefit anyone with a system of your clock speed will get from the faster cpu, hard disk i/o speed, etc. however, you really need to state what you use a computer for and how it serves your needs. then and only then can you tell about what, if any, new technology will impact your use. for example, if all you do is surf the web, send some emails, run quicken and turbotax, type letters with ms word and other typical unspecialized, unparticularly demanding applications, then no, you don't need to spend any money unless you just want a new machine that will be marginally faster at those uses. instead, put your money in a 19&quot; lcd to make your use more enjoyable. however, if you are a gamer and want good graphics or to be able to even play some of the latest games, then i'd really be surprised you've waited this long. game players are the most frequent upgraders and usually do so every 1-2 years even if just a new video card. find a good gaming web site that reviews products for gamers to help with your decisions. other than that, if you run other particularly demanding applications such as cad, video editing/conversion, music production/editing (midi/wav), or any other demanding application, then yes, by all means upgrade since these areas are where you will see the most significant increase in performance. figure out whether i/o will be more important (wav) or cpu (cad) or both (video editing) and use that to drive your product selection. best luck to you.
thank you all for helping me out! i have finally decided that i should go ahead and buy a computer soon, rather than wait for ever. i have already waited too long. i know that both intel and amd are coming out with new processors and chipsets but rather than wait, i have decided to buy a computer now. so this is the config i selected based on my budget. intel pentium 3.2:- 233.137 usd (price converted to dollars ) intel 945 g chipset board :-156 usd memmory:-transcend 2gb 533 mhz ddr-2 :- 226 usd hdd 160 gb seagate :- 95 usd monitor 17'inch flat crt samsung 793s:- 154 usd (lcd monitors are way too expensive in india.) lite-on sohw-1673s dvd writer :- 69 usd kunhar atx cabinet with 400 watts smps:- 48 usd altec lansing atp3 speakers:- 75 usd geforce 6800 gs 256mb pci-e card : - 322 usd tv tuner card: - play tv @p7000 ( internal ) pixel view 110 usd total :- 1500 usd well i wanted to buy amd but they are rare and expensive here in india. as far as the tuner card is concerned , i wanted to buy a much better one , but unfortunately this is the best one available here. i want this computer for gaming (play all latest games at decent resolution) and also wanna use this as a media center pc. i will be using windows xp with mce 2005 and then switching over to vista when it arrives. ya i know ....if i were in us , i would get a much better computer for this budget. but computer products are expensive here in india. since i will be using my computer for watching/recording tv i want a system that doesn't make any noise. can someone here tell me whether the p4 chip or the graphics card make a lot of noise and if so is there any way to reduce it???? noise during gameplay is okay though.only wanna keep noise down while watching/recording tv. this is the first time i am building a new computer.please let me know of any combatibility issues or what should be changed . also is it better to build or buy a media center system that can play games? also please state whether this config would be enough for vista.
just like you,i have a 5 year old pentium iii 600mhz computer which still perform superbly. over the years, i have upgraded the operating system from windows 98 -2000 then finally to xp. along the way, i increase the memory to 512mb from 128, and adding a dvd dl . although i'm not a game person but i do a lot of graphic designs such as autocad and professional engineering design which require 3d graphics, and i am perfectly happy with the performance. as for waiting or buying a new computer now , if you decide to wait, you will wait for long time and might even be dissapointed in what may come out next. if you fill like purchasing a new computer now,go for it because, no matter how much game you play , what's in the maket today will surely satistfy your desire. i agreed with other person that surggested amd. this is a better product than pentium.
i'm trying my best to avoid having vista or any new hardware with the &quot;fritz chip&quot; on it. i want to get a new pc while i can still buy one without the fritz chip. preferably a build-it-yourself with a retail version os that belongs to me instead of my hardware vendor (dell, gateway, hp, etc) so i can upgrade my own motherboard without microsoft disabling my operating system. vista is the next generation of &quot;big brother&quot; - apps that &quot;phone home&quot; and let vendors disable and even delete files from your machine remotely. the new vista machines have complicit hardware such that the hardware itself prevents you from disabling anything that microsoft wants in your pc, including a new operating system. i do not want vista on my pc, in my home. i don't &quot;pirate&quot; anything and don't do music on my pc at all (i'm 65), but i decidedly wish to own my own pc rather than microsoft and vendors having control of it. i mean, really, what about its latest drm scheme that opened a hole wide enough to drive a truckload of trojans through? microsoft is turning out to protect vendors at your/our expense - that's what it's &quot;trustworthy computing&quot; means - don't get the mistaken idea that it's more &quot;trustworthy&quot; for you - it isn't; it's more trustworthy for vendors - including microsoft. the only user-friendly thing microsoft has done imho is to move the drivers out of the kernel, but that's just correcting one of its original design mistakes. i have protection all around and have never had an unfriendly software invasion, so that is not enough reason for me to turn control of my pc over to microsoft and other vendors. so, my advice would be to buy a machine while you can still get one that will belong to, and can be controled by, you, instead of microsoft and other vendors.
just to make you smile and make you realize that you're not so unlucky... i have a celeron 500mhz, maxed over the years to 320mb ram (from 64), a faster cd burner, and a dvd drive (as i prefer to backup anything on dvd since it's a lot cheaper than cd per megabyte), with 60 + 250gb storage space (as the first 13.5gb - weird capacity i know - died about 3 years ago - estimated at 1200$cdn for data retrieval) first, financial situation: broke college student having a 610$us+ repair cost on my laptop just waiting. current state of the computer: - original keyboard has impaired functionality (ctrl+alt+del doesn't work in bios or boot, broken space bar - fortunately the side i don't usually tap) - replaced with a garbage-found one) - before, uptime of more than a month was achievable (record one was 3 months), but now, something around the ram seems to randomly stop working sometimes, causing a good old bsod, and can happen anytime - screen won't light at first press of power button if i don't unplug it before plugging it again then firing it - but sometime does ! what i do (or want to) with my computer: - ftp server - a good amount of downloading - video editing and conversion, and, i wish, acquisition - video viewing ! no game (for now), as you see. of course it stays on 24/7, as my current 500mhz since 5 years now. usually, i run 9 apps(inc. cachemanxp, smart hdd monitoring -to avoid unexpected hdd crash, as the repairs are $$$-, adaware monitoring, antivirus, trillian...) in the background, folding@home, thunderbird email, winamp, and about 20 to 25 internet windows, and a few folders open, all of which i consider moderate usage - heavy being when video editing) as you see, a heavy multitasker !!! what i want my ideal computer to be/have: - not too power-hungry: running 24/7 probably means a good amount of dollars spent for it, even more now that electricity tariffs increase here in quebec; additionnaly, this will translate in longer runtime on the ups (actually a 400va, 12-yo with fresh batts - 30+kgs of it) in case of a power outage. - again the most speedy storage money can afford, as i often run out of space on my 310gb total (no joke) - as i nearly can't support when a fast computer starts to rely on swap instead of ram; as some &quot;mono-taskers&quot; may be able to simple disable it, i wish i could, too, hence the need for at least 2gb, ideally dual-channel. - a large (i like watching videos from my couch, not on my desk chair), 16:9 screen, economical in the medium run. i wouldn't care to pay 200$ more for a lcd if the premium can be absorbed by the savings it generates from operating in 2 years or 3. - any form of wireless won't be quite necessary, except ir for cell-syncing - of course, a silent, as i currently sleep beside it. - i dream of: hot-overclockable processor, that would allow me to temporarily &quot;step on the gas&quot; while doing cpu-intensive tasks, even if that would mean unstable machine if run more than a few hours. over the last few months, i thought about having a file server machine, running ftp, and having full 100mbps access speed to the hard disk over the network, then, beside it, a portable powerplant such as the one currently in repair, but, although it may save the cost of a full-featured desktop down to a network-optimized linux storage machine, there aren't as many external peripherals as standard, internal ones, plus they're usually pricier. for the say, the portable is an athlon 64 3000+ (planned to get a mt-40), 512mb (planned to up it to 1gb), 60/7200 hdd and a dvd dl burner. so, if i would want to do all i do, will it be cheaper to: - 1 file server, 1 portable pc, 1 above-average tv - 1 desktop, 1 ibook g4 14&quot;, 21&quot; 16:9 screen (lcd or crt)
hello arrow_0042000. i replyed way back at the beginning of your post to your first question. with so many replys (and a whole lot don't have a clue what they're talking about!)it must have been a hard choice. but i think you made the right one! i just finished building a system for someone and the specs along with the prices follow. and it's all in canadian dollars so add about 15% to the total for us price. i don't think you overpaid a whole lot for your system or have you bought it yet? to try to answer your new questions might be a little tough as a bit more info is needed but on the surface it looks like it should work for your needs. however, it is going to depend on a few things not listed. take a look at what i had to buy. that is what you need to put a system together, parts wise. what i built is a slighty above ''middle of the road'' system but it really flies. you can research cnet on how to build a computer (or better yet, take their on-line course!) or just google for instructions or ask for help like you just did. anyway, i agree about your amd choice. it's all i use. i am a bit concerned however, with your power supply. it might not be big enough to do all you want. the more devices you add, the more power you need. you also did not say if it's a sata or ide drive.plus you should have a floppy drive as you may need to download a program to a floppy so that the motherboard will recognize the larger drive (it's a windows thing!). to answer the noise issue, it should be quite quiet. the gaming issue i think is more of a personal one; a matter of choice. as far as vista is concerned, newer is not always better. i only use xp pro because it was built better for working with media than 98 was. i prefer 98 otherwise i would still have 98 on my main computer. i use 98 on all my others. vista is going to have a tremendous amount of bugs to start off, as did all the other releases of windows. i usually wait at lease a year or more to change operating systems (if i do!). anyway, go over my list of what i had to buy to build a computer and if you want or need more help building it, just post a message or you can e-mail me direct (see my profile). hope this helps. lloyd. asus k8n atx s754 nforce3 250 ddr agp 5pci sata sound lan motherboard-$69.79 samsung spinpoint p series 250gb sata 7200rpm 8mb 8.9ms fdb hard drive 3 year mfr warranty-$99.99 zalman zm-f1 80mm case fan 1700/3000rpm 3pin 20/34dba w/ quiet mode adapter (you might need 120mm fans!)-2@$5.66=$11.32 antec sonata ii black atx 16in mid tower quiet case 3x5.25 2x3.5 4x3.5in 450w air duct 120mm fan=$115.99 samsung syncmaster 913v ii 19in black 1280x1024 600:1 0.294mm 12ms vga tft lcd monitor=$318.99 samsung pc3200 512mb ddr400 184pin dimm oem-3@$42.99=$128.97 ncix heavy duty shipping box=$5.99 amd sempron 64bit 2800+ processor s754 palermo 1.6ghz 256k l2 cache 90nm sse3 retail box=$99.03 lg black 52x24x52 cdrw& 16x dvd combo int eide atapi oem w/ cdrw sw burner=$44.51 lg gsa-h10a 16x dvd+-rw 16x dual layer writer ide 2mb black oem w/ sw burner'$49.08 sony black 1.44mb 3.5in floppy drive=$10.13 logitech internet pro desktop black internet keyboard & optical mouse ps/2 oem (single pack)=$21.60 brother dcp-120c inkjet multifuntion printer 20/15ppm 6000x1200dpi 8mb usb scanner copier=$118.05 ngear 96 disc cd case & ritek cd-r 100 disc spindle bundle pack=$29.50 asus n6200/td/128 geforce 6200 agp 128mb ddr vga dvi tv-out video card=$73.53 creative inspire p7800 7.1 speakers system 90w rms black=$96.15 creative sound blaster audigy 4 se pci 7.1 surround sound card oem=$54.73 ngear usb2.0 device cable a-b m/m 6ft=$7.98 40/80 pin 18inch ata133 ide cable 3 heads=$1.95 taiyo yuden dvd-r 8x 4.7gb 50disc spindle silver top=$22.98 ngear colour ink cartridge for canon s200 s300 & pixma ip1500/2000/ i250/350/450/455 bci-24c-2@$1.99=$3.98 samsung spinpoint p series 250gb ide ata133 7200rpm 8mb 8.9ms fdb hard drive 3 year mfr warranty=$105.99 soultek 256mb sd 60x secure digital flash card=$18.99 ngear black ink cartridge for canon s200 s300 bci-24b=2@$1.99=$3.98 1 year express coverage for lcd monitors - with 30 day ''zero dead pixel'' exchange warranty=$15.95 shipping and handling $78.57 shipping insurance with 30 days express rma (3.00%): $46.47 alberta environmental fee: $20.00 subtotal: $1,674.19 no pst - outside bc residents gst(7%): $117.19 your total: all quoted prices are in canadian dollars $1,791.38 some of the items were not a requirement for the new pc such as the ide drive, memory card and ink cartridges. but it was all delivered to my door for that price. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
looks like a pretty decent system, although 2g of memory is a little overboard in our opinion. i would go with 1g and add a second hdd for backup. as for &quot;vista&quot;, like i said: wait 9 months or so. after just finishing with more &quot;vista&quot; seminars, no matter how great the new features &quot;may&quot; be, i would prefer to see more bugs worked out (of which there are quite a few as usual) of the os 'before&quot; spending big money on it and jeopardizing my system. since you're in india, have you checked out the lg fhn-n59dm1b system? supposed to be a high-end gaming system that's the talk of the town. i didn't find out much about it on the internet. noise; unless you go with extremely high end parts (for the recording/radio station, etc. industry) there will always be some noise. the recommendations to insulate the case are great to deaden the sound, but disastrous for heat dissipation and control (you'll need an air conditioning setup blowing directly into the pc; less computer noise, more ac noise!). don't go with insulating ideas. a good case, good, low-noise case/component fans are the only inexpensive way to try to alter sound (afterall, the harddrive isn't exactly quiet either). since you didn't mention the brand of mobo, it isn't known how great the sound will be with onboard audio. you might want to consider purchasing a plug-in sound card. also, the speakers you listed are 2.1 version speakers, no subwoofer volume control or headphone jack. i don't know if that makes any difference to you or not. an ati x1800xt is pretty equal (&quot;maybe&quot; a little better) to the gf 6800 you listed. i don't know what your price over there is, however. a crt monitor is still the only way to go for real gaming and will remain so for some time. overall, your system looks pretty good. i look forward to any response you might have to this posting!
i could not agree more with maggietoo9's little rant about vista, and will add a rant of my own. the good folks at m$ft have proven amazingly adept at putting out new operating systems (os) full of major defects. 95 never lived up to the original hype and was soon updated with fixes that finally evolved into win98se, a decent os. win me was so buggy that a year later they were selling a whole new os, xp. tough luck to you if you had paid for me (either by itself or included in a system you bought approximately between the summers of 2000 and 2001. at this time xp pro (32-bit), which can be bought oem for well under $100 on e-bay, is, imho, the best os for 99% of windows users. i like pro because i have found it to be very stable (for a windows product) and i have heard that m$ft will soon be ending support for xp home. i guess they don't want to anger corporate customers. of course any new computer you order from dell or other major box maker includes xp home. you must pay a substantial amount to upgrade to pro. i have no psysic powers, but i visualize vista (mista?), which is coming out at least a year later than we were led to believe will be majorly imperfect. the fact that we will initially see the os in both a 32 and 64 bit flavor will not help at all. what a choice, 32-bit backward looking for stability and compatibility advantages, or 64-bit forward looking with more bugs and far less compatibility (remember xp when it first appeared?) and that's all i'm going to say about that.
so noisy that people on the phone believed i was drying my hair at the same time! that fan kept my machine ice cold whatever i threw at it. the noise didn't bother me as long as i was just using it for work (it actually helped me to concentrate by blocking all other noises of the house and outdoors!) but when i started to use it for other things, i ended up putting the base unit into the attic next door. sadly, my new mobo cannot take the ''jet engine'' any more and i have a stock fan that came with my amd processor (it's still noisy). not everyone has an attic only a few feet from the computer but maybe you'll find a large cupboard (need space around for ventilation!) will do, just drill holes at the back for cables - or you could put the base unit outside the room while recording. not an ideal solution, i know, but it's cheap way of doing it untill you can afford the more expenive hardware solution. maybe you have a creative streak and mod your pc into an cool looking case that keeps the components cool and blocks out noise while allowing easy access to the drives and ports. i saw a picture of a certain famous space ship shaped computer, all included but i don't know how practical it was - certainly the radio controlled car and pc combo i saw on one website (or was it on even telly?) didn't seem a good idea.
how about: asus a8n-sli socket 939 nvidia nforce4 sli chipset pc3200 2 pci-expressx16 audio lan usb atx with cpu athlon 64 x2 3800+ dual-core 90nm heatsink and fan combo set$444.99 1gb 1024mb (1 stick) ddr400 pc3200 true 400mhz- 5ns 64x8 low density nonecc unbuffered cl2.5 w/heatsink ultra - 7 days full refund industry std pc3200 ddr compatibility guaranteed$73 mixed hard drive serial ata 80gb 7200rpm st380013as 8mb cache hard drive no white label$42 xfx geforce 6600 gt pci-e video card 128mb ddr3 dual dvi & tv out sli ready model: pv-t43g-nd xfx geforce 6600 gt pci-e video card 128mb ddr3 dual dvi & tv out sli ready model: pvt43gnd. $133 x2 $266 500w power supply gaming mid tower atx case w/ amd and p4 compatible front usb 2.0 and audio 6bay aluminum side transparent window led case fans black midtower atx $39 windows xp pro $139 with harddrive keyboard $20 mouse $20 samsung sh-w162l lightscribe 16x double layer dvd+/-rw drive (black) bulk w/software with lightscribe technology lightscribe will enable you to create silkscreen-quality labels directly on cds and dvds dvd+rw lightscribe dvd+r9 dv $57 atapi dvd 40x(cd)/16x dvd 512k bare black in color 80ms(cd)/ 100ms(dvd $33 speakers boston acoustics digital ba7500 $49.99 floppy $20 but not sure what to use for anymore way faster and want to save more use only one 6600
land grid array...not pga...no pins
can you expand on that? i admit i haven't followed too much about the subject and i'm not sure what you mean. i guess i'm not the only one who's in the dark
is this your idea of the system the original poster should buy and the prices to be expected, or are you advertising something?
it'll be hard to find, but look for a full copy of windows, not oem. oem licenses can't legally be transfered to another computer, and generally won't move for technical reasons. they get tied to the specific machine they are first installed on, and that generally happens at the factory. rarely, but it happens, oem windows can cause a problem when being reinstalled on it's mother machine. fiddling with criptic license keys. and you will need to format and rebuild your system.
at least here in england some companies offer loads of extrs (like family tree maker) but ask yourself are you really going to get much joy from them? many software titles are old programs that you are likely to get at a shop's bargain section anyway - or almost an identical one from a rival company. only look at bundled package if you are deciding between two equally good computers!! if you are buying a ready-made computer, you can usually expect an operating system. other ''standard'' software packages usually include a trial periods of isp and virus checker. some better software packages may offer an office suite, such as ms works and ready installed free firewall and anti-spam/spyware programs (free or trial versions)so you are protected from malware straight away. a pc bundle might even contain ''free'' scanner and printer, but ultimately you are paying for it. it might seem to work out cheaper than the cost of scanner and printer separately, but check that you are happy with the quality and running cost - bundled hardware is often either flimsy, printer are results poor or buying ink is very expensive, or both, or in case of, say cameras, the resolution is so very poor - don't expect any (useful) manuals! somewhere the manufacturer has to cut corners!
it's much harder to read, and people think you're shouting at them! -- dave k.
agreed. there is no free lunch.
yes it is system should have bought.....but just general specs....do not sell or advertise anything...just help
i agree with what youre asking i want to save as much money as possible
