hello, i'm having a heck of a time trying to find myself a udma mode-6 enabled motherboard to run ssd. unfortunately, i cannot find the udma mode listed on many motherboard specification sheets. asus recommened that i check out the p9x79 motherboard. currently, i am running a asus p7p55d-e lx which is listed as having 2x 6/gbs sata ports. however, udma 6 enabled ssd's are only being run @ udma 5... any tips on udma mode-6 motherboards would be great. i am willing to go with amd or intel (preferably intel) cpus along with it. thanks!
so it appears udma 6 or ata133 is legacy. that is, you catch that where you can but it's gone. bob
not sure i'm following you on this one proffitt
you lead off with udma 6 or ata-133 which is about ide ports. since new boards may not have said port, trouble. why can't you use the newer sata ports and get a ssd on sata connections? bob
given that a bios can emulate ide (the drive is still sata) folk may elect to use this emulation and get lost trying to up the udma mode when it's all an emulation. skip all this and set the sata to ahci without the emulation and we can chat about sata speeds. bob
the issue is that a 6.0 gb/s sata port is &quot;supposed&quot; to read @ 400+ mb/s. if i'm not mistaken, when the ssd is running in udma 5-mode, the read/write speed is not testing @ it's full ability.
i follow you on this, unfortunately, when ahci mode is enabled, the pc gets on an endless cycle of boot and reboot while bsoding on the windows logo
enabled ahci mode, computer booted up fine, read/write speeds seem to still be &quot;slower&quot; than advertised
i found ssd to be treacherous in that not only the drive firmware must be current, but many machines require intel's rst app to hit full steam. then again, the ssd maker can change the software to be more safe at the cost of some speed. and finally we have the problem of laboratory conditions. one poor soul had that cracked windows 7 and never could fix it. our theory is the crack wrecked havoc with the system. and since we could get full speed from our install they were pissed at everyone about &quot;what carp is this, why can't you fix my system?&quot; they were treated as nicely as possible but that os meant we could never tackle that system. bob
many forget the extra bytes in the packets flying around. this is why you want to talk to the maker's support of your machine and see what they think.
