i installed a brother mfc 420cn successfully on my netgear wireless router that both my ibook and windows me pc can see. but after installation, a brother hl-1435 laser printer and an hp photoprinter 1100+ &quot;stopped&quot; according to printer setup utility in os x panther. i tried reinstalling the brother laser driver but the ibook doesn't see it under usb in printer setup utility. any suggestions would be appreciated! (ibook g4 running os x 10.3.9, netgear wireless g router, brother mfc 420cn networked printer, local brother hl-1435 laser printer and hp photopriner 1100+ using usb)
when the print queue is &quot;stopped&quot; all that needs to be done is to &quot;start&quot; it again. on the menubar or the icon bar of the printer window. occasionally, you will find a document that the printer just gives up on. at that point it stops the queue. deleting the offending document and restarting the queue usually works. this is probably not the problem in your case. p
thanks for your help. both local usb printers show &quot;stopped&quot; even though i was only trying to print to one when this started. restarting the document just seemed to put it back in the queue but it would eventually stop as before. (also tried restarting computer.) deleting both printers and trying to reinstall one doesn't work, as printer setup utility no longer sees any usb drivers.
interesting. even after running the installer for a printer, it no longer sees that printer? do a search for all files that contain the name of the offending printer, even a partial name, and delete everything found. reinstall. you say that after &quot;starting&quot; again, the document just goes back in the queue and the queue stops. did you try deleting the document and starting with a an empty print spooler? p
i tried every combination of deleting document and deleting printer and reinstalling driver, restarting print document. what's most interesting is that not one, but two local usb printers were &quot;stopped&quot; after installation of network printer. no document was being printed to one of those usb printers, only the laser. yet printer setup utility shows both &quot;stopped.&quot; are you suggesting i search for files with names of either usb printer and delete them?
that &quot;should&quot; ensure that a fresh installation will actually put the drivers onto the disk instead of just checking to see if the drivers have the same date. worth a try it is curious that both usb printers should stop though p
