i live in a dorm and i want to stream movies to my nexus 7 but i dont want to buy a nas. can i connect my external to a router (  ) and use that to stream movies. i dont need to be able to connect to it all over campus (i know that involves hacking the proxy) but mainly in my room would be nice. could you tell me if it'll work and why/how? thanks  would it work with this router maybe?
the likely reason(s) for no one having answered this is that it could entail hacking into a secured network for potentially nefarious reasons, which is not only unethical but could also have legal rammifications. methinks you are on your own in this circumstance.
if you connect your external to a router, it's attached to a network (a small network, consisting of your nexus and that router). that is what we call network attached storage, or nas shortly. so, if your external can be connected to the router, you already have nas. and if it doesn't it won't work. but i see the nexus 7 has a usb-port. and most externals i know (unless they are firewire of e-scsi) can connect via usb. so why do you think you need a router? kees
and what would he use as an isp? what i gleaned from the original post was to be able utilize the available on campus service which unless i am mistaken would require hacking into the server. on many college campuses doing this is unacceptable because of security restraints and tight internet use policies when using their system(s).
&quot;i dont need to be able to connect to it all over campus (i know that involves hacking the proxy) but mainly in my room would be nice&quot; just using the portable hard disk in his room with a usb-cable seems feasible. and the same method would work in friends rooms and, in fact, all over the campus.that extra cable is a little bit clumsy indeed when walking or on bicycle, but not being able to watch video then might be a minor nuisance. kees kees
i have no intentions of hacking but i think i go it figured out i think, but i only want to use it in my room
it has to be rooted to use the usb
