there are so many hard drive duplicators around in the market such as data copy king, data compass unlimited,ninja duplicator, deepspar disk imager, atola imager, imagemaster solo,supersonix, etc. which to buy? which is the best? what suggestions do you have?
i do this all the time with a spare unwanted pc. why would there be a market for such when i get by with free? bob
yes, man, you can be right and like me, if i want to image or duplicate faulty drives, like bad sectors or if i want to backup a lot of data, can you tell me what can be the best solution? time? some people told me some potential risks of using free stuff, i am really afraid of that.
so that means you should pay up. now that you revealed you might be into data recovery where you need to skip bad sectors read  lots of choices and good luck but i can't help folk that snub free machines and free solutions. i won't write at length but why isn't this acceptable? bob
r. proffitt is right for the attitude of free tools, free tools have many solutions that paid tools may not have. with some good free ones, you do many things. for hard drive duplicators, i have both data copy king and ninja. ninja is really excellent for its copying wanted files and partitions; for data copy king, the best point is its data copying speed about 6.67gb/min and it's able to copy drives with bad sectors. besides, i have downloaded many online free backup software, remember one thing, the more solutions you have, the better result you will have!
hello everyone, i didn't mean to snub free devices and solutions and i am not a millionaire, if free devices would solve everything, how shall i spend one cent for the paid ones? anyway, thanks for your focus on the important copying solutions. btw,i see in websites talking about hard drive duplicators, disk imager, data copy tools, any differece among them or they are actually the same thing.
i just bought a startech (about $50 from amazon). it's a pretty simple device by looking at it... there are a few pretty led lights, 3 buttons and 2 hard drive slots! drop your drives in, click a button and boom you have an identical copy of your original hard dive. oddly enough the source drive is labeled slot#2.. and the destination drive is labeled slot#1.. .well, you can only imagine what i just did to my original drive after several months of installing software on my workstation and getting it just the way i wanted it!!! fudge!! oh well, i suppose if i had read the directions it would have warned me about this stupid design flaw. i'm sure it works great once you have the drives in the right (logically opposite) slots, so i will give it 3-stars out of 5. note: this post was edited by a forum moderator to remove profanity on 01/30/2012 at 10:50 am pt
