purchased a machine about 9 months ago. shortly after buying it, i was getting error messages and the drive could not be detected. after a week or two, i could not access the hard drive at all, so i was sent a replacement drive (about a month after purchase). two-three months later, i again had the same problem, so i replaced the hard drive again, thinking i had bad luck and had gotten two bad hard drives. this time i purchased it at retail and did not go through warranty as i needed the machine that weekend. over the past month i have been having the same problem again. when booting, i occassionally notice that the ide detection process would not show the hard drive and i would get the error: disk boot failure, insert system disk and press error usually after one or two restarts, the machine would right itself and i would not have the error message again. yesterday, i got received this error and regardless of how many times i rebooted, i continued to get this error. thinking it may be a bad ide cable or channel, i proceeded to do the following: switch the cd-rw and dvd drive to ide channel 2 and switch the hard drive to ide channel 1. switch the hard drive ide cable for a new cable. switch back the hard drive to ide channel 2. regardless of what i now do, i continue to have the same error message when i try to boot, about 98% of the time: disk boot failure, insert system disk and press error any suggestions as to what i should do? athalon 3000 gigabytw gv-7vax 1gb ram wd 80gb hard drive ati radeon aiw 9800
i would try three things: 1) place the hard drive on the ide 0 channel(that's the first channel) without anything else on ide 1(that's the second channel). see if it boots cleanly. 2) try the same except this time on ide 1, with nothing on ide 0. what do you get? 3) call the vendor you got it from and get the machine fixed.
michael, thanks - the motherboard has the two ide channels printed on the mob as 1 and 2 so that is what i am using for explanation. i did try booting with the hard drive on each channel with nothing on the other and encountered the same problems. i have an email and a call in to the vendor. thanks for your help.
