i'm considering purchasing a dell 960 printer. i believe that the printer is manufactured by lexmark. one thing that concerns me is that dell says you must purchase the ink cartridges from dell and the lexmark cartridges will not work with this printer. does anyone know if that is true? i sure would like the option to purchase my ink cartridges locally.
it's a pure marketing play. yes, i see the printers and they look, smell like lexmarks. but why go there? very nice printers are under 99bucks locally without this issue to solve. in fact, tell them to keep the printer if this is the issue. bob
i hope you didn't buy the poc... you're stuck buying dell branded-lexmark ink... all the reliability studies by the major magazines put the lexmark products at the bottom of the list. you get what you pay for ... take a look at the value you might get from another manufacturer ... it truly depends what you'd like to print and how much.
lexmark does make the dell model. the whole difference is the mounting tab, in effect slightly different in order to interfere with using non-dell labeled carts. this isn't an uncommon practice, but why deal with it, just get the same looking lexmark ptr. model. btw, lexmark tend to have more costly ink carts compared to other brands. believe me, shop around and get a different non-dell ptr. all those other ptrs. will work, by heck, its your choice. -----willy
i got the same answer from dell about the a960 printer--only dell cartridges fit. i did a search on dell printer cartridges and found a web site &quot;http:// that identified that the printers are made by lexmark, but they keyed the print cartridges differently for dell. therefore only dell cartridges will fit or the 4inkjet.com claims to make a refill kit for that printer. i plan to check compusa, bestbuy, and staples local stores. i complained to the salesperson who could care less about my complaint. good luck.
i have refilled these cartridges without a problem with a kit i got from printpal.com or 77colors.com (sorry i can't remember which). but it is the only affordable way to deal with this printer.
the dell printer have a little tab that prevent the ink holder from locking with a lexmark cartridge. i cut off the tab and i am running with a lexmark cartridge just fine. its stupid cos the cartridges are all the same price (40 dollars cdn)...what a rip off...i am going to refill it. they give you a good price on the printer but buy a couple of cartridges and you might as well have gone with something better. my real problem is: the a960 i cant use as a standalone fax...some faxes just are completely received by the other side although the machine tells me its okay dell sux - lexmark sux --- all a money grab --- no quality
