so my family is getting a new computer for christmas, and i can do anything i want with the old computer. so i've decided to turn it into a media center/ torrent tivo. mainly for just watching videos, listening to some music once and while, etc. the computer is an hp pavilion a320n. its has 2.98 ghz amd athalon processor, 512 megs of ram, and 120 gig hardrive, windows xp home edition. i have 512 megs of ram, so i'm going to upgrade it to 1g, should that be enough? i don't plan on using it record live tv or anything that intense. i also need to upgrade to video card so i have tv out put. which card would be a good deal? i don't want to spend alot, between 30 and 50 bucks is kind of my range. should i opt for a card with a tv tuner instead? the hardrive is 120 gigs. i don't plan on stooring my movie collection on it really. more like torrenting my favorite shows i miss and then wathcing, and once wathced delete them. so should 120 gig hardrive be big enough? as for media center software, i've been looking at media poral. i don't want to spend the money to get ms media center. are any other free suggestion for media center type software? thats about it, have i covered all my bases for a basic media center/ torrent tivo device. i'm going to upgrade my ram, and get a video card with tv output. don't think i need a bigger hardrive. anything else you all would upgrade.
finds nothing that i could discuss in this forum. almost all video content via torrents is pirated so the forum policies forbid that disussion. if we ignore that why can't you use the usual mce and xbox 360 combo? bob
i don't have an xbox 360, so that really isn't an option. thats why i'm using my old pc. also, i've seen most that stuff of bittorent and rss, but thanks anyways. and i didn't discuss my use of bittorent really, so i'm hoping my thread isn't veering into bad territory or even grey territory. if so i will tweek it some.
as to a do-it-yourself item some have loads of fun trying to get such to work proper. maybe you can look on google.com about &quot;build your own media pc&quot; or such but the mce+360 combo is nice. apple will have their itv out soon so you should look there if you want to &quot;see how it should be done.&quot; bob
