i have inherited an old 500mhz machine that i am looking to turn into a media server. it came with a 10gb hd, so for obvious reasons, i'm looking to increase the storage. i have found a 300 gb ata/133 that i am interested in, but i don't know if my machine can handle it. are there maximums for a machine's hd size? also, before i buy a hard drive, i want to make sure it has a compatible interface. i know my machine works with ata drives, and this drive says it uses parallel ata. is this the same thing? my machine is a hp pavillion 6630. thanks in advance! trish
they both are the same thing, pata and ata. you should be good to go with the 300gb, but to make sure: what os are you using? and you are putting the 300gb on the ntfs file type, correct? sometimes old os's won't allow or won't recognize the full size of the hard drive. ~ibrahim
not even worth to turn into a server, with those low specs. how long would it take to upload the files... 300gb could take weeks, non-stop. roger
i agree with roger, making a media server out of that??? go try but you won't have any fun. you can get a new computer or build one your own.
those older piii systems almost always need to have an ata/100 or ata/133 hard disk controller card added to a pci slot to use drives over 137gb. you also need an operating system that supports large hs's. references:
i would not sink much money into it. $$$ harddrive + more memory ++++etc = you can buy a cheap computer and have a machine that will work for you a lot better. some media cameras, mp3 players want usb 2.0 or you will need alot of patience. read some of your media apps requirements they also may want a bigger system. i have 2 desktops that are 400 mhz they are great for the kids to surf the net and play older games. i won't upgrade the computers. i bought myself a new computer and they have the older ones.
it just not worth it to turn that old thing into a media server. like everyone else said---slow -slow and just slow-!! u could just buy an emachine desktop for $550 emachines are not bad as ppl think they are. they have good quality with bring cheap. i had a dell and then i bought another desktop (e-machines) everything is awesome - i am gamer and so i buy a lot of pc games and emachines never let me down. i actually got it for multimedia purposes and it has never ever let me down except for the fact that i have been having problem with burning from cd-r/dvd combo drive but they have a really good tech support. and it wasn't the computer's fault either. the person from the tech support said that i mus have downloaded some software and when i uninstalled it, it probably deleted some of my file, and the tech person gave me instructions on how to solve it, too. also, i download a lot of free software from internet especially from download.com and unistall a lot of them, too and the comp. never caused any problems in that either. for $550, u will probably get (if u look for deal in flyers--there are many every two weeks of so) 1gig ddram atleast 160gig hdd microsoft media center 2005 (i recommened it) some good graphics card (probably ati) wat else do u need???!!! i hope this helps! -jay
