fter a couple months use, my monitor started showing horizontal lines all over the screen. some of the lines were small and some were quite large. then my system started crashing. sometimes it would recover and give me a message that said &quot;vpu recover has reset your graphics accelerator as it was no longer responding to graphics driver commands.&quot; other times it would not come back and i'd need to reset the computer. here's what i've tried so far: 1) uninstalled video drivers and reinstalled from files downloaded from ati site. when that made no difference, tried also with file downloaded from msi site. still no help. 2) tried two other monitors, one an lcd and one crt. same thing on both other monitors. 3) sent card back to msi. they checked it out & said it was fine. 4) installed new power supply. no help. 5) finally i uninstalled the radeon video adapters and the ati drivers. that stopped the system from crashing but i still get very small lines throughout the screen and the screen is very jerky when i scroll up & down. everything else is fine. i can run all my programs. the display is just very bad. i'm aware that this is not a very good vga card. is it possible that the drivers for this card are not compatible with my mobo? or could it be something else? my machine's specs: asus a8n-sli nvidia nforce4 sl amd 64 x2 4400+ 939 pin 2 gb ram pc3200 dimm msi rx300hm-td128e pci-express vga seagate 250 gb sata hd western digital 80 gb ide hd simpletech 160 gb external usb hd lite-on dvd-rom lite-on dvd-r/w hp scanjet 3970 hp deskjet 930c enermax eg651p-ve +3.3v/36a +5v/36a +12v/36a thanks for any help.
your story is typical of an overheated machine. who made this? you should contact them and get them to fix the machine since it's lifespan may be just a year or two. bob
the problem is undoubtedly with your video card. either it is defective, or it is overheating.
hi, i am also having the same problem but the same monitor is working fine with some other machine. and some other monitor is working fine with the fault machine. i tried renisatlling the os itself but i could not get retrified. i am usiong intel 845gvsr motherboard and philips 105sf and samsung 793s both giving the same problem.
my problem was solved when i upgraded my vga card. i bought a winfast px6600gt, which is made by leadtek, and everything cleared up. apparently, the card i had was not powerful enough to give me good video performance on this system.
