buddy brought in this old pc to look at... every time i power on, it posts fine, then win98 splash screen, then it reboots. over and over. cleared cmos, reset frequency multiplier, same symptoms. removed audio card, floppy drive, and all but one stick of ram, same symptoms. attempted to boot gparted live cd. went to selection screen, i chose failsafe mode, it rebooted. then tried memtest86+, memtest worked fine... attempted to boot ubcd... went to selection screen, but after choosing any of the tests, it rebooted. cpu temps are fine during pc health in bios... not sure what's wrong! some specs: abit-be6-ii mobo award bios pci/pnp 686 (270620240) intel pentium iii 300e mhz (slot 1) 512 mb ram (all three sticks in total) ati 66702 xpert 98 (rage xl) 8mb sdram 2x agp powerman 235w psu (fsp235-60gt) any suggestions??
since windows 98 boots that's a good sign. 98 rebooting could mean you need to install it again. many have forgotten how (i won't tell either) but you find these machines are often dumped because people have forgotten how to install the os. why i don't tell is it's all for the taking on the net. bob
in such cases, i review the specs of the mtrbd. and/or system so at least the &quot;cockpit&quot; is alright. i make sure what's plug-in and/or present is working on another system as in &quot;test bed&quot;. thus, i try to eliminate any possible sources of problems. because, of the reboot, i would swap out the psu for a known good one. alas, due to wear&tear to include age you can't trust anything. since this is a win98 based system, disconnect the hd and cd if present and note that in the bios. now, if in the bios doesn't it remain up and running there, like walk away for 10min. is it still working for some input? if yes, then provided a fd is connected, use a bootable floppy and what are the results? if it reboots, you have either a cpu or mtrbd. problem if the psu has been replaced. otherwise, if original psu, that maybe at fault. no telling what could be happening here. i have found real mice dropping, etc. that have corroded lands and/or eaten wires, etc., so a close inspection is warranted. a bad capacitor(cap) can be bad as in anywhere in the system, so don't discount that. further, what was the reason that system was put away? if it had some problem beforehand, you're revisiting it. last, hopefully if the system remains up and running during bios look see, be sure the battery itself is good. tada -----willy
