sorry in advance for the length... i couldn't really think of a good title to describe my problem, but that's as good as it could be, i guess. anyway, i've been doing a great deal of work on the hardware for my computer this summer, but i've been as careful as i can be. the problems started around when i added a modem and installed sp2 for winxp. i turn the computer on, and at some point, it decides it doesn't want to work anymore. then, it just freezes up, and i cannot do anything, except reset - which sometimes doesn't work until i disconnect the power, wait till it all drains out, then plug it back up and set to work. it's not the hard drive, because i put in a brand-new hard drive, and besides; it even locks up in bios sometimes. various things make me think it might be the power supply, but then again, i don't know - i still am learning about computer hardware. specs --- psu: antec 300w mb: intel processor: intel p4 (i think), 1.8 ghz ram: kingston dimm (?) 256 mb [pci]audio: astron/ensoniq/audiopci (not sure - says all three) [agp]video: some sort of agp card with added s-video support (don't seem any names...) case: it says mb on the front. hdd: western digital 200 gb dvd: lite-on dvd +/- rw cd: lg cd-rw i also added an extra fan. --- any clue what could be up with this? also, what's up with the 20 pin and 4 pin connectors that plug into the motherboard from the psu? i've seen 20 pin connectors, as well as 24, but never 20 + 4 (two separate connections). thanks, g'day. -christopher
could be spyware,adware,etc. another reason would be the low amount of ram.
the power cable, you mean thye 4 pin connector that plugs into newer mobos? not sure if yours needs that, and you understand about 24 pin cables. i would highly recommend updating your drivers (video and sound) as that's where most problems begin. what's your paging size set at? i would upgrade ram, but xp can be used on 256mb. konny
&gt;&gt;spyware, adware... &gt;no; i forgot to mention... it was even with a new installation of windows, and then again with a brand-new hard drive. &gt;&gt;power source/4 pin/etc &gt;my pc has a 300 watt power supply, with a 20 pin plus a 4 pin connector for the motherboard. &gt;&gt;updating drivers/paging size/ram &gt;well, the thing is, it sometimes even locks up in the bios, as it gets ready to boot into windows. anyway, i think the problem is most likely either in the motherboard, or the power supply, but i haven't another power supply that has the 20 & 4, so i can't try that. any other suggestions (thanks for those who have tried to help so far)?
well, i tested the power supply the other day, and it ran fine, as well as the computer. so the power supply works fine; now, i am thinking it is perhaps the motherboard, or maybe the ram causing the pc to lock up. any suggestions on this?
