hi what's the advantage of having tv tuner in pc? i think, i would still need to subscribe to comcast tv or dishtv to get the signals and channels i need. is this right? only thing maybe, i will not need a dvr and can use the pc as a dvr to record/pause tv programs. pc does not have a wireless card, so this means tv needs to be plugged to pc directly and pc turned on each time i want to see tv or use record/pause dvr features. is all the above correct? anyone heard of satellite tv on pc. here's the url:  they say we can watch 100's of channels for free ($67 initial fee) on pc, provided there's internet connection. is this a hoax? anyone using this service? how is the reception/service? thanks rajat
a pc tv tuner card will pick up your analog/basic cable channels but it won't tune satellite at all. some tv tuner cards can plug into your directv/dish box to control its channel selection and record from the s-video output. ati has released a tv tuner product that utilizes a cablecard but it is for system builders only (not available in retail) and somewhat problematic.  the-free-tv.com is not &quot;real&quot; us channels. most are from european feeds and you won't find the content you expect from cable or directv (espn, usa, disney, etc).
if you would like to know more about satellite and pc satellite tv, you can go to fta which is a free to air satellite website, read the forums there. you can install a pci tv satellite card and receive satellite tv on your computer monitor. the reception is extremely clean as it's digital and your monitor will make the picture better than a tv but not as good as hdtv. you can find any additional help on the forums there and no question goes unanswered and is generally answered in a matter of hours, seldom more than a day or two.
go to newegg and search sling thats your answear. if you want to record shows digital and otherwise directly to your pc from the satt/cable or any source also go to newegg and look under tv tuners and then kmedia its like 39$ not bad.
the website  has reviews of satellite tv for your computer.
i have leadtek winfast tv 2000 xp deluxe tuner. are there any possible ways to make it work with comcast digital cable tv? i will appreciate you help!
