hey guys i sold my pc and i been looking around for something with good music and dvd burning programs and i decided i should go with a media pc from hp os i can also transfer my old vhs to dvd. before i go out and shell ot the dough on it..is it worth it? i love the light scribe feature but hate intel....what do you guys think? yay or nay?
i'm not an expert on windows xp media center edition but do you need to have it? would windows xp home serve your purposes?  i found this slightly older hp media center pc with an amd athlon 64 3400+ / 2.2 ghz although you probably would need to throw in an extra 512mb of ram from what i hear. you can buy it at buy.com for $1071.99. looks like a good computer, check it out.
if you know how to build a pc (or know someone who does), shuttle and asus make barebone systems that can be configured to good media center pcs (asus spressoo deluxe even comes with a tv/fm tuner and remote) in fact, i'm assembling one for my sister to take to college soon. as for store-bought...i've got no idea there. i stopped following the pre-assembled computers a while ago, so i've not kept up wih who's good and who isn't.
xp mce is over rated. everything you want to do can be done with xp. the oem version of xp mce dosen't have a dvd player program,you have to add a oem player program. the ati hdtv wonder tuner card works great in xp. but xp mce has a lot of problems so the ati dosen't work as well. shop for or built yourself a good amd64 system. c-net as a course on bulding pcs just click in the box on the left tool bar or repost if you want more help. john
just purchased an hp m7060n from circuit city for $950.00 (does not include monitor). this model was just introduced last month. so far: difficult to network with other pc (gateway). has frozen up a few times. vhs to dvd transferring doable-but not very easy. tech support from hp: 1) very fast service. never have to wait 2) usually rep from india and difficult to understand...but be patient... love the tv function (watch and record) fm capability is ok..several local stations hard to get in clearly. all in all i had a rough transition period with this pc, but patience is not my virtue..and as i get more familiar with it...it's working out ok. you should probably check out sony's media center, too. i've heard good buzz on it as well.
i have the gateway 7200s media center pc and it is great i just sold my hp media center 2004. this system is much better. i hav'nt had any problems and tech. support is good ..just had some questions for them.. the only thing i changed was the audio card i installed a sound blaster adigy 2zs sound card i did'nt like the intel high def. built into the motherboard.. go for the gateway 7200s
