i recently started a support position at a small manufacturing company. they have a wireless router for the few laptops that are in use. apparently it currently only has access to the internet, not the rest of the office network, and my boss would kind of like to keep it this way. however, people using their laptops and this connection occasionally want to print. we have several printers in the office, most of which are managed by a central print server. my question is in essence this: is it possible to somehow 'dual-home' the print server or one of the printers, while keeping the wireless network isolated from the office network? i don't know specifically yet what the print server is running, nor what the printers are, but most of them are big and new(ish). not just little desktop models. also, the network right now is currently all p2p, which, i will be rectifying as soon as possible.
and p2p blows slow ass bits from hell the frist thing i would start on is updating the topology for sure using a mesh config you can get some good ideas from here  then you will have a good idea of what you want to accomplish with the network using vpn equipment on the intranet will slove any security issue's using a homemade (example(mycompanyn@tworkrouter#8674%^3) preshared key among the access points then encrpyt that key using encryption software then paste to the correct box in your router config there are hundreds of ways to configure it but i would loose the p2p for sure cause this is 2007 not 1980 and the data needs to flow you can find tweeks all over the internet to make your network flow like water from a faucet but these will be applied to each workstation and now would be a good time also about upgrading any os software there using too if have not allready if you are not down with network administration there are thrid party softwares out there that make it very easy to admin all your computers from one terminal and administrate the network as well 1-800-33qad;
in case i was not clear, by p2p i meant all files shared etc are done via normal windows filesharing. there is a file server which is used for a specific application, but other than that there is no central repository for stuff. there is no domain architecture or anything, but topologically it is similar to any modern network.
buy a desktop printer for the wireless network.
