i do backups of super-important data to dvd+rs. i use only highest quality verbatim or sony blank media to make sure that data will be still readable even after ten years. i used asus drw-2014 for burning my dvds but now its gone. i look for good replacement of my drive. i do some research for most realible dvd burner. most of reviews recommends pioneer dvr-112 or dvr-111 as most realible drive, but these drives are no longer sold. is there an alternative for these drives that is sold nowadays and produce the same quality (or even better) of burned media? thanks for any advice.
all have fallen to 3 or 5 year design life so while i thought plextor for a moment it's attack on open source gives me pause.  figure 50 bucks for a 2 year drive. bob
i can't give you any reliable information about how long you should expect them to last because i've yet to have one fail.
my thinking is also on plextor. if you like it wouldn't hurt to buy a 2nd dvd as a spare to use later or even a 3rd one, all boxed and stored away. sony, and philips if you can find one are good too. now, don't ask for some model#, just the brand i can say have worked well. tada -----willy
there are several sites to go to for info on dvd and cd burners and archival media. here's some:   adterrasperaspera.com/blog/2006/10/30/how-to-choose-cddvd-archival-media [and read the many comments on this article!] the author explains why dvd+r is better for data. also be sure to see if you have ide or sata because some burners are better for one or the other.
sony ad-7260s : high speed dvd rw drive (24x) are definitely the most reliable drives available, and they are fast, see;  as far as disks are concerned, if you want really long lasting ones, have a look out for taiyo yuden disks, i'm a professional photographer and use these for back-ups and have never had one fail.
higher rated big named brand cd-dvd drive like plextor, sony, pioneer, etc.,. stick with quality optical media and use mainstream software too. using cheap drives, non-brand-name drives, cheap/bargain media and no name sw could lead to poor results for the long run. re optical drives drives....i use mostly plextor and like them because they always work for disc writes and reads (in other drives) and they update the drive firmware periodically to address anomalies observed or reported by users. for cd-dvd software, i use roxio and have always been pleased with it. let us know what you decide on on how it works. vapcmd
lg's dvd burners can burn m-discs. (google 'em!)
this thread is more than 913 days old.
