hi there, just wondering if someone can help me please. i'm using all the latest drivers for my mac and yet still my epson r200 can't access any of the advanced features such as borderless printing or cd/dvd printing please help. thanks hayden
first thing you need to check is that you are actually using the epson drivers to drive your printer. to determine this, launch the printer setup utility. (given the lack of requested information, i'm assuming os x here) highlight (select) your epson r200 and then click on the show info button in the tool bar. in the resulting window, you should see the driver information. if there is a number like 5.x or the word beta, then you are not actually using the epson driver. let us know p
you might want to mention your os version and the type of mac you have p
hi there, just realised i didn't respond to the post. for that i apologise. i am running a macbook 2ghz core duo on tiger. if you could help with the r200 features i would be very appreciative. thanks (promising replies will be a lot prompter next time) hayden
could you answer the first question please thanks p
i can't quite click on what you say as it isn't an option, but it does say the version is 3.0 which i believe is the newest i could find on the website. awaiting your response hayden
if you do not have the icons in the printer setup utility toolbar, highlight your printer and, in the menubar at the top of the screen, go to printer &gt; show info. failing that, select your printer and press the apple key (next to spacebar) and the letter i [+]
i believe that's done it. as i had originally used it windows i was expected a separate program but hey if it works, it works. thanks hayden
is yours an intel based mac. i have loaded the driver and gone through epson's troubleshooting and i cannnot even get it to print. funnily enough it did for a while show the ink levels.
my system is mac os x with software version 10.6.5. the machine is standard and there are no additions except for a bamboo tablet. i'm sorry i did add this information to the end of my last post but probably not the way to work it.
