hi i have a hp pavilion slimline running 64bit windows7 it has the asus m2n68-la motherboard with a athlon2 x2 chip,when i turn pc on it loses audio after 5 minutes always if i restart it the audio is still not working.sometimes it tells me there is no speakers plug and puts the x over the audio button in bottom right of desktop other times i can see green pulsing on volume bar but still no luck,im totally new to pc,s so i dont really no what to try or even wether i should try anything or just take it to a shop anyway any advice appreciated. p.s. i have to leave pc shut down for a couple of hours before audio will come back on again.
1. reload the os from the factory (lose stuff we didn't backup?) and hope. 2. disable the onboard and replace it with a $2.95 in your mailbox thing like  and move on. 3. replace the motherboard. 4. try drivers (sorry but the number of times that works is low so it's in last place.) good luck. bob ps. about item 4. it rises to first place if you ever accepted a driver for motherboard or audio from microsoft!
thanks for advice 1. ive already tried putting o/s back to factory after someone told me itunes could cause it,so i wiped it and left itunes off. 2.i have a cheap graphics card so i can hook it up to my tv which works ok with audio but my monitor is dvi/vga only and i cant always use tv. 3.the pc is only just over 12month warranty by a couple of weeks how likely is it that the board could be faulty. 4.i have windows update to do all updates automatically i wouldnt no where to get right drivers or even if i was downloading the right thing. if possible to try installing drivers could you tell me how to do it if its not to much trouble. by the way graphics card is ati radeon hd4350 512mb gddr2 and the on board audio is realtek hd audio. like before thanks in advance for any help
but i can't see where i can help you further. the tv connection might have been hdmi and your system went all digital so the sound card was never used there. my exit at $2.95 is likely the cure. bob
thanks for help ive bought 1 of them usb audio stick lets hope that works
