i use my pc to create music i have a p4 2.53 intel processor with a gig of ram from ocz pc 2700. with 2 120 maxtor hd and my motherboard is a gigabyte ga --xxx not sure but it has ht tech and 533 fsb. i want to build another pc but what should i go with. i am looking for a processor that can hand large file we all know if you use protools or steinberg nuendo that recording tracks take up alot of processing and memory. what would be the pes cpu p4 intel or amd ?
amd athlon 64 all the way bro. they are so much better than p4's. i am just not sure the specific model you would want. u can get around a 3500+ for $330 canadian or you can get a 4000+ for like $500
i need to find out more about amd i have been building pentium pc's for about 8 years now. i have never use a pc with an amd processor i need to find out more. i did check the price and they specs look impressive but at that price is it really.
good reading
if you are looking for the future, i still prefer intel, that performs excellent with games only slightly being beaten by amd in various setups. people who have amd, and the young gamers with less expensive amd chipsets will naturally favor amd. in the professional area intel has the advantage over amd. later info from tomshardware in a november 15, 2004 article. a quote from their conclusion: &quot;if games are your main interest, amd is still impossible to beat. however, the more you move into the professional area with applications such as a/v encoding or rendering, the more attractive the p4 will be. increased support for the sse3 instruction set will only add on top of intel's advantage here; this is an area that still needs to be addressed by amd.&quot;  we have recently seen the advent of dual video cards in home use computers, re the asus a8n-sli deluxe motherboard. before long there will be dual core cpu's in home computers to complement the dual video cards, cpu systems similar to the server opteron system and xeon system. the front side bus (fsb) has recently jumped from 800 to 1066 and intel has introduced their 925xe chipset to support it.
