i have a p4 2.4 ghz (800 mhz fsb, ht) with 1 gb of ram, and 8xagp. i currently have an nvidia geforce fx 5200 video card with 128 mb of ram. the card is decent, but i notice it slowed down on some of the newer games i have. i want to upgrade, but have a limited budget (less than $200) to spend. i've been looking at ati's radeon 9800 pro with 128 mb of ram. is this a significant upgrade over what i have? i just want to make sure i'm making a decent upgrade...meaning an upgrade that will speed up the newer games out there. any help/suggestions would be greatly appreciated. thanks, bb
if u want cheaper, then go for 6600gt but the 6800 is better and well worth the xtra money.
thanks for the recommendation. however, i'd still like to know if it is a significant upgrade to go from my nvidia geforce fx 5200 to an ati radeon 9800 pro. are there any quantitative resources on the internet that compare how good video cards are stacked up against each other? again, any help is appreciated. bb
with going from nvidia to ati is the drivers switching and stuff...ur better off just sticking with nvdia and getting the 6600gt
your current video isn't slowing down its your gaming applications demanding more. getting a 9800pro is a step up &quot;chipset&quot; wise but its a dated chipset. you're logical step-up with nvidea is the 6600gt and keeping with what the look and feel of nvidea setting. let's face it, if you want to get the best video, you got to spend the $$$ and then wait awhile, it'be old news. considering your $200 budget, having the 6600gt is a good bargain compared to yet upper level chipsets. beware though, sooner or later it'll be the bargain offering probably in a yr. as pricing drops and then another chipset will take its place within that pricing range. fyi - getting a more powerful video card, you need to prepare to have a decent power supply of at least 350w or better. these new video cards are sucking the juice and if not taken care of will cause problems, system wide, if not shutdown or presistant reboots and/or bsds. happy usa -----willy
