i have an asus dvd-rw drive that suddenly doesn't recognize data discs. they appear in explorer but when i try to read the data the drive opens and asks to insert a disk. i checked bios and everything is ok, also the drive reads (and plays) music and video disks without problem. i appreciate any help. best regards
there are 20 ways i could make a data dvd. the top 3 are: a. drop and drop. b. single closed system. c. mulit-session. please tell a, b or c or if something else, tell what it is. bob
sorry i think i didn't explain myself well. what i meant was that when i insert a software dvd or cd in the drive autoplay doesn't run and when i try to explore the disk the drive opens ans ejects the disc. with music and video media everything works just fine
i'm going to give you a few links to read and ponder. 1. the autorun pests. read  2. the usual autorun fixer. read  3. tweakui and autorun options. read  and look at the tweakui screens about auto insert notification and autoplay. 4. autorun eater. read  my bet is item 4 is needed for you to explore the data dvd. bob
thanks a lot for your advises i would like to inform you that i tried to install &quot;autorun eater&quot; which i downloaded from cnet and mcafee alerts me that the zip file includes a trojan. best regards
there are affiliate download links that are known to have trojans. download.com is clean so far. there is also some tools that norton and others will balk at. this is one of them since it installs a handler and an av may not like that. this is as far as i'll explain it. for a deep explaination see our spyware forum. here it's solving the pest issue. and in closing, mcafee is not good enough yet to stop this new breed of pests. seems a shame it would paint the cure but not the pest. bob
hi, did you ever figure out how to fix the proble you were having with your disk drive? i am having the same problem. my dvd rom can read dvd movies but it cannot read any software disks. i wanted to reformat/restore my laptop but unfortunately i can't because the dvd wont read the restore disks. you can contact me at elizabether@hotmail.com. thank you in advance for any help given.
my answer is to swap the drive to save time and it often is the quick fix. most answers at link. bob
