inspiron 1521 amd turion, 1.80 ghz 1918 mb ram vista, home premium zyxel p-330-w router cannon ip4300 printer (on network) yo! back again with my continuing saga of networking woes - some days good, some days not so good! newest issue is that if i want to print something on the laptop (using the networked canon ip4300), it will only do so if i have recently rebooted or powered up the laptop. if the laptop has been on for more than a few hours, the print command just doesn't seem to take - most of the time, if i open the active printer, the command hasn't even registered with the printer yet. but if i restart vista on the laptop, by the time my settings have loaded, the document i was trying unsuccessfully to print will have finished printing! there's obviously some conflict at work here, or some setting i've overlooked - any suggestions? i'm getting closer to having this thing working properly - i can feel it! thanks for your response, john
there are a number of things that could be causing your problem it's really a matter of trouble shooting. here are two painless solutions you can try if you haven't already done so: #1 -download and install vista sp1 (highly recommended) #2 -right click on your network icon in the systray. -left click on network and sharing center&quot; or -click &quot;start&quot; &gt; control panel &gt; network & internet &gt; network & sharing center -under &quot;sharing and discovery&quot; make sure that &quot;network discovery&quot; is turned &quot;on&quot; if the above don't solve your problem (or you've already done them) we can look at other options.
network discovery is &quot;on&quot;, and i remember going through a long download of vista sp1 recently, but i also remember that d/l had some problems - how do you know that v. sp1 installed properly? thanks ajtrek, john
to verify installation of vista sp1 do the following; click start &gt; programs &gt; accessories &gt; systems tools &gt; system information you will see the following information with the version indicating installation of sp1 right after your os. os name
used your suggested route, and it tells me that my system has, version 6.0.6001 service pack 1 build 6001 so, i guess we're ok there. here's my network hookup info: desktop is cabled to lan port on router modem (fujitsu speedport dsl) is cabled to wan port on router printer is usb cabled to desktop laptop is using a dell wireless 1490 dual band wlan mini-card there are never any problems with internet connections. in the interest of giving you what may/or may not be good info up front, i need to let you know that i have two printers installed on my laptop (same printer - canon ip4300, but installed on two different ports; both as local ports - one titled &quot;usb002&quot;, and the other titled with the address of the resident printer on the desktop). both were installed per kaufmanmoore:  . i did not intentionally install the two printers, but this was the result of many attempts to get printer sharing &quot;on&quot; in network and sharing center. i worked on this for a long time and one day i looked and surprise, printer sharing was &quot;on&quot;! i then noticed the two printers being installed, but i thought maybe that was the reason why printer sharing had gone on. so i left them there. sorry about the long story, but i thought it may be meaningful, and if so, you should know asap. thanks for your assistance, ajtrek. john
wall &gt; fujitsu speedport dsl &gt; wireless router &gt; wired/wireless desktop using ethernet connection numbered port in wireless router. canon ip4300 connected to desktop via usb cable. update the firmware in your wireless router. broadcast ssid use wpa psk(tkip) security(most wireless devices work best with this type of security) mixed b and g mode(n if available) use channels 1, 6 or 11. most wireless devices work best on these channels. while you're in your wireless router, see what your lan ip range is. if you can, set the ip address of the printer around the upper part of the range so a computer doesn't try to get the ip address of the printer. you need to have a network. identical accounts on both computer with identical passwords. example: you need to have a drfugawe account on both computers. on the computer the printer is connected to, try this. disconnect the printer. un-install the printer. restart your computer. download and install the latest drivers from here . post back what your results are. rick
before we start to dig into your router and it's settings let's try one more check.... on your desktop go to control panel &gt; hardware and sound &gt; printers &gt; right click on canon ip4300 &gt; left click properties &gt; click &quot;ports&quot; tab and verify: -printer is connected to correct usb port click &quot;advanced&quot; tab and verify the following is selected: -always available -priority = 1 -driver = canon ip4300 -spool print documents so program finishes printing faster -start printing immediately -print spooled documents first -enable advanced printing features click &quot;security&quot; tab under &quot;group or user names -printer is available to everyone should be highlighted under permissions for everyone -print = allow click &quot;share&quot; here i'm going to make a few assumptions... #1 share this printer box is already checked #2 you have a name entered to identify the printer for sharing. now here's the tricky part. i know that you are running vista on your laptop. however, i don't know what os you are running on the desktop i'll assume it's not vista? you'll notice that there is a &quot;drivers&quot; box located in this tab (share) as well. read the explanation in the box and you'll get my meaning. i'm gonna go out on a limb here an make an assumption that your laptop in downloading the vista compatible drivers each time it prints to the shared printer. that's why you continually see the drivers being installed. so, the data is being sent to the printer cue, the drivers are being installed and by the time you reboot (your laptop) the document has printed. the following link better explains my point. in effect your desktop is acting as a &quot;server&quot; and your laptop is the &quot;client&quot;. the article is a little dated but the principle is the same.  click ok after downloading the correct print drivers. on your laptop open the ip4300 properties &gt; click port tab &gt; make sure it points to the &quot;shared printer name and its location&quot;. verify what i've just given you and if you agree let me know and i can provide a network print solution that ignores the os of the computer for faster printing.
(i'm going to copy/paste your questions below, and answer in parentheses, ie.(***) - don't see any other way to do this.) before we start to dig into your router and it's settings let's try one more check.... on your desktop go to control panel &gt; hardware and sound &gt; printers &gt; right click on canon ip4300 &gt; left click properties &gt; click &quot;ports&quot; tab and verify: -printer is connected to correct usb port (yes) click &quot;advanced&quot; tab and verify the following is selected: -always available (yes) -priority = 1 (yes) -driver = canon ip4300 (yes) -spool print documents so program finishes printing faster (yes) -start printing immediately (yes) -print spooled documents first (yes) -enable advanced printing features (yes) click &quot;security&quot; tab (no security tab! - using xp-sp2 on desktop) under &quot;group or user names -printer is available to everyone should be highlighted (not seeing this here) under permissions for everyone -print = allow (not seeing this here) click &quot;share&quot; here i'm going to make a few assumptions... #1 share this printer box is already checked (yes) #2 you have a name entered to identify the printer for sharing. (yes) now here's the tricky part. i know that you are running vista on your laptop. however, i don't know what os you are running on the desktop i'll assume it's not vista? (correct- i'm using xp-sp2) you'll notice that there is a &quot;drivers&quot; box located in this tab (share) as well. read the explanation in the box and you'll get my meaning. i'm gonna go out on a limb here an make an assumption that your laptop in downloading the vista compatible drivers each time it prints to the shared printer. that's why you continually see the drivers being installed. so, the data is being sent to the printer cue, the drivers are being installed and by the time you reboot (your laptop) the document has printed. the following link better explains my point. in effect your desktop is acting as a &quot;server&quot; and your laptop is the &quot;client&quot;. the article is a little dated but the principle is the same.  (you'll have to forgive me at this point, but i simply don't understand this article! there are too many terms being used in it that are foreign to me, and i can't get its intended points - sorry. but notwithstanding, i'll continue answering your questions and we'll see where that takes us - ok?) i think i remember installing the newest canon ip4300 vista drivers on the desktop, however, i think i simply went to canon's site, downloaded the drivers, and installed them on the desktop. i did not use any wizard, nor did i install them using any xp assistance linkage. so, i'm not sure that they are available when needed - and as i inferred, i'm really not sure that i dl'ed them onto the desktop when i dl'ed them for the laptop!) click ok after downloading the correct print drivers. (??? - say what? ...) on your laptop open the ip4300 properties &gt; click port tab &gt; make sure it points to the &quot;shared printer name and its location&quot;. (i'm not sure about your question here - when i go to control panal/printers/ the listed name of the default printer is &quot;ip4300(this is the share name) on melanie&quot;(the name of the desktop), under ip4300 properties/ports, the checked box is, &quot;usb002 - virtual printer port for usb&quot;.) verify what i've just given you and if you agree let me know and i can provide a network print solution that ignores the os of the computer for faster printing. (i hope i've answered your questions adaquately - now if i may, i've got a couple of additional questions/observations for you - i can't understand why on my laptop when i go into cp/printers/ip4300 on melanie/properties, the data is grayed-out - but this is the default printer! however, if i go the other installed printer (see my explanation in message # 5 above), it is not grayed-out, but there is a &quot;group&quot; designation noted for this printer, while the default printer has no &quot;group&quot; designation! is this part of the problem? what am i missing here? thanks ajtrek for your help - i hope i've answered your questions.) john
but please allow me to follow along with ajtrek's recs, etc., and then i'll get back to your suggestions. i'm afeared that if i try to make changes from both of you at the same time, we risk getting messed up even more than i am right now. so, thank you very much, and i'll soon be answering your message. talk at you soon, john
the benefits of this setup are: - ip4300 resides on your network - ip4300 is available to any computer connected to your network (wired/wireless) - no need to have multiple drivers loaded on each computer ----- laptop = vista drivers for the ip4300 ----- desktop (melanie) = xp drivers for the ip4300 long story shorti could bring a laptop running windows 2000 to your home, download compatible drivers for the ip4300, setup a standard tcp/ip port for the ip4300, connect to your network (with your permission) and print! heres a real world example: my girlfriend connects to my network with her laptop running xp and prints to my hp officejet pro l7680. i connect to her network with my laptop running vista ultimate and print to her cannon mp730 (which by the way is an older model than your ip4300). this solution will require you to invest in a print server and ethernet cable. i recommend the trendnet te100-p1u printer server because its inexpensive and easy to install. it may be ordered on-line from.... trendnet  for $55.99 dell  for $49.99 office depot  for $47.95 i found one locally at microcenter for a friend. youll need an ethernet cable long enough to run from the print server to a lan port on your router (you do have an open port?) connection sequence would be: ip4300 &gt; usb &gt; print server &gt; ethernet cable &gt; router. things you want to do first: - install xp sp3 on desktop computer (highly recommended) - download appropriate ip4300 drivers for the os installed on the specific computer store them on the desktop of each computer for easy access (* see note) - access your router's online admin and enable dhcp. dhcp enablement is usually under the basic setup tab in router admin. you should select automatic configuration for dhcp. enabling dhcp will automatically assign an ip address for the print server/ip4300 or any other device you connect to your router. be sure to save the settings and exit router admin. after you make the above connections youll want to obtain the ip address of the print server/ip4300 by going online again to your routers admin and look for the dhcp client table which will list the ip address for your print server/ip4300 write it down youll need it later. i have a linksys router and my dhcp client table is located under: - status tab &gt; dhcp server &gt; dhcp client table assuming everything thus far has gone without a hitch youre now ready to setup the ip4300 on your computersone at a time. heres how: control panel &gt; priners &gt; add a printer &gt; add local printer &gt; create new port &gt; standard tcp/ip port click next &gt; select auto detect (if available) &gt; host name/ip address (type the ip address you wrote down youll notice that the port name field populates automatically as you type) click next &gt; install printer driver here you can select canon on the left and ip4300 on the right (* see note) click next &gt; follow instructions from this point on its simple when you are asked if you want to set the ip4300 as default select yes when asked to print a test page select yes. if everything went as planned, you can click o.k. after the test page prints and start printing normally. if everything works as it should you can delete the icons for the previous ip4300 installations via control panel &gt; printers on each computer. keep me informed as to your decision. * note: if your ip4300 is not listed when you are asked to install print drivers - select &quot;have disk&quot; (browse to location where the drivers are located, select the file, click &quot;ok&quot; - follow instructions from this point.
yes, i'm sure this is a more immediate fix than the route i'm currently following - but, it discounts the fact that i am an old, obstinent, bull-headed codger with an intense desire to work out the bugs from my current buggy setup. if the current setup just flatout did nothing, then i'd sure look for an alternate solution such as a print server, or even network magic (which i also know will solve this as well), but each of those would require an investment which i simply don't have - $50 may be inexpensive from your perspective, but from mine, it'd require a budget adjustment i'd be hard pressed to make! it's as simple as that. so, i am very thankful for your willingness to assist in my quest, and if you have any additional insight into how we might tweek it a bit more, i'd love to hear your ideas - in the meantime, i'm going to continue looking for answers to my frustration. much appreciation, ajtrek. john
i still believe the problem may be caused by driver installation. so here's a link to canon to get the latest drivers for your ip4300. guess what...these drivers support windows/xp/vista/2000!!! there's no need to do a separate download specific to the os installed on each computer...just download and install on both. you may have to setup the ip4300 again on both systems with the new drivers. the instructions will ask you to select an os. it doesn't matter if you select xp or vista, as the download is the same.  however, before you download drivers or do anything...update the xp system with sp3...disregard that it says for it professionals and developers. here's the link:  let me know your results. good luck!
i used these guys to help resolve a fax issue with my hp officejet pro l7680. i spent over 3 hours with various levels of hp tech support only to have them tell me that faxing was not capable with my internet phone service. live chat with fixya resolved my issue in 1-1/2 hours, which includes the time it took to move back and forth between my laptop and the hp to try suggested solutions, type my response, and perform two-way test faxing. there are 3 levels of support: - live chat @ $14.95 (my choice) - premium @ $9.95 (email response) - post on forum of course, a credit card is required for the first two, but according to their policy, you dont pay unless you are satisfied with the results. heres the link if you are interested:  i did some research on your router the zyxel prestige 330w (assuming its the one listed in your cnet profile). it has several configurations depending upon how you intend to use it. the configuration used may cause it to generate rotating ip addresses, which can be a problem for clients on the network, and their attached peripherals (i.e. networked printer sharing). its not a flaw with the router and im not saying thats the cause, but its a thought. in addition, id recommend updating the firmware to v1.8. heres the link:  as a sidebar, fixya has specific solutions regarding issues others have had with the zyxel prestige 330w. this only means that fixya is familiar with the product, which is a good thing. they may be your best bet to resolve your issue, if none of what has been suggested works. i still recommend updating your xp with sp3, as it makes the os more network friendly. good luck and keep me posted.
