hi. i really appreciate if someone could help me. my home network is: - desktop with windows xp sp2 connected wired to a router linksys wrt54g v5; - xbox 360 connected wireless to the linksys; - printer connected wired to the linksys; - the router connected to the internet trought a ethernet modem siemens speedstream 4200 (ppoe connection). in that configuration the network works fine. all equipments connects to the internet and sees each others on the lan/wan. when i connect (wired or wireless) my notebook with windows vista ultimate on the network the connection with internet goes down (to all equipments). when i shut down the notebook, all equipments can connect to the internet again. i ran the &quot;diagnose and repair&quot; utility and the windows answer was: dns problem. i checked the dns configuration 1.000 times and it's everything ok... i thought the problem was between vista and the linksys router so i upgrade the firmware (v 1.02.0) of the linksys to the latest version. didn't work... after that i configure a static ip at my notebook and use the dns provided by my isp (ppoe connection). didn't work again... so i use my router in my office (different isp and internet modem) and my notebook could access the internet (wired and wireless) normally (so the problem isn't vista x linksys). when i bring the router back to my home the problem occurs again. i think the problem is with the speedstream modem 4200 (firmware not compatible with vista?) or with my isp. anyone have any clue about this issue? thanks in advance! theo.
you didn't tell about that. read this one -&gt;  bob
tks for your time. i'll read.
my new vista notebook couldn't connect to it. i spent the whole afternoon to google and try different ways to fix it. it turns out that the simplest way is changing the channel of router. hope this helps.
the siemens speedstream 4200 bridge mode? is our big clue here. it won't work out of the box. fun to configure. tell more. bob
hi bob. how can i verify if the siemens router is configured in bridge mode? in that case, how i have to configure it? thank you in advance. theo.
i noted a link and it was very clear to me how to tell. if you will not read supplemental links to the discussion please tell me so i know you won't do that. bob
i read the link you sent. i can't change to the bridge mode beacuse the modem isn't with the default admin/password fields. i don't have access to change the configuration. i think my internet provider changed that. i tried reset (according to the siemens website -  ) the modem to the factory configuration but the reset doesn't work too. i don't know what to do... thanks for your help.
if you can't administer the modem then it's game over. to get wifi you need to use what we call a wap (wireless access point.) this adds wifi without you needing to reconfigure the modem. here's an example linksys wap -&gt; wap54g at  sorry to hear you're locked out. bob
these are cheap cheap cheap. so the setup since we can't configure the modem is... speedstream modem -&gt; switched hub -&gt; pcs and wap54g. hope this helps, bob
ok bob. thank you.
