okay, so... i think i should start off by saying that i'm reaaaally new to the hardware stuff and that i really don't know too much about it. feel free to talk to me like i'm a five-year-old about this stuff. i recently bought a couple of new parts for my old hp pavilion desktop to make it at least up-to-par for gaming nowadays, because i didn't want to spend too much money. everything went in perfectly fine and my computer didn't complain at all, except for the video card. i bought an amd radeon hd 6870 off of newegg pretty cheap because of the holiday sales and such. for future reference, it has two dvi ports, an hdmi port, and two really small ports, which i'm not sure what they are. anyway, the manual told me to follow some steps to get it installed with all of its drivers, which was pretty much just &quot;uninstall or disable current onboard graphics drivers, turn off and put in video card, turn back on, change primary video to pci-e and use the cd for driver installation.&quot; i did just that, except it didn't quite go the way i wanted. the fact that i'm new to the hardware scene makes it difficult for me, because i don't know exactly what is supposed to happen. i'm pretty sure that i was supposed to, after putting the video card in, plug my monitor into the dvi port on the video card and start the computer up. when i did this, the monitor didn't get a signal from the computer and remained at a black screen. when i used another cable (because my monitor has both vga and dvi ports) for vga to plug into the motherboard, the screen showed up like regular. from here i assumed &quot;okay, i guess i just have to use the installation cd from here, then use the dvi for the video card after i install and reboot.&quot; so when i got to the desktop and ran the cd, it said that it didn't recognize any of its products, and that i should either reboot and try again, or look for drivers online. i don't really know how to find drivers for video cards online very well, so i decided to reboot. let it be known, at this point, that the video card is inserted into its pci-e slot correctly and that the fan on it is spinning, so i know that it's in right and not fried or anything... unless you can fry everything but the fan, which doesn't sound right. i rebooted (still using vga port from mobo) and it still gave me the same message. whenever i try use the dvi cable between my monitor and the computer, i just get a black screen. that's pretty much the entire situation, and there are only a few potential problems that i can think of, but i was hoping to get some feedback from people that know what they're doing before i try to fix anything anymore. 1.) i have the wrong kind of dvi cable (because i vaguely remember being told that there are different kinds of dvis) 2.) there's something wrong with the video card, even though the fan is working. 3.) the installation cd is just dumb, and it can be solved b downloading drivers online. (if somebody thinks this is it, can you please provide a link? i suck at this. ;n; 4.)there's two slots for a power cord on my video card. i only have one power cord plugged into it from the power supply. pretty sure that it only requires one, but not positive if it needs two or not. 5.) i simply did something wrong. if it helps, i'm using windows 7 ultimate os. i would love to hear from you guys, because i would really like to be able to play games at higher than 15 fps, which is all that my laptop can handle. thank you very much! please ask if you need any additional details!
well, revert back to dvi and assure that the monitor itself under it selection menu(if applicable) uses dvi instead of vga. next, since you used vga back at the mtrbd. port, that suggests it never really swapped over. you need now to follow the instructions and repeat the install. when you shutdown, connect to dvi and make sure monitor uses dvi. also, the video manager s/w may also provide insight to finer tune the setup, but of course you need to see display. what does the hp manual(or online support of same) state about installing video card? you want help provide &quot;full details&quot;, hp pcs do vary. different dvi cables? i can't offer real help other than most dvi cables are the same from my understanding, so what makes yours different. you're so vague and again your hp model# should state what it needs, again refer to manual -or- what your monitor asks for.   i would suspect that the hp pc &quot;auto-sets&quot; the video connection at the pc. but, it has to acknowledge its there. so, be sure the new video card is fully seated and properly power connected. hp tends to provide only the basic psu for the pc sold. thus, you have assure stable and continued operation that the psu is ample to supply the new video card. i suspect the 6870 needs a 400w or better psu and your current hp psu is 350w, check and verify. also, the new psu should provide the dual-video power plugs as well, so verify if brought and if needed. tada -----willy
that's a 151w gpu. you must use two aux power connectors. at a minimum you will need a 500w psu. a nice 600w single rail unit would be better.
pertains to your stock (?) psu. most off-the-shelf systems don't have sufficient power to expand the system with lots of extra components especially power hungry components like a high-end gaming card. in addition, being most hd 6870 gpus have their own power connectors that must be connected for it to function properly. if you've already taken care of the psu...maybe the card is just defective. keep us posted. vapcmd
my apologies for the late response. i also bought a 600w psu, which works perfectly fine. i only have one power connector from the psu to the card, though. if what bob b says is true, that i need two, that could very likely be the problem. i'd like to hear from more people first, though. also, sorry for being vague and not giving enough information. i'll get the hang of it eventually. ^ ^
connect the psu to both. better psus have two so by all means ...connect 'em. exactly what psu did you install ? vapcmd
ocz modxstream pro 600w psu here's the newegg link, if it helps.  i only have one of the power connectors. i'll have to go out and get another.
psu connectors with that psu. one is 6 pin only the other is 6+2 pin. how long have you had the psu ? vapcmd
i bought it at the same time as the video card, which was at the start of december 2012. so about a month and a half. haven't really used the computer much, and just now actually trying to set it up. i just ran out to every computer/office store that i know of, and nobody had any of the 6/6+2 pin connectors. i'll have to order one online and come back to this thread later, when it arrives.
missing cable since the psu is modular. guess you could get an adapter to fit on another lead until you get a modular 6/6+2 connector. here's a modular cable for an ocz psu 6/6+2  vapcmd
