i ganna buy a new package computer. i want to know which one do you guys think is the best one? also i want to know how do you think these comps will handle a game like battlefield 2?        tell me which one is better suited and which one is better please, and yes i do like that 21&quot; screen but to much dough.
these all use uses an intergrated video thingy, and bf2 wants 256mb of ram on a seperate video card to run.
for gaming, i would recommend a system that has a dedicated video card (not integrated and no shared memory). ...or add an upgrade video card with dedicated video memory to an existing system. this often requires an upgrade to the psu as well.
so whichever monitor u want...or the 2nd to the last one the a1350n...unless u want the tv tuner which would be the last one then. i agree with video card upgrade needed for any of them. imo...i would suggest the emachines t6216, athlon 64 3200+, 512mb ram, win. xp home. upgrade to 1gb of corsair value ram 70 dollars, put in better psu 80 dollars, and 6800gs 160 dollars. to total of around 800-900 dollars.
you're looking at a wide range of pcs including media center pcs. you should decide the top 3 things you want your pc to do, then pick a pc that's good at those things. for instance, don't spend the extra cash on a media center pc unless you want it to be your media center and you'll be watching tv/movies, timeshifting tv, recording tv/dvds, and listening to music on it all the time. a regular pc can do these things with a few upgrades, but if you want to put a pc in your living room to do these things often, then get a media center pc. if your top 3 things you want to do are &quot;play the sims&quot;, &quot;surf the web&quot;, and &quot;download music&quot;, then just get an inexpensive pc. if you're top three things are &quot;play battlefield2&quot;, &quot;convert dvds to divx&quot;, and &quot;edit videos&quot;, then get a pc with an amd x2 or p4-d and a fat video card like an ati x1800 or geforced 7800.
one thing to remember is that for gaming a ram above 1 gb and a pci-e graphic card and amd 4000+ processor
i just upgraded from 1gb to 2 gb of ram and bf2 runs much smoother, even playable on my crappy 128mb ram 9800 pro. ever considered building it yourself?
