i bought an alienware area-51 a little bit more then a month ago. when i put it into sleep mode, it starts again after a minute or two. some times it just starts a second after it goes to sleep. thats very frustrating since i use the sleep mode a lot. im running a norwegian windows 7 professional... can that be a problem?
did you call it in? the reason i ask is many wait till it's out of warranty and then flame about this. bob
can that be a problem? only if you can't understand norwegian. did you go to the power settings through the control panel?
no i havnt, but i can try that
i dont know if the w7 is the problem. it shouldnt be right? yeah i tried going to power settings but dont know what i should do there. any ideas?
who installed windows 7? home users usually are (blissfully) unaware that we can't install windows without hunting for the install plan for this machine. i do not have the install plan for this machine (dell or alienware has it) but here's my generic install plan with added note for windows xp. 1. install the os. 2. install the motherboard chipset driver. 3. if xp and required install msuaa (see google) 4. install the audio driver. 5. install the video driver. 6. install lan, wifi drivers. 7. if a dell, may required the quickset software. 8. install protection suite. bob
dell/alienware installed everything for me. it came with w7
i just wanted to be sure it was not caused by us.
my alienware use to go to sleep if it was on for an extended amount of time with no problem, but now it will not sleep on it's own and when i try to manually make it sleep, it will turn the monitor off, and then immediately turn the entire system back on. i tried to power down using the power button when this kept happening, which also wouldn't work so i then pulled out the power cord. i waited about ten seconds and put the cord back in. i did not press any buttons and my alienware turned it's self on right as the power was restored and 'came out of sleep' skipping the loading screen and going directly to my desktop reviewing my notepad documents that i had open before previously taking the power cord out. seems like alienware has some sleep issues, or the systems are possessed.
