my eeepc 1000ha has a 160 gb sata hd, an atom n-270, 2 gb ddr2. is it worth the trouble to replace the hd with an ssd (i have a usb adapter to use to clone it) now that some 80gb -120gb ssds are down to &lt;$110? this hd is partitioned with c: = ~80gb and d:= ~60gb-used space = 1%(used space never grows for d:). what is this d; drive all about, recovery? it's awful big for that function. for the ssd (80gb for example) hoiw big should i make the d: drive?
but you would never be sure if the os was installed to support the trim or other functions so it's life span may be a little shorter. please google about ssd trim functions. bob
it;s running windows xp sp3 with all the updates available. i'm guessing from your reply that it won;t likely support trim.
xp as far as i've found does not support this. sure, your money, your choice. did you consider a hybrid drive since it will get you the speed without that issue? bob
sounds interesting but the smallest capacity drive i've seen is the seagate momentus 500gb drive. that seems pretty large for a machine that has only consumed 27% of it's 82gb c: partition in 3 years. i'll check it out further though. that adaptive firmware sounds pretty cool.
updated, faster. i have a pair of the 500gb and in about a month may change to the 750. review at  this is not so much about space but speed without as much of the worry. bob
am i correct in assuming a simple cloning to a momentus xt would give me a direct functional physical replacement for my eeepcs hdd? is there any problem with xp home 32 bit addressing a 750gb hdd? i know there's a ram address-ability limit of 4gb.
my bet is you don't have xp but xp sp1, sp2 or sp3.
i stated that assuming some universality since the update to it has always been free. does sp2 or sp 3 correct that hdd size problem? might that be part of the reason for asus establishing such a large d: partition on my eee pc? what about physical drive size, can it be overcome via multi-partitioning?
but the issue was first corrected in xp sp1 so you won't have to deal with that issue in any way at all. bob
...but to answer your question about the d: partition: for some odd reason, asus splits the hard drives in their netbooks into 2 similar sized partitions. there is a third, hidden, and much smaller partition used for system recovery. you can use something like easeus partition manager to change the size and number of partitions on a drive.
