hello this is what i am looking for, i have a labtop computer so i need some type of combo pcmcia card for esata and maybe like usb2.0 or firewire if you could send me a link to one that would be cool. also someone said that i should get an esata combo with active cooling does anyone know of any good ones like that if you could send me a link to that also i would really appreciate it. i have been trouble finding stuff with esata and have no idea about any of the manufacturers i have come across so far. thanks for your help.
even at trade shows. as to cooling, a laptop cooling pad may be today's answer. and while i've found sata pc-cards and usb 2.0 cards, none have &quot;active cooling&quot; so the only hope is the cooling pad. the e on esata stands for external which is by nature of being a pc-card will be automatic. therefore you just need to get a sata card and you're done. to get the usb 2.0 card and sata to fit in the 2 slots you'll have to pay a bit more for those usb 2.0 cards built with dongles. sorry, i will not search for these products for you but have in the past and they are still available in the us. bob
im sorry bob i am not the best with wording. i was going to get a pcmcia card with usb2.0 and sata connection for my labtop so i could hook up a esata hard drive, the guy i talked to said to get the esata combo drive with active cooling( i dont know what that is). i can find the pcmcia card but was wondering what your take is concerning the esata drives and if you could lead me to a good manufacturer of them 200-300gb with this active cooling, is this for the hard drive or for the labtop as you suggest?
&quot;i was going to get a pcmcia card with usb2.0&quot; you may have written this incorrectly but there has never been a pcmcia card with usb 2.0. god knows people wanted them. you also need to know that the e in esata is just denoting it's external so don't be discouraged if you find only the usual sata pc-card. i've declined in helping you search for exact products for a simple reason. you may be in peru. besides you can look at the usual sites like google, newegg and more. active cooling in an external hard disk case is ... &quot;a fan.&quot; again, the fancy words with such simple meaning. bob
that solves all my questions thanks for being so helpful.
what os are you running and does your laptop have usb 2.0 ports ?
i am running windows xp and my labtop still has 1.1 ports. thats why i asked if there was a usb 2.0 and sata pcmcia card available. i just found this  and i think this might be what i will go with.
under constant use the cases without fans have shown a tendency to overheat. ncq is not exclusive to this make so i'd take the marketing geewhiz words with a grain of salt. -&gt; it fails at first glance to meet your spec. bob
that indicated active cooling not to mention the cost...yikes. if it was mine, i'd try to find a pcmcia card that gives you usb 2.0 and buy that. generally speaking external hdds are really quite inexpensive ...see techbargains.com for weekly ads. you can also 'build your own...you pick the external enclosure and the drive and put them together yourself. let us know if you find the pcmcia usb card...usb 2.0 is plenty fast for most hdds. vapcmd
compatible with usb 1.1. good buer reviews too.  this would give you the hardware interface to use any usb device including you choice of usb external hdds, external cd/dvds, flash drives etc., you can buy prebuilt or put together your own depending on need preference and budget. if you buy prebuilt ...i'd avoid maxtor as post for failures 'seems' higher than most. let us know. vapcmd
hello bob, i know it does not meet what i was looking for in the specs but i wonder what you mean by ncq is not exclusive to this make also thanks for letting me know about the overheating thats probably why i was told to get one with a fan, it was just something i was looking at and posted a link to see what response i might get about the possible choice. @vapcmd thanks for the help but i didnt have trouble finding the usb 2.0 solutions just stuff concerning the sata drives. thanks again bob and vapcmd.
but a good ad writer will grab anything to make their product sound better. bob
way less than $280 ... and if you build your own vs buying prebuilt...you can get a much better drive warranty ... most are 3 to 5 years. packaged units only come with 1 year warrantys. vapcmd
after bob pointing out about the overheating and you pointing out about the price and warranty that i could gain by just builing one i will start my search in that direction , thanks.
