i am trying to see if anyone else has this problem. i am a two finger typer, but type fairly fast. i write a lot on my computer, every day. generally, i look at the keyboard when typing. i also tend to type hard, but this issue is there even when i try to type softer. my problem is that i'll type a paragraph and then look up to proof my text and a significant number of characters are missing. this has continued with three different systems and multiple keyboards (wired and wireless). apparently, the problem is me, but i am still fascinated by this matter. i spent a tremendous amount of wasted time adding characters that are missing. given i type with two fingers, and i stare at the keyboard, i cannot fathom how so many characters do not appear. so far on this posting, i have had to add five missing characters. just imagine how many corrections i have to make in a year. this single problem must cost me days of wasted time. if you have any suggestions, i am open to anything. i have even thought of filming my typing to assure i hit each key, but could not get a good camera angle. i would need to use at least two cameras. anyone else experiencing this?
i cannot offer any reason as to why the keys are being missed, if indeed they are, but i could offer some help when it comes to adding the characters back in. do you have the system wide spell checker turned on? if so, all the words with missing characters should show up as spelling mistakes. right click them, choose the correct word and replace the word. gotta be faster than inserting a character. p
i use 10.6.2 os. where do i turn on system wide spell checker? there is some sort of spell checker running in most applications, so i suspect it is on. however, for some reason, in many cases where a character is missing, the computer does not report it as a misspelled word. anyway, thanks for your help. i tried filming from the front, but could not get a good camera angle. i'm thinking maybe i need another person to film as i type, moving the camera as needed. if i am physically missing this many keys, i may need my brain jump started. typing this simple passage above, i had to insert four missing characters. i am perplexed. btw, i am a 53 year old man, educated, and a writer. just in case someone might think i'm 18 and really have not typed that much. two years ago i went to an apple store and had someone watch me and he said i was hitting the keys, even when charters did not appear. he thought i typed too hard, but as an ex computer tech, i cannot see how that would matter. i try not to type too hard.
if you are seeing red underlines when you type in this forum, then the spell checker is on. to check, go to edit &gt; spelling & grammar &gt; check spelling as i type. spell checker should see words with missing characters as misspelled, unless the word still makes sense. p
