windows xp home edition dell xps 600 hp deskjet 812c this hp 812c was on a dell l800r w/windows me. it had a parallel connect and bidirectional communication capabilities. to connect to xp i had to change the cable to usb connection. installed per cable instructions and also per hp instructions. printer is identified correctly and usb port show usb001 virtual printer. when trying to configure port i get an error message: &quot;an error occured during port configuratiion.this operation not supported&quot; the check box for &quot;enable bidirection support&quot; is greyed out you cannot check it.installed new driver from xp. during boot of xp the add hardware wizard will open and a popup stating &quot;new hardware detected&quot; and indicates the printer is not installed. the printer will printer if you turn it on but will not turn on and print if you hit print in an application. it always printed in me when you hit print and you had enabled bidirectional support. did i end up with a wrong cable. thanks for the help ray
the drivers are not correctly installed. the driver for a usb connection may be different than for a parallel connection. when the correct driver is installed, the printer should be recognized as hp 812c printer. if you no longer have the driver cd for the printer, you can visit the hp website to check for the proper usb driver for the printer. best of luck
thanks for the reply: i did a search of the hp website for usb drivers for xp and deskjet 812c with no success. finally sent hp support a question about my problem. their answer was the same old &quot;basic sediment and water&quot; i always get from those folks: &quot;deskjet 812c printer does not have auto on feature&quot; why did it work for 5 years on me as auto on mode??? there are no drivers for this printer that are specific to usb. they are saying possibly usb controller corrupt. my keyboard and mouse and connection to lcd monitor are all working properly they are all usb ports. too say the least i have not gained any further knowledge from hp support than from their knowledge base. again thanks for your help ray
purchase usb to parallel coverter, or you can install a pci card (parallel port}. this will give you the parallel port connection. of course there's no guarantee that the bidirectional support will be available.
would that get me back to lpt1 or would it still use usb001 then would i use the driver software that came with the printer or an updated driver from hp. not familiar with pci card with parallel port. which would be more likely to give me bidirectional thanks ray
i can't honestly tell you how a converter would be recognized by the computer. however a pci card would certainly be recognized as a parallel port or lpt 1, etc. i can't tell you that bidirectional support will be restored, but it will give you a parallel port to connect the printer to the computer. this is one such card:
was getting a similar problem - except that the printer worked fine after just starting the pc - but after a short while - nothing, with the same error message. if yours is the same problem i dont think it has anything to do with cables. instead, check if the usb port to which your printer connected does not automatically power off. if it does, the virtual printer port associated with usb001 port is disconnected. to fix this, open 'control panel &gt; system &gt; device manager' - then open 'universal serial bus controllers' - find the usb port to which the printer is connected (probably one of the 'usb root hub' connections - rt-click &gt; properties - then on the 'power management' tab - de-select &quot;allow the computer to turn off this device to save power&quot;. assuming yours is the same problem as i had - this should fix the problem. good luck to you.
