my hp hard drive just went splat (i'm at the library now). the hard drive i have is an ide drive, but the pc i am about to buy has an sata drive. i'm told i can not put the ide drive in the new pc with the sata drive, as my current pc wont even boot up how can i get the info on the ide hard drive off & somehow on to the new pc with sata drive? please please help thanks
this can be done as the mb will have 2 ide channels. depending on how the new system is configured you should have one ide port open. attach the ide drive to the open ide port, on boot access the bios primary boot device setting. make sure that the sata hdd is the primary boot drive. the issue may be xp not recognizing the drive and its data properly. you say the drive went splat .... meaning? bill
the pc shut down & tried to reboot but seems to be stuck in a re-boot loop. i was told by a computer savvy friend that the hd has sort of crashed or the operating system part of it anyway. so now it wont load up anything. it gets to the windows loading screen, flicks then reboots again but very very slowly the does that same thing. it is a 4 year old hp which up until now no similar problems.
if it'll boot in sm, the problem is probably fixable.
boot with a bootable floppy or cd and try using windows to access the drive. there may be a way to put the ide drive into your new computer with a connector card. take a look at compusa or best buy stores in your area for such devices.
i have tried in safe mode but still does the same thing
i dont have a bootable disk, is there a website or link where i can get it from on another computer then put this disk in mine & try that. i tried asking at the store and they looked at me kind of funny & said i could not put the ide drive in the pc with the sata drive then tried to see me a new sata drive.
hp's have a recovery partition that gives you the option to re-pair or re-install windows. generally using the f10 or 12 key allows access. also some hp's have the recovery consul installed. on boot watch for boot optioin menu. if it is their select recovery consul via arrow keys and press enter. at prompt to select os #1 (not the correct wording, but you will understand when you see the prompt), press enter. at the next prompt for admin password press enter. at the prompt type chkdsk /p /r . generally this fixes windows kernal files allowing system to boot to windows. and last, using the f8 key to access the boot option menu, select turn off auto re-start, press entry. this will stop the loop giving the bsod error message. luck bill last thoughts never end ..... if you have a dial-up account remove modem. i've seen damaged modems create some wierd issues ....
i would like to know what windows operating system you are using. if it is windows xp then you can use your xp cd to boot up with. hope this helps.
when i boot up i see the blue screen with the f1 & f10 options but when i hit f10 it does nothing at all.
i am using xp but it came pre-insatalled & i have no disk
hp and others will ship you cds for some small fee. much cheaper than buying another copy of xp. typical is 35 buck (or less) which beats the 199 buck retail price of xp. bob
