i just upgraded my motherboard to a pc chips m863g, and i'm having some trouble with it getting to boot. in short, there is no booting. no beeping, no flashing, so then there's most likely a short about. the last time i tried to install a motherboard, i had this exact problem. i ended up taking it to a technician, and when he fixed it up, and i asked him what the problem was, he told me that something to the effect of my cpu clock being off sync with my fsb, or something. to this day, i have no idea how to adjust that setting on the motherboard, and i'm becoming pretty frustrated. the manual is total garbage. and if anyone already has had experience with this board, i did plug in the 4-pin power plug as well as adjusted the cmos jumper. specs: proc: amd athlon xp 2400+ ram: kingston ddr400 512mb gpu: nvidia geforce 5500 fx plus a lite-on cd/dvd drive and another atapi dvd drive and two running virtual drives
seems that you did what i had to do with four of them to get the supply to turn on. they all came with the cmos jumper in the wrong position. in the case of these the manul showed the positions correctly, just that the mobos shipped with the jumper in the wiring position. one thing common to putting new mobo in old case is to miss the fact that there is a hex standoff left on the mounting plate that does not line up with the new mobos plated ring mounting holes. this results in shorting the artwork on the bottom layer of the mobo.
lay it on a piece of cardboard with ony cpu/hsf, memory. plug the supply in and use the tip of a small slot screwdriver to momentarily short the two power on pins on the mobo togeter. the power supply should turn on and stay on, until you short the pins again, possibly for 4 or 5 seconds. btw way, this should work with a brand new mobo with nothing added. should work right out of the box.
pressing the on off switch repeatedly. that worked for me yesterday. i bought a mobo and put everything in and when i pressed the power button nothign happened. i thought somethign was wrong so i kept flcking the power supply switch on/off while keep pressing the power button and my mobo turned on.
i bit the bullet and took it to the geek squad. a guy that looks like elliot smith took all of 10 minute to diagnose it. as it turned out, the little power/reset/leds were miscolored. d'oh. thanks for the help though. you guys do a good thing here.
