i am torn between the dell inspiron 530s and 531s. prices have dropped putting both in a similar $$ category. cnet has only reviewed the 531s. is that the best choice
it's a standard 64bit setup. if a name means that much to you, then buy either one.
i think there is a difference. the last time i looked, one of them was amd-based and the other was intel-based. i have also been wondering which to choose. i hope someone else will reply about the merits of intel vs amd for a desktop like these.
like i said, i wouldn't buy either because they are 'slimline' form factor and while reduced footprint has it's initial appeal ... it later means problems adding internal drives or higher performance peripherals (video comes to mind) not to mention the reduced form factor, reduced output psus. cooling is another problems users often face using slim lines. recognizing those limitations and forgoing hope of adding internals or gpus ... a slimline might work for you. not me. you can buy which ever you prefer however intel is clearly the better choice from a performance, energy use and heat generation. good luck! vapcmd
...make sure you get a model with a core 2 duo if you can at all justify it. it's a lot faster, and the earlier cpus usually can't handle 64-bit code should you choose to migrate to vista 64-bit (or its sequel in 2009-2010). the 531s is similar in other regards, but the athlon 64 x2 just isn't as fast. also, if you're looking at going slimline, don't rule out a mac mini unless you need windows-specific programs or you can't justify getting their mac equivalents (for most people, this just means a cheap copy of office student & teacher edition at $150). it's much smaller than the inspiron or even the hp box and more power-efficient, too. arguably, you're going to have an easier time with the full-size inspiron 530 if you're just looking for an inexpensive tower.
i would disagree to a point. if you are going to get a slim model get what you want now instead of adding on later as adding peripherals can cause problems. i have a slim model c521 and love it. if space is a factor and or you don't want bulky, it is the way to go and they are a powerful unit if you don't go cheap at the start. amd vs intel. once again it is up to you. i have both intel and amd and love both. i enjoy the amd for gaming as i have it overclocked and does the job well. i use my intel for work with multi-tasking and does the job well. it comes down to the brand & bang for the buck. everything is so competitive today...
i hate to burst your bubble; but, archtecture has a certain set of flags. amd64 and emt64 have the same flags with the differences only in the naming of a few. if you had a computer with a choice of sparc64, mips64, ppc g4+, arm64, or anything with a 64/128 bit address then i would say, &quot;go for the sparc.&quot;
you have a choice for the &quot;slimline&quot; form factor, but it isn't neccesary. there are normal sized choices for both. i prefer the 530 because of intel. intel-based pc's have a reputation for lasting longer and running cooler. go with the 530. that's what i'm doing.
