hello my wre54g is giving me problems. whenever i try to log into the webpage to configure it (192.168.1.240) it does not load. i have it wired to my router (wrt150n) and have tried accessing it from a windows 7 wireless connection and a windows vista ethernet connection. but both can't access the page. i have tried holding the reset button for 15 seconds and still the same thing. i was able to access it before but had to reset it for some reasons... anyone with some help??? thanks, tony
shows this is a range expander. to access that after a reset we have to set it to pair with our router first. this is far from automatic. &quot;if the wireless network is secured, you cannot use the range expanders auto configuration button.&quot; and i see if your pc is connecting to the router, you can't configure the range expander. ouch. this one is a bit tough on owners. i bet a lot get returned. try this. turn off the router then turn on the extender. now reboot the pc and see if it picks up the extender and try the setup per the instructions. at some point you can configure the extender and tell it how to connect to the wifi router. bob
&quot;try this. turn off the router then turn on the extender. now reboot the pc and see if it picks up the extender and try the setup per the instructions. at some point you can configure the extender and tell it how to connect to the wifi router.&quot; the extender has a power plug and a ethernet cable. i might sound stupid, but i can see the extender in my wireless connections, but it fails to connect... if i turn off the router where do i plug the ethernet cable into? i have been able to access it before but for some reason it stopped working and i cannot access it. i usually access it by plugging the ethernet cord into the back of the router, then just type in the ip address.
we can't run ethernet and wifi at the same time. as to explaining all this i must decline. i offer ideas on what i would try along with references to the manual. in the faq from the maker the setup should work. if not we call it defective and ask for a refund. it's that simple. if the makers can't get the instructions to the point we can use the products they deserve the returns. again, i used their faq and my experience to see if we could find another way to setup. it's possible your lan is not on that address range but i would be guessing that. by using wifi and no router the extender may be reachable. bob
