i'm looking to get a new wireless router because i'm upgrading my internet speed (it's going to be at 12mbps) and want to take advantage of it. so far i've looked at a limited number of them, and the main one that has caught my attention is the netgear wireless-n router wnr2000. i don't want to spend much more than $100, but i want to make sure i get one that will allow me to seemlessly do everything i want (use internet, watch movies through netflix with good quality, hd movie streaming, gaming, etc.). would this netgear one be good enough to handle that? or does anyone have any other suggestions that they know would handle all this? thanks!
mine is setup exactly like this forum's sticky tells us. latest firmware, default settings, then wpa. it has run for months without a reboot except for those pesky power outages. downstairs (the router is on the top story as basements are a bad idea) a simple lenovo y530 with hdmi can play hulu via hdmi to the hdtv. and this with the wifi set to 802.11g mode only. so is that your hd answer? what else? bob
even wireless g is rated more than 4x what you'll get over the internet. n is only going to (potentially) improve lan speed where a wired connection isn't practical.
i have a netgear wndr3700 wireless router that i really like. i had read great things about it, and it has lived up to it's billing. i've had it since about november of last year, and have not needed to touch it since. totally reliable, very fast, and the mixed wireless g and n approach that they have is great. in fact, my daughter is living here with us while she finds her own place after graduating from college and getting a job, and she has her new desktop computer in her bedroom. i just happen to have a netgear wnda3100 usb adapter lying around, and am using it on her desktop (wireless n, 2.4ghz.), and it is just like a hard-wired connection for her. my other daughter has a laptop that uses wireless g, and they can both use wireless at the same time with no problem. i also had some visitors the other day and finally set up the guest network for them in about 2 minutes, and they used that (an ipad and a mac laptop). oh yeah, the wireless is excellent throughout my house, even where i had problems with my old linksys wrt54gs...i've got nothing bad to say about the netgear wndr3700, it has been excellent for me...i had tried a couple of other wireless n routers which had not worked as well, the linksys wrt310n just didn't work right, and dlink dir-655 was fine but not nearly as fast as the netgear, and was a single-band router as well. -roger
they're all good, but i prefer the d-link routers for several reasons that include their performance, their user interfaces, their ease of setup, their versatility, their rock-solid reliability, and most importantly their absolutely spectacular customer support. i personally use a d-link dir-655 which reaches every corner of my rather large, three-story home with excellent throughput. as with most routers nowadays, when wired it serves as a gigabyte switch. i got mine very soon after their introduction over three years ago now and it has never suffered as much as a hiccup requiring a reboot. but understand that any router, even old 80211.g routers (please get an 80211.n -- it really makes an enormous difference), can swallow a 12mbps network connection -- or much faster than that -- without a hitch. your router will not be the choke point effecting internet performance. please note that my preference for d-link in my own home and my recommendation of them to others is what a lawyer would call a &quot;statement against interest,&quot; in that i own stock in cisco, manufacturer of linksys home routers.
i am sorry but.... i would never buy another netgear. i have had problems with mine and the tech support i had with them was horrid! i almost just forgot about accepting the new one and bought a different brand (after hours of trouble shotting...of which they finally decided was defective). it was such a terrible experience i wouldn't recommend them to anyone. i actually had laryngitis when i called and the tech insulted me..and all senior citizens...thinking i was old and incapable. my son also has similar problems with his and has to unplug the router and wireless and plug back in on a very frequent basis.
my experiences was just the opposite of yours. i went though 3 linksys wireless n routers in two weeks and had to reset them every couple days to keep them working. took those back and picked up the netgear wndr3700 router, hooked it up and never looked back. best router i have owned. there are lemons in about everything you buy now, you just have to be lucky and not get one of them and be forced to call their tech support.
an inexpensive alternative would be the netgear wgr614. it's a wired/wireless router, b/g but it cost only $29.99 at my local shack. i had mine up and running w/ 3 laptops and two desktops within 2 hrs. (ok, so i took the long route and maybe did some browsing to 'test' the connection) and there hasn't been a hiccup yet. netgear stuff is fairly solid (imho) and i couldn't beat the price.
example at  sorry i can't suggest that model. bob
