hi gang. my modem de5625 external v90 serial modem worked fine wednesday night when i stopped work. when i attempted to dial my isp friday modem dials and gets as far as verifying password. then it immediately disconnects with a 629 error (you have been disconnected from the computer you are dialing.) i contacted isp and went through all the proceedure with him. nothing worked. i carried this modem to a second machine and hooked it up. same error message 629. i then created a dialup connection to another isp in a different town and got the same error message. i uninstalled this modem and put my old one (hayes 28.8 v34) back in place and it dials and hooks just fine. i then carried the de5625 to a third computer and installed it. diagnostics show modem working correctly however it will not hook to isp on this computer either. it dials in and hooks their modem but doesn't negociate any protocols at their end according to their tech rep. modem is approximately year and half old with no previous problems. anyone have any idea what i need to do to get this back up and running?
try this. carry the modem around and forget where you left it last. get another modem and install that to see if the new modem works. bob
bob what do you have against creative modems? this one has worked flawlessly for almost a year. i know another modem will work as i stated earlier in my post. this modem is still under warranty so i can get it replaced for just the shipping charges. however i would like to find out why it will dial in and hook the isp modem just not negociate the correct protocols to allow it to connect. thanks for replying. james
ge lightbulbs. i had one for about 2 years. nothing i did made it work again. i tried another and it worked. bob ps. parts do expire. the only true test is to try antoher, which you did. if you feel the modem should be fixable, then write that in your post. pps. the most expensive modem i see listed is 25 bucks at  you can waste that much just testing the old one.
thanks, i guess i'm just stubborn. james
