my onboard network interface card hasn't been working for a while. its mac address gets disabled in the bios menu. when i enable it and restart the pc, the bios first shows an error message, which passes too fast to read, and then reboots with the mac address disabled. also, when the pc shuts down, all the keyboard leds remain lit. and if i turn on the pc when the leds are lit, the pc boots but does not respond to anything from the keyboard. if i unplug the pc and plug it again and turn on the pc, the leds are off and the keyboard works fine. now, i am suspecting two things: either the motherboard is dying or my cheap psu (300w peak) is causing issues.  says for my system, the minimum psu power is 282w and the recommended psu power is 332w. can this be a psu problem, or can it be something else?
pushing a power supply is bad luck. and what they don't tell you is that a 300w peak psu will not do 300w for long. also as it ages (just a year) it loses capacity. is there any card or device like some hard drives or a second cd/dvd you can remove to lighten the load? bob
the keyboard problem doesn't occur if i use a usb keyboard instead of a ps/2. i removed the optical drives, floppy disk and pci cards. i left only the sata disk and pcie video card. the keyboard problem didn't occur then. but the onboard nic problem didn't change. the psu is a 5 year old one that came with the aopen case. there doesn't seem to be something physically wrong with the motherboard, at least visually. i'm going to look for a decent psu and then see what happens.
at 5 years all electrolytic capacitors are suspect. that 300w psu is assured to not be able to put out that much. and we are talking about a 5 year old pc so it would be proper to have to disable a balky onboard nic and install some pci card to stand in. however you will encounter tech's that will try anything to avoid that. go figure. bob
i bought a 420w psu and now the keyboard problem is gone. the onboard nic issue hasn't changed. and a day after i installed the new psu a strange thing happened. out of blue, windows stopped responding and the pc started making an incessant beeping sound. so i shut it down using the power button. the next time i turned the pc on the bios stopped loading at &quot;initializing usb&quot; (i looked up the hexadecimal code on the motherboard led dispay). this only stopped happening when i unplugged the printer from usb port. such a thing did not happen again. i'm using the printer just fine. everything seems to be normal. i guess the problem is solved for now.
if you don't use it, why fix it? but pci nic cards are really cheap. bob
